ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery. They have had to wait a little longer for this debate because another debate, in the field of education, has ended. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I know that I have given up 20 minutes' speaking time. I hope I can make it. Today we are talking about amending the Health Insurance Act to include rules on pgb. With this we anchor the right of insured persons with a pgb district nurse care or intensive child care to purchase this care yourself. Let me stress that this is a positive development. It is only the question today whether this bill actually provides for a really good anchoring. The fact that the pgb is included in the Health Insurance Act may be a little strange given the nature of the Health Insurance Act. In fact, the Health Insurance Act assumes that health insurers can buy in and thus organise the market. The fact that the SP is not a fan of the health insurance companies and their position is of course no secret, but I also see that, if you follow the system of the Health Insurance Act, the introduction of a personalised budget with which the insured person buys and orders himself is actually something very crazy. That's why it wouldn't be so crazy not to include that neighborhood nursing care in the Health Insurance Act. It would be much more logical to allow this care to pass through the municipality or to include it in the Long-Term Care Act. We have suggested this before. Today we are talking about an important place of the personal budget in a strange law. That's all because this Secretary of State felt it was necessary to reduce the General Law on Special Disease Costs. He places the holders of a budget for district nurse care in the hands of the health insurance companies and thus also brings them under the control of the health insurance companies. Do the health insurance companies have to decide when people can go to the bathroom? Are we going to let the health insurance companies decide whether they will have enough budget to pay the health care provider? Can health insurance companies simply take a grip on the personal budget if it suits them, for example because they want to cash out their own risk? These are all matters that we need to discuss today. The pgb has become necessary by the decision to bring district care under the Health Insurance Act. This Chamber asked for it unanimously. In times of massive austerity, the VVD and the Labour Party, but also D66, Christian Union and the SGP, were right on the chest: at least the pgb and the right to care were arranged! Whether or not that is true will prove to be the case today. In writing down in law that there is a pgb, but giving the health insurance companies all kinds of means to hollow out or not to deliver the pgb, is not anchoring. The SP wants improvements to be made on at least three points. In the meantime, we have two other improvements in preparation, but I will come back to that. The three points are in any case: no difference in access requirements between insurers for people receiving a pgb, a basic rate for the pgb so that no underfunding can take place and a downward spiral in quality and quantity of care and prevent the budget from being offset against the own risk of the insured person himself or his or her family members. It has been a year since the First Chamber rejected the health care law which abolished the free choice of doctors. This was also done by anchoring the pgb. The pgb was part of that law. When rejected, the majority of the Senate indicated that it wanted the pgb to be regulated in the Health Insurance Act as soon as possible. Yet we had to wait more than five months before this Secretary of State had written a new law. Then a majority in this Chamber found it no problem to deal with the bill just now. It was already on the agenda two weeks ago, but then the VVD found it complicated that a lot of proposals had been made to improve the law. A clear majority had emerged to introduce, for example, unanimous access criteria, which are therefore equal for all health insurers. The VVD found that a bit tricky. I'm going to ask the VVD what she thinks about that. The present law provides for the possibility for health insurance companies to impose conditions on access to the personalised budget within the Health Insurance Act. We now have a year of experience in the way health insurers handle it. That leads to great arbitrariness. If you anchor the pgb, do you have to let the health insurance companies apply that randomness? Healthcare insurers impose all kinds of conditions, especially health conditions. Is care, for example, planned? Is going to the bathroom planable? It seems like a very practical question. Health insurers think so. If you can plan that, no pgb is available. Can the Secretary of State ask the directors of the health insurance companies if they would like to plan their bathroom run for a week? But then they may not go to the bathroom outside of that planning, even if they happen to have been just. It may seem a ridiculous question to the health insurance companies, but they also do it to budget holders; that is how they intervene in people's privacy. I really wouldn't ask at all, because I don't think it's a legitimate criterion. I think it makes sense to consider whether someone is able to manage the pgb, whether someone has the intellectual abilities for that and whether that may have gone wrong in the past. Such criteria should be the same for all health insurers. I have tabled a proposal for this with the amendment to item No. 28. The Secretary of State says he doesn't like it. Actually, I think that's crazy. After all, we know that health insurers are looking at a positive result. I sometimes call that "winning." If there is one thing that is clear, it is that insured persons who are entitled to community care through the regular route or through a personalised budget are more costly than they are to health insurers. Of course, it is very interesting to have an instrument in your hands to keep the insured people who need it out of the door. It's called "risk selection." As a health insurance company, you make sure you don't get those people in, for example by not being attractive enough. That's no way to get those high-priced customers in. And what's also beautiful: they go to the competitor, who has these expensive customers because of it. But if we make the criteria equal, there will be no more distortion of competition. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to accept this proposal. Of course, I think my amendment is the best one, but there are more amendments which propose to put this in the law. In the Chamber we have all been thinking this way, at least in a majority. I therefore assume that these uniform access criteria will simply be introduced. I don't care whether they come from our proposal or from another proposal, but I assume that they will, also because they solve the problem of negative competition between health insurers, which leads to risk selection. We have talked in all the discussions about the personal budget about having a conscious decision-making meeting. I think the introduction to that is a good idea. In such a conversation the applicant of a personal budget talks about the rules and how you meet them in a good way. The health insurer or the provider of a pgb can also assess whether the situation is good for that. Not all health insurers do that conscious choice call. Healthcare insurer DSW will do that. I see that he is clearly more positive than any other health insurance provider about the instrument and about the possibility of providing the pgb. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to ensure that this conscious choice is made by all health insurers. I think that this could be a huge step in the right direction, including for our large offices, not just for the little ones. I can enforce this by motion, but I can also put it into an amendment and get it incorporated into the law. I've got this in preparation right now. So it's not numbered yet. If we really want to anchor the pgb in healthcare, we need not only to ensure that the access criteria are clear and uniform, but also to ensure that good rates are used to buy good and adequate care. The Dutch Health Authority has set a number of maximum rates, but I would ask the Secretary of State if he would also consider a basic rate. We are now seeing situations where too little budget is provided to buy in good care. The rates are now inadequate. Sometimes they're rejected, too. I've already talked about that. Instead of waiting for a monitor or evaluation of this, I would just like to agree that we should introduce a basic rate. That is why I also have the amendment to item No. 29, with a proposal for the establishment of good basic rates. I'd like to get a positive response from the Secretary of State. In yesterday's letter, he rejected the proposal, but I find it very logical. We are talking about basic rates in the Wmo, so let's talk about basic rates for pgb in the neighbourhood care. It seems to be a problem for health insurance companies that it is possible via the pgb that one family member is nursing another. I don't really understand that very well. There are just situations where it really isn't possible to solve it with professional powers, 24 hours a day, seven days a week? If you can make sure that relatives get a high-quality education, you don't have to squeeze it like that, do you? Often they already have these necessary training courses. From that perspective, I also ask for a response from the State Secretary to the assessment of the quality and the possibility of buying this kind of informal care by healthcare insurers Netherlands, but also by DSW Zorgverzekeraar. DSW Healthcare Insurance goes against the big boys' point of view, so to speak. DSW Healthcare Insurance says that it is possible to regulate properly in practice, that it does not harm the quality at all, but that it often benefits, and that it can also be cheaper in this way. Then why would we put that on the spot? It has often been discussed that the pgb should be able to be used flexibly, that you should not have before boarded everything up in budget plans and care plans so that there can also be just living. It is a bit harsh that the pgb is meant to flexibly regulate your care, but is now completely boarded up by the rules that are imposed. In order to be able to get community nursing, it is necessary for the district nurse to come by. It'll determine what it takes. That may not be an hour registration from this Secretary of State, but it is. That indication is made up of minutes. This indication is then converted into a pgb. So there you have the minutes. If you have to answer for that, it becomes very complicated to regulate a flexible bet. You have to write a budget plan on the basis of the indication. So you almost have to describe what you want and when and where you want it. I would ask the State Secretary not to cut off the flexibility introduced into our care by the personal budget, but to introduce it into other forms of care that are not linked to the pgb. The first re-indications have been carried out in recent years. How'd that go? Has the number of reindications increased, decreased or remained the same? We don't know. We hear a lot. We also hear the complaints, but do they really concern the majority? I can imagine that someone who gets more care, me or Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Voortman or the Secretary of State is not going to e-mail. Someone who gets less care will be inclined to do so. I would have liked to have a little insight into that. Is it really not possible for health insurance companies to say what about those insured with transitional rights that they have at a certain point in time and who receive a re-indication? Can they not say whether that number has become more, has become less or has remained equal? I think we're being sent in a little bit with a rug, because that data isn't there yet. Can the Secretary of State make sure that we get an estimate of the number of re-indications this week? Is that more or less? If we can't get numbers, maybe we can figure it out by volume. At least I'd like to know. In preparing this bill, I was surprised that anyone with an indication or a re-indication you need for a pgb... has no opportunity to object if they do not agree with a decision. I've asked the Secretary of State to take care of this. We've had a written preparation for this bill. The Secretary of State writes that if you disagree, you can contact the health insurance company. You can contact the health care provider and ask him for a review: will you please give me care? That's a little begging. If health insurance companies do not then, however, you have nowhere to go. I don't think this is right in terms of legal protection. I am looking at whether I can table an amendment to make the appeal procedure for a pgb neighbourhood care equal to the one in the Long-Term Care Act. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State wants to anchor the pgb in the Health Insurance Act, but at the same time knowingly does not yet make choice calls mandatory, does not regulate basic rates, does not regulate complaints and does not establish fixed admission criteria, then you may wonder whether writing down in the law is actually an anchor. These are points that should actually be necessary for anchoring. However, there are also some issues surrounding the personal budget that undermine that pgb. Nor does the Secretary of State do anything about that. Before I get there, I would first like to talk about subtracting the own risk of the budget allocated to someone for community care. I think it's crazy that the Secretary of State literally states that he's not prepared to ban health insurance companies from taking their own risks from the personal budget. I cannot explain how you anchor the personal budget and at the same time say: the health insurance company can deduct all kinds of money from that. There are examples of cases where a family member's own risk is deducted from the budget of another family member's pgb for community care, because they have a common policy. You can't do that when you have community care through regular funding. I believe that the choice of a pgb should not result in people having less care, because other items have a claim on the same insurer. There is inequality between pgb-funded care and care in kind, but at the same time it is also incredibly crazy, because we have said that there is no real risk for community care. So why would you risk paying for care elsewhere, or subtracting from pgb community care? The Secretary of State says in his reply: this can also be done in a refund policy, so I do not want to make an exception for pgb care. However, the refund policy controls a certain way of financing, namely the ex post reimbursement of care subject to its own risk. That doesn't apply to pgb. That is why it is very good to make that exception. I also ask Members of Parliament to think carefully about this, because I will ask them all how they view it. I would be happy if we could correct the Secretary of State on this point. I was talking about undermining the personal budget system. That's what you do when you make it unnecessarily complicated, so people don't see the trees through the woods anymore. Take the general data management codes, the so-called AGB codes. That's a unique code for the identification of caregivers. It is needed again to show that you buy quality through your pgb. There turned out to be a lot of confusion about whether or not that code is needed to get your pgb through the health insurance company at all. I thought the Secretary of State's explanation was a little limited. Can he answer the following specific questions? How exactly was it explained to healthcare providers but also to budget holders that these AGB codes were needed? Is it true that this information was very limited and came very late? Is it also true that there has been confusion as to where to apply for those codes, which means that a lot of healthcare professionals have applied in the wrong place? Are there a lot of caregivers waiting for that code? Did the 1 January deadline for that code lead to people having to say goodbye to their caregivers? Can the Secretary of State inform us about this? So those AGB codes don't make it any simpler. The more complicated you make a system, the more need arises for mediation and support. And then there's mediation agencies. If something undermines the support for the pgb, then it is that form of mediation. There are incredibly high percentages of the pgb demanded, and it's just cashing. You can walk in when you say: I'm gonna match people who need care with caregivers, and I'm gonna charge 20% of the personal budget for that. I'm not gonna shake 20% off my sleeve, it's just from this government's investigation report. Would the Secretary of State wish to set a maximum rate or a maximum rate that could go to mediation agencies? 5%, 10%; how much would he like to allow? For district care, a discount applies to the sector if too much money has been spent in a year. It's called the macro-management tool. We have already proposed several times that this should not apply to community care, because it is also a right to care. If people no longer receive community care, they will get it elsewhere, and that may be more expensive. The macro-management tool is now also undermining the pgb. An amendment has been tabled by GroenLinks for this debate. It says that we should take out the Market Organisation Health Act. We can't go along with that. This law regulates inter alia that patients should be informed about price and quality of care. This law regulates the development, organisation and supervision of the health care market. If we were to eliminate this law, I do not think we would have any control tools at all for healthcare providers working through pgb funding. I do not think that is what the amendment is intended to do, but I dare say that this amendment could also undermine the support for the pgb. If there's anything that really undermines the pgb, it's fraud. I really won't say that every budget holder is a fraud...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	I would like to respond to what Mrs Leijten said about my amendment. A pgb holder who buys his care is, of course, not a care institution. That is why I said: shouldn't you in this case make sure that there is an exception to that? Now Mrs Leijten says: you should also think about healthcare providers who finance their care via pgbs. If this is what Mrs Leijten is doing and I amend it in my amendment, will that change the SP's view of my amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	In my opinion, the WMG applies only to the providers, not to the budget holders. That would make the amendment superfluous. We have said that we do not want the macro-management instrument to lead to an individual budget holder being told: you have to pay back because too much has been spent throughout the sector. As I read it, the Secretary of State said: it cannot be done. However, it can be done by organisations that provide pgb care, because they are covered by the functioning of the Market Organisation Health Act. I don't think you can agree on an exception for pgb care, because then you get two kinds of care and supervision. I think that is undesirable, because a care institution that provides pgb care often also has a branch for regular care. It would be very strange that one branch has no supervision and rules and the other one does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mrs. Voortman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	Surveillance has to help people. It must help healthcare providers, and it must also help those who need care. If it is true that these provisions are hindering people, is it right that we should consider how we can remove them? 'Cause that can't be the purpose of the WMG, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	I think the WMG can do a lot better. For example, I would not organise care as a market of competing providers. Maybe we feel the same way. However, I am convinced that you have a law that oversees it at this time is that the WMG should not disable the pgb-funded care. We also see that budget holders can sometimes be the victims of an organisation that claims to organise care for them, but does not actually do so. Then the budget holder will have to deal with the damage. Now we have an instrument with which we can intervene, on the basis of the WMG. The negative is that macro-management tool, which means that one organisation suddenly has to pay extra money, because another has spent more. Then you should just take out the macro-management tool, but not the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	I want to talk about fraud, because it undermines the support for the pgb. I would like to talk to the Secretary of State about what happens now if there are suspicions of fraud in an organisation because the health insurance company sees that something is not going well. Then there are currently two routes for the health insurance provider. The first route is to stop paying compensation to the organisations concerned or to the budget holder purchasing from those organisations. Then, of course, such an organization knows that it is underneath the magnifying glass. It could bankrupt itself or shut itself down. The bird has then flown and may start again somewhere else. Then the misuse of the money may have stopped, but the culprit, the perpetrator, has not been dealt with. The second route is that the health insurance company claims to have suspected fraud. Then he lets the money go through to collect evidence in the meantime. But then he leaves a situation of abuse and breaks the law, because he is not allowed to do so. The health insurance company has no investigative powers and should not be given that as far as the SP is concerned. Is it possible, at the moment he has signals that money is not being spent properly, that there is fraud, abuse or exploitation of people who receive their care there, that he says to an investigative body: do an investigation there? We have quite a few investigative authorities in our country: Public Prosecutor's Office, Dutch Healthcare Authority, Inspection SZW, FIOD-ECD. I don't care which one it does. They're all government detectives. That investigating authority can then secure evidence that will allow us to intervene more quickly and stop the abuse, but also to deal with perpetrators. Now it's true that DSW, again the same insurer, has collected a lot of evidence that brings it to the D.A.'s office, but it's a bit shut down there. Then he starts a civil procedure, so outside the criminal justice system, to deal with that organization. I think that's the wrong route. We have to show that we're serious. We stand for the personal budget, but woe to you if you take advantage of it. Then you can count on us. I would like to see the Secretary of State say that this will be a method by which we can really say to health insurance companies: act up, we stand behind you, we do the investigation together with you. Then all these situations of abuse of budget holders, which we all know, which have survived for far too long, are over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	I'll see if you were ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	I was almost at my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u12	I think that the SP and the VVD look at society differently in many areas. At one point, however, we often pull the same string. That's when it comes to fraud and especially when it comes to vulnerable people like people who have a pgb. We've filed several motions on that, and we've been chasing the State Secretary's pants. Mrs Leijten's question is an enlightening question. She actually wants the health insurance companies to report, act, and the public prosecutor to prosecute more quickly in order to really tackle this fraud. Or does she plead for a separate institution, a separate entrance to do so? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u13	If you're gonna press charges, you must have collected your evidence by now. That's the hard part. You can't do that if you want the abuse of money to stop. You don't often have enough evidence. A health care provider can't go to that healthcare provider to confiscate files, because that's evidence. An investigating authority can do that. I suggest that the health insurance company does not press charges, but says: Dear OM, or FIOD-ECD, or whoever it is, I have reasonable suspicions that something is not going well here; do you want to go there with me to see if that's true and if that's the case, secure that evidence? There must be some real reason to suspect. Then there's a faster operation, there's faster intervention if it goes wrong and there's much more chance of getting the perpetrator into the penitentiary. Whether or not he is convicted is ultimately up to the judge and depends on the evidence. That's not up to us either. There'll be a faster procedure. I would like to see the Secretary of State give a positive answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u14	I think we could also be positive about this. However, I think it is important that the health insurance provider does report abuse and the health insurance provider sees it. I believe that these signals are really important, so that the public prosecutor can say: I see that there is often fraud in this area, and we should give more priority to this. I would also like to prevent any report from being made, because it is just necessary to report it from time to time. I do not think it is what Mrs Leijten wants either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u15	Sure. One doesn't rule out the other either, but as soon as you file a complaint, the report is there and the provider can also say: I let myself go bankrupt, I go to another region, I fall under another health insurance company. Then the birdie flew. However, if you say: I am still investigating and I am already involving an investigative body, then if that investigating authority is involved, you run less risk of such a provider feeling and leaving. We've talked a lot about the pgb in this room. The SP believes that the personal budget should be a full alternative to care in kind, but also vice versa. There is also sometimes a personalised budget, because a provider offers no other care than care in budget financing. The Secretary of State would investigate that. He promised me that in a debate that was then about fraud and pgb. I would like to see people who have a pgb also be given the choice to say: I want to get my care through care in kind. What exactly are the obstacles? In which regions of the country does a certain care in kind not exist, forcing a pgb into? The Secretary of State has promised me to put that in order, and I haven't seen any of it yet. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to do that after all. I refer to the example of the mother who wanted to arrange night care for her child through a regular care facility, but who could not manage it with just familiar faces. She'll take care of that herself, through a pgb, and she'll be fine. I think that's a goddess. I really think that a care facility will just fail. Why can't a great institution do what an individual can? Isn't that what a care facility should be able to do? Why can't you do that? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. That mother was forced into the personal budget, as it were. She'd rather not have the red tape. She's taken care of it well now, that's fine, but still: she's actually been forced into a pgb. Finally, I would like to put the key question to the Secretary of State in this debate. Is it his intention to say to the outside world: I have a heart for the personal budget, I have it anchored in the Health Insurance Act, but then I leave insurers all the freedom to refuse people on all kinds of dubious grounds, to set the budget far too low and not to give budget providers, for example, complaints? If he does, he won't anchor the pgb. Then there will be a situation of cowardly politics. The pgb gets a little hollowed out, but yes, he says, those are the health insurance companies, I can't help it. I would find that really very cynical and such cynicism does not belong in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes it is important that we also legalize the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act. Where there is a difference of opinion between the CDA and the Secretary of State, it is the way in which we should do that and how it should take shape. The Council of State is right not to talk about a personal budget, but rather about the ex post reimbursement of community care. So there are two flavors. The question I put to the Secretary of State is therefore: does he have the emphasis on the one hand, namely on the decision-making power of the health insurance companies, the responsibility and the refund afterwards, or is it on the other hand, namely on his own direction, on his own responsibility and on the advance? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to those two flavors. The CDA explicitly opts for the latter, i.e. for its own direction, its own responsibility and also for the concession. That is what the personal budget is all about, and that will not come as a surprise to the Secretary of State. We have already made the point when we dealt with the previous legislative proposal in which this section was concerned with Article 13, the restriction of the choice of doctors, that we think that the personal budget should actually be just pre-emptive. This is separate from the fact that the CDA doesn't think everyone should just get a pgb assigned. But now it looks more like a "no, unless" principle instead of a "yes, unless" principle. That is why the CDA has now tabled an amendment which regulates that the pgb for the care of the district will work again with a preference for its own responsibility. Not everyone is suitable for this and not everyone fits a pgb-jacket, but people should therefore be able to carry out the duties associated with the management of the pgb. Self-direction must really be the starting point. However, the CDA does not see enough of this in the legislative proposal. The Secretary of State has already responded to this amendment from the CDA. He believes that this creates legal inequality between people with a pgb and people who just get care from the Zvw. But I find that strange as a CDA, because we've had a pgb before in the Zvw and that worked with an advance. At that time, no one ever talked about the fact that that would cause legal inequality. The Secretary of State may already know which amendment that is, as I said last time: that was the amendment by Mrs Smilde of the CDA, Mrs Schippers of the VVD, now known as "the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport" and Mr Heemskerk of the PvdA. At that time, no one from the cabinet said that this principle creates legal inequality. Why now? I really do not follow the Secretary of State's reasoning. Does the Secretary of State consider that, in addition to the care in kind in this bill, pgb is also an equivalent alternative? The government states in the explanatory memorandum that this bill is very much in line with the agreements previously made between the health insurers and the government. We have now had a good letter from Per Recht, the association of interests. Per Balance states that a year of pgb in the Zvw has had many negative effects. In fact, we are talking about four problems that are being identified. The first is the flexibility of the use of healthcare providers. It is extremely limited by the health insurance companies. The second is the interchangeability between the care functions and the third is the access criteria for the pgb, which represent a high threshold. A lot of care is described as planable. That even seems to apply to toilets and choke risks, in relation to breathing. I have to say quite frankly that I cannot copy the way Mrs Leijten explained this, but I do see that the same thing is happening: something that you really cannot plan for a week up to a minute is seen by a health insurance company as something that can be planned. That's weird, isn't it? The fourth bottleneck occurs in declaration processes. On these points, Per Balance says that the administrative arrangements made a year ago are not going well. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State on these four separate points what improvements can be made and how the government intends to achieve this. The CDA welcomes the fact that the current proposal has eliminated the exclusion of older people with common age disorders from a pgb. At the same time, however, the Secretary of State introduces a new condition: older people who are no longer able to manage a pgb on their own because of their limitation can only do so if they have a legal representative. But that's cumbersome! This means that in almost all cases the family has to go to court first in order for the older to be eligible for a pgb. It looks like some kind of discouragement policy. The CDA finds it strange that such an exception is made for this particular pgb. In fact, the Long-Term Care Act provides that it can also be done with guaranteed assistance. This is the help of someone who takes on the insured person and is sufficiently likely to be able to comply with the obligations attached to the pgb. That is why the CDA, together with Mrs Bergkamp of D66, has tabled an amendment to align the requirements of the Zvw with those of the Long-Term Care Act. After all, how can we give those people with a pgb the opportunity to do so in the Law for long-term care and not for people with a pgb in the Zvw? If I hear the argument of legal inequality again from this Secretary of State, it will be a bit of a flattened argument. It seems as if the government, with any other legislative proposal on the personal budget, is making other demands. Why is that even so? The core of the personal budget is that budget holders can take care of their needs properly, so that care really fits in with life. Not that life has to be about regulating care; we actually saw a lot of examples of that in 2015. For example, there have been a lot of debates in the Chamber about parents with a child under intensive child care. They would like to arrange that with a personal budget. Does the Secretary of State consider that this is now proceeding smoothly? Parents really ended up in a real administrative maze. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to that. Meanwhile, an intensive child care think tank has been set up, which is working on this. The tricky thing is that this think tank does not have the immediate solutions. The question is, therefore, what else can the Secretary of State do about intensive child care in the meantime? The Secretary of State states that, if the concern of the budget holder is flexible, this can be taken into account in the indication and the budget plan. For example, one week may require more care than the other week. However, think of people who need more care in one quarter, for example in the winter, than in the other quarter. Does the Secretary of State consider that health insurers take sufficient account of flexibility? It can be written into the budget plan, but is there really sufficient financial flexibility after that? The Secretary of State would consult with Health Insurance companies Netherlands and with Per Recht to see if this would be flexible enough in practice. What came out of this meeting? In the explanatory memorandum, the Government states that maximum rates are set for both professionals and non-professionals and that the fees for non-professionals are aligned as much as possible with comparable allowances from the Long-Term Care Decision. This is very official. What is meant by "as much alignment as possible"? Does that mean it's going to be the same, or is that something else? I'd like some clarification on that. Healthcare insurers and Per Balance have also made administrative agreements on which additional requirements health insurers can make; I have already mentioned this. The Secretary of State is very keen on that. He actually says that if it turns out that the parties do not comply with the agreements made, he can lay down the conditions in rules and act really hard. Well, then what are the most important conditions for the Secretary of State that the health insurance companies are not allowed to violate? In fact, I have just mentioned four conditions, which Per Balance says are not very good at all, that health insurance companies do not comply adequately and that they need to be pulled and pushed very hard. What does the Secretary of State think of the most important conditions? What is for him the moment he decides to act and lay it down in rules? There have also been many re-indications in the past year. The SP also made a number of comments on it. We regularly hear stories that a re-indication of the personal budget is a difficult process. The CDA is concerned that many people are losing their personal budget, while they have actually been receiving good care for many years. The tricky thing about this debate is that we will not get the results of the monitor that the Secretary of State is carrying out until April. Then this bill will be somewhere else for a long time. Can the Secretary of State therefore give us an insight into the provisional figures already? How many budget holders have now lost their personal budget? In addition, there are a number of other implementation problems. For example, the Secretary of State states that the declaration code "President," I have to use an abbreviation "the AGB" code, still contains bottlenecks. The Secretary of State would examine with parties whether all these care providers could in practice also obtain an AGB code, otherwise they could not be paid out. It is, of course, important that people are able to get their salaries properly. What is the status of this consultation? And is it feasible? On the applicability of the Health Organisation Act, the Secretary of State wrote in the letter of 20 October that he "will examine, in consultation with interested parties, what requirements are relevant to them and how best to inform them about them." It was a long letter and he had already explained a few things, but some things had to be worked out further. That was about four months ago, so what exactly is the state of play? Is there any doubt or is it now clear how we are going to apply this in practice? Many interesting amendments have been tabled by several colleagues, which, as far as the CDA is concerned, could further strengthen and improve this legislative proposal. I was therefore disappointed when I received the letter from the Secretary of State with the reactions to the amendments. A large number of amendments respond to the desire to improve flexibility and ensure that different forms of care are eligible for a personalised budget and that planning is not poured into concrete as is currently the case. It could probably be an improvement. But what do I read in the comments made by the Secretary of State? He sits at all points at the back with his solutions. What do I mean by that? The Secretary of State is not going to be at the beginning of the solutions by better regulation, but he is going to make sure that the Dutch Healthcare Authority has better supervision. He is going to make sure that there is a better complaints line with the Ombudsman Health Insurance. He is going to make sure that people who have objections can go through proceedings with the Stichting Complaints and Disputes Healthcare Insurance more quickly than people who have other complaints under the Health Insurance Act. But if you're convinced of your own law, then you don't need it at all, do you? Then you say: these problems are not going to arise at all at the back, I do not need to set a complaint line at all and I do not need to speed up the appeal procedure. Then you don't need any of that, because then you assume that you're taking care of it so well in front of you that those complaints aren't going to happen at all and that the Ombudsman will not have health insurance on the doorstep of a lot of people who say they're in trouble. If the Secretary of State is already in mode now that he wants to ensure that everything is resolved better in the future, if there are problems, then I wonder to what extent he himself is convinced that what is now there is a sufficient solution. If it is a good law and if the Secretary of State is confident in its implementation and believes that it will lead to fewer problems, then all the repair measures he is proposing are not necessary at all. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about that. I'll come to a conclusion. The CDA would like the personal budget to be legally laid down in the Health Insurance Act. There's no misunderstanding about that. However, the CDA is keen to see more guarantees for a flexible use of the personalised budget and to ensure that there are access criteria that do not lock the door for everyone, but that as many people as possible who benefit from the personalised budget can better fill in their own responsibility and own direction in their lives. That's what we have the personal budget for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to introduce the Chamber to someone who's had a stroke. He received his personal care and guidance through a pgb through the old AWBZ, now the Long-Term Care Act. This pgb makes it possible for him and his wife to arrange everything themselves, thus limiting the impact on their income. His wife gives the care at times they choose. Luckily, the woman was able to adjust her job to that. I quote from their letter I received. "I need help every day getting dressed and undressed, showering and taking the medication. Together we can decide when I get up, take a shower, go to bed or go swimming. I'm glad my wife cares, I'm not helped by strangers and I'm not dependent on the schedule of home care workers. I can therefore decide when to visit or receive family or friends in the evening. I can therefore decide when I get up in the morning, depending on the activity I have, such as providing information in schools. I'm directing my own life because of this. That's ideal for me." The Secretary of State may also know this letter, because it is written to him. Members of Parliament have received a copy of it. The personal story at once makes clear why the pgb in the Health Insurance Act is so important. The person in question requested a pgb from the health insurance provider, but this was rejected with the argument of planned care. This threatens to put an end to the stable situation for him and his wife with a flexible commitment to care. The health insurance provider's decision cannot be understood, also because the formal rate for personal care is twice as high as that for informal care. As a result, the additional cost for eight hours per week of care comes at almost €8,000 per year. This case indicates how important it is that the pgb is well anchored in the Health Insurance Act. Earlier, we did that with the Wlz, the Wmo and the Youth Act. So this is a good time, although we had to wait for it. Already in 2013, D66, GroenLinks and the Christian Union filed a motion asking the government to anchor a full pgb in the Health Insurance Act. But then you'd have something, too, you'd think. However, the fact that about 20 amendments have been tabled to a bill of barely two A4s is significant. The pgb in the Health Insurance Act does not work in practice, not as we imagined it. In the past year, health insurers and insured persons have already gained experience with a pgb. I see there's a lot of discomfort on both sides. I'll get to that in a minute. The fact that we are dealing with this bill today gives us opportunities to shape the law in such a way that health insurers are able to deal with it and, above all, that the pgb is well available to insured persons. In fact, in the system of the Health Insurance Act, a pgb is not at all self-evident. Everything in the Health Insurance Act is about the contracts that health insurance companies conclude with healthcare organisations. The pgb goes right through here. With the pgb in hand, the client and not the health insurance provider chooses. This makes Zvw-pgb a beautiful but also very vulnerable instrument. I think it is important for the insured person to be able to use the pgb regardless of his policy. Of course, that should also be a full pgb. Key words are: accessible, adequate and flexible. So we don't take care of the Zvw-pgb; it deserves our time and attention. For the implementation of the Zvw-pgb, the current legislation is linked to the system of the Health Insurance Act. This means that there is not really a pgb, but a special form of refund. Where the system of refunds is used, it is not possible for budget holders to receive an advance. How does this relate to the insured person's own direction? And how are flexibility and tailor-made care possible within the current legislative proposal? Does the Secretary of State see the pgb as a full alternative in this way? Or isn't that the point at all? The Christian Union believes that pgb should be a full alternative to care. The alignment of the Zvw-pgb with the Wmo and the Wlz is an important step. The amendment tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Otwin van Dijk regulates this, but also the amendments tabled by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Bergkamp deal with this. Why wasn't it chosen to join the system of the Wlz better? That brings me to the point of access. By numerous messages via mail and social media I was reminded of the limited access to a pgb by health insurance companies. There are also many complaints from Per Recht. Even people who had a pgb under the old AWBZ, without problems and to their full satisfaction, were refused a pgb when transferring nursing and care to the domain of health insurers. I would just like to refer to the case at the beginning of my speech. The most striking thing is that health insurers consider a lot of care planning, for example toilet visit. I mentioned this bizarre example earlier; today it also came to the debate. We received a letter from the Secretary of State in which he writes that he performed a quick scan among health insurance companies. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his willingness to carry out my motion on this subject, but frankly, the picture he sketches in his letter is quite different from what I hear from practice. Is that because eight out of ten insurers have participated and the two I get the most complaints about, isn't it? You'd almost think so. Are the experience stories of insured people all bunny stories? I can't imagine. Per Recht also points out that the four agreed criteria for access to a pgb by health insurers lead to improper arguments for refusing pgb. How does the Secretary of State judge these signals? I think a lot of health insurance companies just have cold feet. This is reflected in the comprehensive documents with additional conditions that they impose on budget holders in order to claim a pgb. Due to these additional conditions, the pgb is so limited that it does not come into its own. In the letter from Zorgverzekerings Nederland I read that the aim is to achieve as much uniformity as possible in the implementation of the Zvw-pgb. There are no criteria other than those set out in the administrative arrangements. How does that relate to the detailed conditions that health insurers can impose, whatever they do frequently? And why is it stated in the law that health insurance companies "have to provide a pgb"? I believe that people should be actively reminded when applying for care that they can organise this care with a pgb. Can the Secretary of State state state whether and where this is regulated by law? Of course, I also look forward to the monitor that will be sent to the Chamber in April 2016. In the meantime, access to pgb should be much better anchored in the Health Insurance Act. There are also a number of amendments on this point. In addition to access to the budget, it is very important that this budget is sufficient for each budget holder. I have four amendments to this point, including one of our own. When I put this bill alongside the other legislative proposals, I came to the conclusion that the Zvw-pgb was written down too much from the health insurance company and the health insurance company, not from the budget holder and the budget holder. From the self-justified importance of cost control by health insurance companies, it has been chosen to maximise the pgb. Together with Mr Otwin van Dijk, I have tabled an amendment proposing not to talk about a'maximised' but about an 'appropriate' or'sufficient' remuneration. In fact, no law states that the pgb must be a maximized fee. Then why are you here? We also know from practice that pgb does not lead at all to more expensive care, quite the contrary. I refer again to the case I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. The pgb simply leads to effective care. A key element of the pgb is that it can be used flexibly. That is why my name is under an amendment by the SGP which clarifies that the insured person can and may adapt the personal budget to his needs, personal characteristics and possibilities. Now I come to the indication. An appointment must be made with a district nurse for the indication. Last year it appeared that in the contracting of district nurses there was insufficient room for indicating and drawing up care plans for holders of a personalised budget. The health insurance companies then decided to make extra space available. I wonder if there are sufficient resources for this year. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about how health insurance companies actively point out to their insured persons the right to specialised customer support? Anyone who states that they want to be eligible for a pgb, is invited to a conscious choice call, so it is written on paper. The Christian Union attaches importance to these talks, because they are important to get a good idea of why someone wants a pgb and to assess whether the client can manage the pgb himself. As far as we are concerned, these conscious choices are the main management tool for health insurers in order to prevent fraud and ensure that budgets are spent properly. As I said, the decision-making process on paper is well organized, but in practice it is clear that this discussion sometimes remains an exchange of papers. All health insurance companies use a form to apply for a pgb. This leads to contact of the health insurance provider with the district nurse or the general practitioner in a number of situations. Sometimes someone is approached personally. Does the Secretary of State have the impression that this is enough for the interview to be sought? Can this make a good assessment of someone's ability to direct themselves? As far as my group is concerned, the answer to these questions is no. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to ensure that a conscious choice is always made when people apply for a pgb. Now I'm going to briefly go into the problems around the ICE. Parents with children with intensive child care in practice find that care is governed by different laws. It is desirable that there should be a claim under the Health Insurance Act and that parents should be able to pay attention in this way to caring for their children and not to the many regulations and administration around them. I know that we will have a general discussion on this, but the Secretary of State may want to respond to it now, because the need is high. The Secretary of State rightly states in his last letter that the Chamber, including my group, attaches great importance to an appropriate and adequate pgb in the Health Insurance Act. The amendments tabled reflect the practical experience of the past year. My group therefore considers it important that a number of amendments be adopted. The State Secretary rejects this route and proposes that the position of both SKGZ and NZa be strengthened. It is understandable that I am very disappointed about that reaction. I have a number of questions about this. There will be a treatment line at the SKGZ for the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. It will also look at speeding up the procedure, both for mediation and dispute resolution. That's fine, of course. As far as my group is concerned, this must be done anyway. People must have a window where they can go if they do not come out with their health insurance provider. But how realistic is it if the SKGZ is committed to this with the current resources available? There's gotta be some real money in there. Will the Secretary of State consult with healthcare insurers in the Netherlands on this matter? I have great hesitation in the second route proposed by the Secretary of State, namely that of the NZa. The NZa must ensure that health insurers comply with the administrative arrangements on the pgb. The NZa must also report on the signals it receives about the pgb. Are insured people really helped with supervision by the NZa, so ex post supervision and a reporting obligation? As I said, all this happens afterwards and meanwhile, insured persons depend on their health insurance provider. Has the Secretary of State actually spoken to the NZa about this route? I have the feeling that the debate that politics should be having here is being moved to the NZa and the process around it. We now have the possibility of carefully anchoring the pgb into the law. Let us seize that opportunity. Finally. It is my great desire that this instrument should become something beautiful, a good opportunity for budget holders to make their own choices when they need care. I do not regard the bumps that have yet to be taken today as insurmountable. Let's find each other by putting the insured person at the center.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is one of the parties that has been committed for a long time to a full-fledged pgb possibility in all healthcare laws. It should be possible for all forms of care to have your own care and its arrangement. The bill, which would regulate the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act, stranded in the Eerste Kamer precisely because of the restriction of the free choice of people. After that stopover, hopefully this bill will reach the milestone to regulate the personal budget in all healthcare laws. There is now an independent legislative proposal on the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act, and not a letter of amendment to another bill that actually limits freedom of choice. This is important to GroenLinks. I really hope that this law will provide a full-fledged pgb opportunity, but I am a little concerned about that. I will explain this in a moment. The vote on the bill has created a unique situation last year. Indeed, experience has already been gained with the personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act before the law that regulates it has been dealt with and passed. This will allow for an evaluation prior to the introduction of legislation. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks back on the implementation of the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act in the past year. Have his experiences in the past year strengthened him in the view that the legislative proposal before us is sufficient and that legal anchoring is necessary? There are still opportunities to optimise the legislative proposal on the basis of experience without a separate legislative process. However, I believe that changes are needed, and that is why I have tabled and co-signed a number of amendments. However, I would also like to hear the views of the Secretary of State. GroenLinks believes that this bill should be the start of a solid and broad personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act. As a result, the personalised budget is regulated for the care that has gone from the General Health Insurance Act to the Health Insurance Act, leaving the pgb option where it already existed. My group believes that we should continue to look at the possibility of extending the personal budget to other health care under the Health Insurance Act. We must be careful, however, that the way this scheme is now implemented does not make it a death home construction for the personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act. I don't think there's any reason to hang out already. When dealing with the previous law, there were doubts about the implementation by health insurers. The health insurance companies have been able to use this last year to demonstrate that they are behind a full-fledged pgb option in the Health Insurance Act, that they want to make it a success and that it is really well regulated. Unfortunately, that is not yet the case; at least that is the impression of my group. The Secretary of State seems to say that health insurers should grow in their role. I would have preferred to have had the debate today with a great deal of confidence in this implementation, because last year the health insurance companies had shown that they could and would have carried out the personal budget. Now that is not the case, with a few good exceptions. In the past year, the combination of care in kind and the personalised budget was not well regulated and health insurers set additional access criteria or applied those criteria very strictly. The monitor on the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act doesn't arrive until April. There are signs that many people who previously had a successful personalised budget will no longer get this in the re-indication of the health insurance companies. So the same concern, another law and then suddenly no more pgb; at least those are the signals. The reaction of the Secretary of State in the note on the report does not reassure me. He says that one health insurance provider is indeed more rigorous than the other, but that is apparently not a problem for him. For GroenLinks it is precisely because equal access should be the starting point. For GroenLinks alone supervision is not enough. GroenLinks really wants to ensure more equal access and implementation of the personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act. We do not want a difference between insured persons, but neither do we want a difference in the treatment of budget holders. The personal budget must guarantee that people can provide their own care if they so wish. That is what this law must guarantee. This also means that the insured person must be at the centre. This possibility is introduced for him or her and must therefore be as easy, as clear and as fair as possible. For all those who need care, the possibilities of having them in their own hands must be right, no matter what law the care comes from, no matter how great the question of care is. People shouldn't have to ask: what law does the care come from, what about my pgb law? For GroenLinks, this means that the pgb arrangements in the various health care laws should be as uniform as possible. Unfortunately, the PGB option in the Health Insurance Act is a strange one in relation to the way it is incorporated into the other health care laws. The Secretary of State states that the system in the Health Insurance Act is such that he wants to provide healthcare insurers with space. But people have to go for systems, don't they? I want to ensure in advance for budget holders that they have equal access. That is what we have regulated in other health care laws, and we must be able to do so here. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Why was it not chosen to join the wordings and provisions of, for example, the Long-Term Care Act? GroenLinks, together with the Labour Party, has tabled an amendment to align the provisions of the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act, so that it does not depend on the law on which people receive care, how many opportunities they have to manage their own care. I explicitly choose to regulate this from the budget holder and the equal access to the pgb in the different laws, not from the health insurance companies and the system as it already is. For me, the guarantees for budget holders are paramount and the system will have to adapt, not the other way around. Yes, there is a lot of resistance among health insurance companies, but DSW Healthcare Insurance is precisely indicating that our proposal is an important addition because of aligning the various health care laws as much as possible. DSW's plea that this avoids the unnecessary burden on insured persons of boundaries between the various health care laws is taken from my heart and confirms my intention that we should look at how we handle it well for budget holders, for insured persons. The system must adapt to that. I understand the proposals of the Secretary of State in which the Dutch Health Authority monitors compliance with the agreements and that people can report there, but that does not mean that as legislator you can also build in really good guarantees in advance. That is what we want to achieve with the amendment by GroenLinks and the Labour Party. GroenLinks wants people regardless of the health insurance provider with whom they are insured to have full access to the personalised budget. That access must therefore also be at the heart of this law. And that's not settled yet. Healthcare insurers are allowed to apply their own criteria, especially on the administrative side of the personal budget, but still. There are several ways to test and therefore exclude people. As I said earlier, it does not reassure me that the Secretary of State does not see any harm in the fact that one health insurance provider seems to be stricter than the other. People can vote with their feet, can't they go to another health insurance company? That is always the reaction of the cabinet. People who want to manage their care with a personalised budget should choose a health insurance company that does it best in their eyes. I think that is too short, because there are a lot of considerations involved in choosing a policy and a health insurance company: the level of the premium, the supplementary package, the health insurance company's services, the image, the care purchased in other areas within the Health Insurance Act and so on. In any case, it is very rare for people with disabilities to switch because it is very complicated for them. If you have tools, you have to turn them in and make sure you get new tools. I call it the setting of all kinds of indications. It is not that easy for a person with a disability to move from one health insurance provider to another. Is equal access to the personalised budget not too important to accommodate in the list of motives for changing health insurance? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Accessibility, so whether you get the opportunity to take a personal budget, must be the same for all health insurance companies. Mrs Dik-Faber said earlier that it should be more of a "yes, if" than a "no, unless." Has the Secretary of State had the insurance policy offered for this year side by side? Is he aware of whether health insurers have actively disclosed the policy conditions relating to the personalised budget? Does the Secretary of State know what the differences are between the health insurance companies or is he going to investigate them? If he doesn't know that, how can he expect that from the insured? The personalised budget and care in kind must be equivalent options. Others just said the same thing. The choice of a personalised budget should be a positive one and should not be made because the care in kind is not sufficient. I would therefore like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State that the personal budget and care in kind are truly equivalent. What he writes about this in the explanatory statement is not enough. He writes that if an insured person wants to use the personal budget, this is possible in principle. "In principle," it says. As far as I'm concerned, the Secretary of State may say a little harder for more equal access. The combination of care in kind and the personalised budget caused problems over the past year, because insurers were not well aware of the fact that this should be possible. Can the Secretary of State explain whether insurers will do this properly and have it properly on the retina? Will this also be included in the monitor that will be released next year? I share the concern that the Market Organisation Health Act may have been a barrier to care purchased with the personalised budget. That is why I have tabled an amendment to exclude those articles which may be an obstacle to the personal budget. At the same time, of course, I also heard what Mrs Leijten said, namely that you do not want to throw away supervision of this right away. That is not my intention. I shall therefore take a very close look at this amendment. It may be that I'm adjusting it, but it may also be that I'm withdrawing it. I'd like to take a closer look at that. Who supervises the implementation of the scheme and who intervenes if it goes wrong? I would like the Secretary of State's promise that he will really play an active role in this. How, for example, is the monitoring of access to the personalised budget regulated? Is the execution of the personal budget also an express task of the Dutch Healthcare Authority? For example, are policies, execution and services tested and enforced? It is also important for the good position of insured persons to be able to check a refusal for justice or at least to have a good objection. Where can people go if they have the idea of not getting a personal budget wrongly? There are experiences of people who have already had a re-indication and I am concerned about that. There would be health insurance companies in which only a third of the people who had a personal budget would still receive it. Does the Secretary of State recognize this image? These are people who successfully had a personalised budget under the old General Law Special Disease Costs Act and who could therefore handle it. Then it's unacceptable that they're losing this now, isn't it? How does the Secretary of State feel about that? The informal rate was not sufficient for certain groups. The Secretary of State says in his letter that insurers have therefore increased the informal rate by a few euros. I find that unclear and it seems rather out of the blue. Have the groups experiencing bottlenecks met with this? How are we going to work towards a good and just settlement? Above all, the budget must be sufficient to ensure that care is properly regulated. This was also discussed in the general consultation in December. Could the Secretary of State give an update on this? GroenLinks considers a fully-valued pgb option to be crucial in all healthcare laws. The personal budget in the Health Insurance Act should not be the weak brother of the other pgb possibilities. As far as we are concerned, this law is still not sufficiently guaranteed. We have therefore tabled amendments ourselves, but will wholeheartedly support good amendments from others that will improve this. We will support any improvement, because a choice for a pgb or for care in kind must lie with the person himself and not depend on the law or the health insurance provider he is insured with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. Last year in this house the AWBZ was lifted. The new Wmo and the new Long-Term Care Act have been treated neatly in the Chamber, but no debate has been held on the transfer of nursing and care, home care, to the health insurance companies. In fact, several requests from the PVV to have a proper debate on this matter have been rejected. Home care could simply be added to the basic package, so were the reactions. The right to care would also continue to exist. However, it was not possible to debate the enormous savings involved and the consequences of this. So nursing and care, home care, were transferred, with all the consequences: client stops at care organizations, waiting lists for community care and, worst of all, stoppages for terminal home care that prevented people from dying at home. All this could have been avoided if we had discussed this transfer carefully. Then the Chamber could have warned about all those things that are going wrong now, because health insurance companies have only one goal: to reduce the cost of care. This change of law is therefore interspersed with mantras of the health insurance companies, such as "directing on self-reliance," "care" and "appropriate use of care." But not only that, the agreements made with the health insurance companies completely hollow out the personalised budget. For example, the health insurers themselves can determine the size of the pgb. So it does not look at what someone really needs to care for, but it is about what the health insurance companies are willing to deliver to care. For example, health insurers may impose additional requirements on the quality of the health care provider, because otherwise they will not be able to control quality or manageability. But isn't pgb just meant for people to buy the care themselves based on quality that they themselves think is best? With the provision of additional quality requirements, the basis is removed from the pgb. For example, AMvB can lay down rules on the amount of the fee. But why wasn't it chosen to set the rates directly? With every health insurance provider, the conditions for the pgb may be different when it comes to the size of the rates. With this change of law, just like with the Wmo, legal inequality is created. As far as PVV is concerned, the pgb must be available to every citizen under the same conditions and not depending on which health insurance provider someone is insured with. Nursing and care are just part of the basic package, right? But unfortunately, the whole decommissioning process is a fact. In view of the situation that has arisen, we want the pgb to be legally anchored within the Health Insurance Act, but decently. That is to say, equal for all, with equal rates, without additional quality requirements and even without a re-indication for disabled people who have had an indication of home care for 10 years or more. These people are dependent on care for a lifetime and are, as a rule, only becoming sicker and more dependent on care, but they are always being re-indicated, need to keep more and more records and have less and less care left. It's driving them crazy! Why is this group not exempted from re-indication in the same way as this amendment of the law? We have tabled an amendment to that effect. I hope for broad support for this. Healthcare insurers increasingly try to force people with a pgb into care in kind by defining everything as "planable care." This even applies to a visit to the toilet, because that is already considered to be planable. This is all done to cut costs. It's cutting back on very sick people! How sick is that, anyway? How far do we go? The PVV wants to maintain the right to pgb and therefore supports the legal anchoring of the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. The PVV also supports most of the amendments tabled, which are almost all aimed at strengthening the right to pgb. But the transfer of nursing and care to the health insurance companies destroys more than we like. It would therefore be better if the Chamber, like the PVV, understood that we should reverse this transfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. A personal budget is the way to direct patients, clients and other stakeholders. Through a pgb people become the client and owner of the care they need, making optimal choice possible. They can select their own care provider and caregiver. D66 is right behind the instrument of the personal budget. Currently there is no legal anchoring of the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. That is what this debate is about. In the summer of 2013, the motion of D66, ChristenUnion and GroenLinks asked for the building blocks of a pgb in the Health Insurance Act. The aim was to make it possible to anchor on 1 January 2016. The Secretary of State also wanted this, but unfortunately it did not succeed. D66 was therefore pleased that administrative arrangements were made to work with a pgb in the Health Insurance Act. As other colleagues have said, this means that we can already learn from practical experience. In April the first results will come to the Chamber. The Secretary of State also sent a letter to the Chamber in which he already gave some insight into the first figures of the quickscan. The extensive evaluation will come to the Chamber later, but I can't imagine the Secretary of State doesn't already know about it. What are the results after one year? A year after the administrative agreement, I hear from all sides that access has not yet been properly arranged. Healthcare insurers interpret the agreements differently. They often say things still have to be crystallized. Eventually, the insured person will suffer. I am concerned about the position of the care user. Where, for example, are you going if the application for a pgb is rejected? Who is the independent third party who can review the application again? In the letter, the Secretary of State points out the possibilities for complaints and disputes. When does the Secretary of State expect the Treatment Directive of the Stichting Complaints and Disputes Zorgverzekerings (SKGZ) for matters concerning a pgb in the Health Insurance Act? It is important that we take care of this quickly. The Secretary of State also says he wants to shorten the procedure. My group finds it unclear how we are going to achieve this together. Is there a need for extra bets? How can we ensure that procedures are speeded up? We all get a lot of emails from people with their practical experiences. We see that the implementation of pgb in the Health Insurance Act still needs to be given due attention. It's like health insurance companies have cold feet, but I think it's really too late for that. The health insurance companies have accepted this assignment. They knew that a large majority of the Chamber wanted a legal anchor. I find it a little disturbing that this is so difficult to do. The disturbing signals are mainly about the way in which the health insurance companies implement the pgb scheme. We recognise that there are also health insurance companies that deal with this a little better, easier and more customer-oriented. The common thread, however, is that there is too much arbitrariness. D66 doesn't want the insured person to suffer. We must ensure that the system becomes and remains appropriate: from systems to people. Therefore, people should not decline because the Chamber has decided that personal care and nursing should pass from the AWBZ to the health insurance companies. After all, people have not asked for this change; the Chamber has done so in a majority. The indication process should be unambiguous and objective. Has a special model been developed for this purpose? I ask this because we regularly get signals that a pgb is rejected under the Health Insurance Act, whereas the applicant used to get a pgb. What's the reason for this? Is this because too many additional requirements are imposed by health insurance companies? We have heard it before, but I really feel that health insurers are hiding behind planned care. My colleague from the PVV just said that even going to the toilet is seen as planning care. People who are at risk of suffocation or who need help with all kinds of things that you are sure you cannot plan, are also told. These people need flexibility. That is why they have opted for a personal budget. That is why D66 supports the amendment which guarantees this flexibility, the amendment in part No. 18, a wonderful amendment. The Secretary of State sent a nice letter about the quickscan he had performed among health insurance companies. When you read that letter, it's like there's no problem at all. We do not yet have the extensive investigation, but the truth will probably lie somewhere in the middle. That is why I am very curious to know what definition of planned care is used by the Secretary of State. How does he communicate it to the health insurance companies? D66 has tabled a number of amendments to increase the synchronity between all care laws in the field of pgb. We have done our best to ensure a proper anchoring of a full pgb in all laws, the Wmo, the Wlz and the Youth Act. Looking at everything and taking into account the practice of the past year, my group can only conclude that we need to make better arrangements. People shouldn't go backwards. That is why it is important that we have some legal safeguards, as in the Wmo, the Wlz and the Youth Act. That is why my group has the amendment to item No. 25, with which we align the access criteria for a pgb in the Health Insurance Act as much as possible with those for a pgb in the Wlz. Other colleagues have also tabled amendments on access criteria. One goes a little further, the other goes a little less far, but this is a clear signal to the Secretary of State that there is a need to anchor that access better and therefore legally. My group believes that these changes also contribute to greater accessibility and clarity for those concerned. People need to know what they're up to. On Monday evening we received a response to our amendments. I was not entirely clear from the reasoning as to what the main arguments were for, for example, against our amendment to item No. 25. The Secretary of State indicated that this would be contrary to the administrative arrangements. That does not seem to me to be a valid argument, because you first have a law and then people make agreements about it. So I didn't think this was the most convincing argument. Why would it be wrong, according to the Secretary of State, to include the access criteria of the Wlz in the Health Insurance Act? I'd like a response. Furthermore, we hear the sound that this would lead to inequality in the position of insured persons. That's impossible, isn't it? If you align the form of delivery and legally anchor the access criteria, does that not lead to equality rather than inequality? In addition, D66 has tabled a number of other amendments, including on independent customer support. The budget for this must be sufficient. D66 also wants the pgb to really be an alternative to care in kind. Who is responsible if in the future there are bottlenecks or uncertainties surrounding the pgb in the Health Insurance Act? Can the Secretary of State explain to my group what this division of responsibility looks like? D66 understands that there has to be control to make the pgb function properly. We are also very much in favour of tackling fraud, because care money must end up with the people who need it. However, some insurers make it very furious with all kinds of rules. The rule pressure is just too big right now. We have indicated this in several debates, but it seems to continue. This also applies to the subject of pgb in the Health Insurance Act. What will this Secretary of State do about it in the short term? We have also asked many written questions about intensive child care. Based on the questions of the PvdA, the Christian Union and D66 there will be a separate general discussion about intensive child care. This also shows that there is a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of ambiguity. Last week we had a nice work visit in which that was confirmed. The pgb within the Health Insurance Act can be used, among other things, for nursing and care that is not accompanied by stays related to medical care. Then we are talking about intensive child care, medical specialist care at home or terminal child care. How do we guarantee quality in these different forms? The quality is also a responsibility. Terminal care may be short-term and unplanned, but the Secretary of State now states that the Pgb in the Health Insurance Act is not initially intended for a situation in which the terminal care demand is in itself and is short-term. This causes confusion in my group, because the Secretary of State also says that it is not intended that the insured person with a need for palliative terminal care may be eligible for a pgb in the Health Insurance Act, even if the care demand is shorter than a year. That seems contradictory. D66 considers that also in the terminal phase pgb can play an important role. If a partner, family member or caregiver can and wants to perform reserved activities, the health insurance provider requires permission from a BIG registered nurse, for example. Some nurses struggle to issue that authorisation, because they are actually responsible for it, but are not involved in the way that care is provided. If no authorization is signed, the patient will not be granted a pgb. That's something we don't want. Does the Secretary of State recognize this situation? What's he gonna do about it? Another question is what requirements a parent and/or caregiver must meet, in addition to a professional's statement, in order to be able to perform reserved actions, as described in the so-called execution request. We understood that some insurers really go far in that and that you almost have to be a professional. There's still a lot in there. How do we deal with that? Don't we ask the impossible? On the other hand, we also want quality to be delivered to informal care. I see from the Secretary of State that he recognizes the other side as well. I have another question on this subject. When we talk about the professional's statement, are there any standards for the implementation request, which comes from the health insurance companies? Or can every health insurance company make different demands again? Let me get this straight. Then there's the usual care. The partner may be the patient's caregiver, for example if the partner has quit his or her job to take care of the other. Of course, there is also the "usual care" factor. How is it handled? Where's the border? I see in practice that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this. I also receive signals that insured people can be given a different indication from different nurses and that there is still confusion as to which care is true. There are still mistakes made, from the Wmo, by nurses and also the CIZ struggles with them. It's hard, because sometimes as a parent you feel you're being sent from the locker to the wall. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. This also applies, for example, to intensive child care. I'd like to get some clarity from the Secretary of State on how he's handling this. A budget holder has to deal with a lot of rates: charging rates, NZa rates, maximum rates and other rates. This is pretty inimitable for the budget holder. D66 thinks it's important that people understand exactly what they're up to. How can we ensure that these things are more transparent for budget holders? Finally. This debate is about one thing and that is the legal change of a full pgb in the Health Insurance Act. My party has tabled a number of amendments to improve this. Colleagues have done the same. I hope that today we can take steps together, because in the end it is about people and they deserve to have guarantees, including in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u21	I have a technical vagueness on the amendment to item No. 30. Mrs Bergkamp's amendment on the application for a pgb states that it should be granted by health insurance companies on request. She wants to add the word "always." The text will then be: "pgb always granted on request'. The explanatory statement to the amendment makes it very clear that there must also be freedom of choice. The insured person must always be able to choose whether or not to opt for a pgb. When I look at how she is changing the text of the bill, I feel that it is not entirely in line with this. I would like to clarify this point, because we both attach great importance to freedom of choice for the insured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u22	I would like to thank Mrs Dik-Faber for asking this question. The aim of this amendment is indeed that there is always a choice for the budget holder for care in kind or a pgb and that the health insurance provider always asks that question. That was the reason for adding that word. Mrs Dik-Faber herself knows that sometimes it is a bit of a struggle at the Bureau of Legislation how to put that into precise terminology. We have come to the conclusion that the question must always be asked and that it must not depend on the insurer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u23	I can imagine that the word 'desired' will lapse in order to achieve this goal. Anyway, that's a technical effect. I noticed that in his response to the amendments, the Secretary of State said that 'desquited' means, as far as he is concerned, that someone does not get a pgb against his will. Of course, we all agree on this. D66 and the Christian Union consider it important that a real choice is always submitted to the insured person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u24	I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber; hence the addition of the word 'always'. Because many of the amendments were dissuaded by the Secretary of State, I was pleased that this amendment was given "Court of Justice'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u25	In all the health care changes we have had, it has been a motion by Mrs Bergkamp that has led to this bill. At the time when the care department goes to the health insurance company, we should also have a personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act. Now we are talking about this anchoring. If D66 walks by now and looks at the law properly, does she think that this is actually an anchoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u26	It's a legal anchor, but I don't think it's a full legal change yet. That is why we have tabled an important amendment, namely in respect of item No. 25. We have indicated that it is important to include in this law the same access criteria as those in the Wlz. We believe that this is an important amendment. It's a legal anchor. I also count my blessings, because there was a time when there was absolutely no need to talk about it. I think there's still room for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u27	You can write down that you're entitled to something. But if a health care provider gets to cover everything up, you might have a pgb. If, however, there is no money against it or if you are allowed to refuse it for any reason, then you have not actually anchored it. If those eligibility criteria are well regulated and are the same for every health insurance provider, is that enough? Or should it be the case that health insurance companies are obliged, for example, to pay a basic rate to prevent you from getting a pgb, but not getting enough money to buy quality care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u28	That is why we have tabled an amendment based on an adequate pgb. Unfortunately, that has not been given a 'judgement chamber'. We did need to translate this through an amendment. It's a legal anchor, but I'm sure I can see opportunities for improvement. That is why I will look seriously at the amendments tabled by my fellow Members, because they have the same objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u29	Madam President. Today's good news is hopefully that after years of pulling and pushing, we are now going to arrange for people in the Health Insurance Act to be entitled to a personalised budget. However, there is not yet an overall hurray vote in the Chamber. This has to do with the feeling that it is not yet sufficiently hard-lined in the law that we have now been given by the cabinet. In fact, it's actually a fairly modest law. More than 20 amendments have now been tabled. That's pretty special. I thought, "Why is that? I thought Mrs Voortman had a nice typography for the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act: a strange duck in the bite. In a way, it is and will remain. You'll also find it in the Council of State's opinion. Health insurers also report it. They wonder whether the instrument of the personalised budget is entirely in line with the Health Insurance Act, which nevertheless concerns private insurance. It's not exactly a spread-out bed in that Health Insurance Act. If you turn in too much on that, you say again on the other hand: now we lose the character of the personal budget; it is the intention that this flexibility, that freedom of choice and that own direction come out well. Then it rightly raises questions as to whether what we see coming back into this Health Insurance Act is still a full pgb. "A strange duck in the bite" may not sound quite nice, but you can also say it a bit nicer. In legal jargon you can solemnly say that it is a sui generis arrangement, which is unique of its kind. With this you have a certain freedom to arrange it as well as possible and as practically as possible. So you shouldn't take too hard the arguments of the health insurance companies that it doesn't quite fit into the system, and that it should actually be something else, or that it isn't exactly the personal budget as it is in other laws. That is both true, but let us highlight the character of the personal budget as best we can in the somewhat special context of the Health Insurance Act and let us turn that strange duck into a very nice sui generis scheme. How could you do that as well as possible? A number of amendments have been tabled for this purpose. I thank the Secretary of State for the written response. It further helps the debates that we can speak very concretely about texts, alternative wordings and adjustments. Of course, they also stem from the needs of the past period when in practice this personalised budget has been worked out in the Health Insurance Act. This led to the necessary complaints. Many people who need care have simply experienced it as too rigid, too inflexible and too little security. We have heard the examples of this afternoon around planned care and such. There's a little tension in it: how much direction does the health insurance company have and how much direction do the people who need care? That's inevitable. When it comes to how to do things better, our sympathy lies mainly with those who need care, with the character of the personal budget. All this must of course be conditional on the fact that the drafting of amendments is not such that they can all have financial consequences which make it impossible to manage. We also attach this financial solidity as a prerequisite. As far as we are concerned, it certainly does not have to be at risk with many of the amendments that are now before us, especially when you hear in practice that cheaper variants of the personal budget have not been met by health insurers. In doing so, the argument of cost control has not been leading, but rather a lack of flexibility to respond to the needs of the people who need that care. In short, and well, I would like to explain my own amendments tabled with others. Of course, other Members do so for their amendments. For the sake of clarity, I will focus on these amendments. First of all, that is the amendment to item No. 11 that actually says: you should clearly define clear access criteria for General Measure of Governance. That is our proposal. This can also provide more legal certainty. We have tabled this amendment with Mrs Voortman to ensure equal access to the Zvw-pgb for all insured persons. Contrary to what is said in the response to this amendment, my group believes that this is not a very far-reaching amendment which makes the law very different and does not limit customization. It offers more clarity and clarity, so that everyone knows where they stand in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u30	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij on that point. The amendment in part No. 11 is a good amendment providing better legal guarantees for people who need a personalised budget. I do have one more question about it. The applicant talks about clarifying the access criteria and providing more legal certainty. One of the problems that I, as a CDA, run into and which many budget holders face, is that there is zero flexibility in what is planable and non-planable care. Some health insurance companies explain that incredibly strict and rigid. Are planning and non-planable concerns also part of this amendment in the sense that there should also be legal certainty about this and that those very strict requirements should not be used, such as toilet corridors, which Mrs Leijten talked about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u31	I do recognize that as an important bottleneck, so the answer is yes. In line with this amendment, it would certainly be necessary to clarify what is meant by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u32	I recognized Mr. Van der Staaij as a lawyer again with his sui generis. The last time I heard that was in the university banks, and it's been a while. Does this mean that he also intends to obtain in the Health Insurance Act the broad access that exists within the Long-Term Care Act when it comes to planning and non-planable care? How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u33	I agree. I can confirm that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u34	This amendment by the SGP and the GroenLinks Group is certainly a step forward in relation to the current law because it allows for a decision on a General Measure of Governance. This amendment says that we are in any case going to work with a General Management Measure to establish the access criteria. Why does he want to regulate this in a General Measure of Governance and not in the law, as we did in the Long-Term Care Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u35	The argument to opt for a General Management Measure here is to connect to the system in the proposal as it stands. There is indeed a possibility in that. By choosing to record it in a General Measure of Governance rather than in the law, you have a little more flexibility and can adapt things more easily if needed in practice. In this context, there is still a lot more to be done than by formal law. This gives you a little more flexibility to adapt things to practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u36	I understand that, but we already have a year of experience with the PGB in the Health Insurance Act. We see that there is a lot of discussion about access. The Long-Term Care Act clearly sets out the criteria. So why should we not anchor this in the law for a piece of legal certainty for insured persons? At the Wlz we did and it works well. The Health Insurance Act makes a different choice. I don't quite understand that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u37	I understand the question, but connecting with the system in the present legislative proposal and more easily than being able to respond to the practice through a more cumbersome legislative amendment are important arguments for me to choose this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr Van der Staaij has played an important role in dealing with the UN Convention on People with Disabilities by building a bridge between two extremes, I remember. That is how I interpret his amendment to regulate it through a General Measure of Governance, because there is a lot of commotion about including access criteria in the law. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber's questions: would that not be better or did the SGP Group opt for the most politically-strategic scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u39	It was not so much the idea that the law would actually be the most beautiful, but if it had to be an AMvB as a kind of intermediate variant. But the first thought to do so was indeed that it would be possible to make more sense of the proposal as it was there. Furthermore, a more detailed elaboration of the requirements to be met is not surprising to think of an AMvB. So I didn't think right away: that should be regulated by the law. To be honest, I was thinking of an AMvB rather than the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mrs Bergkamp, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u41	Does this also mean that the SGP will not support amendments which include these access criteria in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u42	This is how I defend it and put it in. But, of course, I am listening very carefully to the discussion that continues on this subject. This is not a point cast into concrete for me. You can also say "by or by" and it can also only be "by"; in it all kinds of variants are possible. The most important political issue for me is whether you want to do private law or public law. I think that is the most important point. To be honest, at what level is this taking place, I find it of minor importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u44	Flexible organisation of care, so that it matches the life that people want to live, is the essence of the pgb. That seems obvious, but you will hear that in the past period the people who need this care run into barriers in practice. In the amendment to item No. 18 is therefore clarified that the insured person can and may adapt the pgb himself to his needs, personal characteristics and possibilities. Non-limitative is, for example, about the possibility of shifting between forms of care, such as nursing, care and other services related to community care. Furthermore, I call it being able to absorb peaks and decline in care needs throughout the year. I welcome the positive opinion of the Secretary of State on this amendment. Moreover, I do not recognise the fact that the example of the explanation of the shift between the forms of care would not be a good example. Although in theory it is true that the pgb in the Zvw is only about one form of care, namely nursing and care, you hear from the practice that there is indeed a very detailed examination of the number of hours of nursing or care and that divisions are created. That's exactly what we're trying to prevent. Hence this amendment. In addition to the proper regulation of access criteria and flexibility, the SGP also considers it very important that the budget is guaranteed to be sufficient to purchase the necessary care. This makes the pgb really a full alternative to care in kind. Together with Mrs Bergkamp, we have tabled an amendment which regulates the level of pgb to be sufficient. The Secretary of State advises against that amendment, because it gives the impression that it is intended to provide a broader explanation than is already guaranteed by the obligation of care, which presents a financial risk. I would think that the explanation of the amendment on this point is clear and that precisely the legislative text on this point is brought into line with the Wmo. I'd like a response. Where you do different in the pgb-shape than in other laws, that again raises the question of whether it is qualitatively less or different. That is why we have a duty to motivate that well wherever we do it elsewhere, does not want to be misinterpreted. The amendment in part No. 14 refers to the possibility of additional payments. Insured persons should be allowed to pay for themselves if the rate of the healthcare provider they want is higher than that proposed by the health insurance provider. I am pleased that the Secretary of State leaves the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. We think it can really play a useful role, because we have heard several times in recent years that insurers completely refused a pgb if care with pgb was more expensive than contracted care in kind. That is why we also need to express this explicitly in this way. I have two further questions which do not relate to the amendment, but which have been raised by us because we want to know what is happening. The first question concerns payment of wages in the event of illness. Who is responsible for this in the case of a personal budget? Is that the patient or the insurance company? The second point is the pgb for restitution. Why not pay in advance for the purchase of insured care? Isn't the current way of regulating it through refunds not a threshold for low-income people? Finally, for the sake of clarity, I would like to join Mrs Bergkamp's questions on what scope there is for the personal budget for palliative terminal care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. If you need care, you'd like to keep a grip on your own life. You want to decide when to get up, decide who comes to your body and who is close to your seriously ill child. For that it is important that you have a grip on the care you need. Many people arrange that with a healthcare provider nearby via care in kind. That's fine, but a large group of people prefer to take care of themselves with a personal budget. The PvdA thinks the pgb is an incredibly beautiful way for people to organise their own care. Maybe it's just in care of your body, nursing and care that it's important that you take care of it yourself. The PvdA therefore wants to lay down the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. With the pgb in Zvw we have finally laid down the pgb in all care laws and that is a special moment. Over the past few years, I've talked a lot to people who take care of a pgb. I'm thinking about that student with a high spinal cordial who lives in a dorm. He hires partly professional nurses with a pgb, but also uses part of his pgb to hire fellow students from time to time. They do a lot of volunteering for him, by the way. I am also thinking of parents of children who need intensive child care. Often a seriously ill child in the house is already quite complicated. Then it is important that you can read and write with the nurses who come over the floor, so that you have a normal family life. With a pgb, it's up to you. I am also thinking of care cooperatives, which are sometimes regulated by people putting their pgbs together. For example, people who often need even very intensive care can just stay in their own village and do not have to move to an institution in a city down the road. What's this showing? As far as the PvdA is concerned, the pgb must be properly arranged, because it gives many people exactly the care that suits their life and they can organise that care themselves. It's about nursing and care. Take care of your body is care that comes very close to someone. We now have a year of experience with the pgb by health insurance companies without having a legal basis. Mrs Voortman said that we now have an opportunity to evaluate something before it is a legal provision. That's special. This allows us to experience what is going well and what we need to do better than is the case in today's practice. I hear positive stories, but I also hear problems that need to be solved. In this context, I would like to address three issues. How do we ensure good access to pgb in the Health Insurance Act? Is the level of the budget sufficient, is the money you get enough to buy care? And how do we ensure that there is sufficient flexibility? I will start with the question of how we properly regulate access to pgb in the Health Insurance Act. For the PvdA, care in kind and pgb are equivalent alternatives. However, you can now see huge differences in the way in which health insurers award or reject pgbs. One health insurance provider simply assigns the pgb when someone explains why the pgb is so important to him or her, while the other health insurance provider is very reluctant and almost rejects any request, even from people who have been organising their care with a pgb to their full satisfaction for years. Obstacle is the word "planable"; we have heard that many times today. If care is planned, a pgb would not be necessary. That's bullshit, of course. Moreover, toilet visits are already considered as planned care by some health insurers. From Per Balance's letter, we understood that in some cases even the risk of suffocation or choking is considered to be planable. With the greatest imagination, you can't call that a planable concern. Of course, we cannot accept such differences between health insurers. The official monitor doesn't arrive until April. However, there are already numerous signs and examples of strange rejections of pgbs and of large differences between health insurers. Does the Secretary of State recognise these differences in the granting of pgbs? And how does he feel about that? Like the PvdA, does he think that's undesirable? And how does he feel about some insurers excluding planned care from a pgb? As far as the PvdA is concerned, we record clearly when you are or are not eligible for a pgb. That may, or may even have, be strict in the front. You have to be able to manage a pgb. In the Wmo, the Youth Act and the Wlz, we have now defined the access criteria for a pgb. Then it makes sense to do the same in the Health Insurance Act. It's clear when someone's entitled to a pgb. It creates certainty about access to the pgb. People should also be reminded of what a pgb means, so that they can also make a conscious choice in that conscious choice conversation. Healthcare insurers will then no longer be able to impose additional requirements in their regulations. Moreover, the advantage is that you create coherence in legislation. This was also mentioned as a major advantage in the letter from DSW. If different laws always apply different rules, it is not useful, not for people, not for executive bodies and not for an integral pgb. However, I read that the Secretary of State is not advising on the amendments which regulate this. Can he explain why? Then how does he intend to regulate equal access to the pgb? I think that the accelerated complaint handling via the SKGZ mentioned in the letter of the State Secretary is a good suggestion. For insured persons it is more quickly clear whether or not a pgb has been rightly rejected. I'll ask the Secretary of State how he's going to design that accelerated route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u46	I still have a question about the access criteria. You say very clearly that we cannot actually accept differences. You also do not want any additional requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u47	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u48	I have also seen your amendment. We know that arguments are being exchanged in a debate, but we also know that there are a lot of conversations around them. Is it true that the VVD has threatened to block this bill if stricter rules are imposed on health insurers, for example that they should not apply additional admission criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mrs Leijten is asking the wrong person this question. She's standing next to Mr. Potters now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u50	It's gonna be your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u51	I know it is unusual, but otherwise I would almost say: ask Mr Potters this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u52	We stand side by side with the interrupting microphones, but that doesn't say much about the positions at the moment. I'd like to know how hard this is. When we discussed the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, we saw that it suddenly became very exciting and that it was not clear whether it was going to happen or not. I'd like to support you. I'd like to see how we can materialize this anchor. I also wonder whether it would be an anchoring if we did not lay down better criteria, for example by law, by means of an additional provision or under-provision or whatever form. You have tabled an amendment to that effect, and the Secretary of State advises against it. That is a situation we know from the handling of the UN Convention. How did the VVD respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u53	I have the advantage of being one of the later speakers in this debate. All previous speakers felt that access to the pgb should be better regulated, whether by law, by AMvB or whatever. That is what I am taking on board in this debate. As far as that is concerned, I have been in the Chamber for three to three and a half years now and, well, it was more common for this Secretary of State to advise against an amendment. I remember an amendment tabled jointly with you on an overhead standard in healthcare. That was voted on and unfortunately we lost it that time. I didn't like that, but that's how it happens in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u54	I also have a question about this part of Mr Van Dijk's contribution. The Secretary of State advises against the amendment on access criteria, in part No. 23. He doesn't do that with a light attitude, with words like "gosh, I don't really agree." No, he's giving us some serious advice in our view. He says: it is contrary to the structure of the Health Insurance Act, and that is why I must strongly discourage it. I would also add that it is contrary to what we agreed in the coalition agreement, namely that the key role remains with health insurers. I also hear Mr Van Dijk say that he wants to listen carefully to the Secretary of State's argument. I'd like that, too. It's always good to know what the Secretary of State is up against. Does this mean that Mr Van Dijk says, when the Secretary of State, who strongly discouraged this, comes up with good arguments: I want to anchor this better, but I think the words that the Secretary of State chooses are sufficient? Or does Mr Van Dijk insist on this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u55	We are currently holding a debate in which the government's own proposal already makes it possible to set conditions for access to a pgb in the General Measure of Management. So the possibility already exists legally. So I do not see the struggle with the systems of the Health Insurance Act as such. I think it's possible; it's in the government's own bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u56	Finally, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u57	I sometimes do, that I see things differently from the cabinet, but the advantage of a debate is that we can convince each other. My question is very simple: are you going to be convinced by your own Secretary of State that it might be better not to, or are you going to stick coûte que coûte to this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u58	In my view, Mr Potters cannot deny that the main thrust of this debate so far is that access to the pgb should be better regulated. Whether we do that on the left or on the right, I will almost be concerned to speak in Mrs Leijten's words, but that access should be better regulated is as clear as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u59	We all agree that access should be regulated as clearly as possible. That is why we have all looked very carefully at the law: should it perhaps be better than what is now lying? Mr Van Dijk and I tabled this amendment on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u61	The question is, Mrs. Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u62	A very wide-ranging exchange of views has thus already taken place. Of course, you always listen carefully to the arguments of the cabinet, but this amendment has not been tabled rashly either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u63	No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u64	That was a statement by Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u65	...I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u66	I don't have a statement, but I do have a question. The amendment we are talking about actually contains three things: access criteria, concessions and administrative procedures. With the latter two, I can imagine that they are in breach of the system of the Health Insurance Act. I believe that the subject of the access criteria is widely shared. Is there room for variation in your amendment? Or do you say that I stand for all three things in my amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u67	Of course, you use the Secretary of State's debate and argument to listen carefully: why is anything discouraged or left to the discretion of the Chamber? I do, however, share Mrs Bergkamp's view that the administrative procedure and the consultation are not the key points. So I am convinced that it might be better to do this differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u68	Finally, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u69	I think it's fast. Mr Van Dijk seems a little convinced. The most important thing, therefore, is that at least we anchor the access criteria well in the law. That's what the PvdA stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u70	I believe that in all the debates so far I hear from all the speakers that the Chamber wants something with the access criteria. Yeah, that's what I'm standing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u71	There was a brief discussion on how the formulation of the access criteria in the law relates to the system of the Health Insurance Act. Now we have received a letter from a smaller health insurance company, DSW let me mention the name of the person who thinks this is quite appropriate and can also be done with this. I also saw the letter from Health Insurance companies Netherlands. It really wants to standardise the criteria so that they are drawn as much as possible. If I put these two letters side by side, does Mr Van Dijk feel strongly that this does not go against the system of the Health Insurance Act and that we, as politicians, can actually decide to lay down access criteria in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u72	I think the letter from DSW is clear. DSW even makes a plea to promote synchronisation between laws. That is indeed a support to have the access criteria clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u73	That's clear. I hope that one of the conclusions of the debate will be that the access criteria will be clearly defined, because that is now incredibly much of a discussion. I also hope that the argument that it does not fit in with the system of the Health Insurance Act will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u74	We all share that in the Chamber. This is about the search of systems for people. Of course you have to keep an eye on the system, because if it eventually becomes such a mess that no one can deal with it, we won't get much further either. In the end, the question does prevail whether we are helping people in a good way. We must also ask ourselves whether we are choosing a system to do so and let ourselves be convinced of it. Mrs Bergkamp also asked me a few questions in that connection. How do we ensure that it is easy and appropriate? I am also somewhat in agreement with what Mr Van der Staaij has said about this. We should not commit ourselves at once, but let us work together to find the most appropriate solution. However, we share the view that we need to do something about access.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u75	The amendment by GroenLinks and the PvdA is interesting, because it provides some solutions to the problems. There are three elements in this: the access criteria, the advance and the administrative procedure. We have just had an exchange of views on the matter, because it is a bit alien to the Health Insurance Act. But frankly, a lot of health insurance companies favour hospitals and also all kinds of other health care institutions, because they do not have enough money at certain times. Why should hospitals be entitled to that and not budget holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u76	That's an interesting question from Mrs. Bruins Slot. May I pass it on to the Secretary of State on behalf of her, so he can answer it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u77	That seems to me fine in this case, because the Secretary of State also sees this as one of the objections. The second point that struck me in Mr Van Dijk's speech was that he was actually okay with the Secretary of State speeding up the complaint procedure. I very much feel that it is a good thing that the Secretary of State is trying to prevent accidents rather than sticking plasters. Doesn't Mr Van Dijk himself feel that it hasn't been fully settled, if the Secretary of State is already in the process of sticking plasters by speeding up complaint procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u78	The better you deal with it in terms of legal certainty, which Mr Van der Staaij also talked about, the less complaint procedures you need. That is what Mrs Bruins Slot and I agree on, because that is how it works, of course. However, there will always be situations where the access criteria in the Wlz, to which reference is now made, are strict. That's right, because you don't want people to get a pgb if they can't manage it. Of course, disputes can always arise as to whether or not a pgb has been accepted or rejected. If you are trying to improve or speed up that complaint procedure, after all, we have heard that some procedures may take up to nine months, or make a separate complaint line, that seems to me to be an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u79	In Mr Potters' interrupting, there was a small difference, namely that this was also contrary to the coalition agreement. I couldn't help noticing that. I do not interfere in the relationship between others in this case, because I am not a party to this, but this can of course have an impact on the speedy handling of this legislation. How does Mr Van Dijk see that? Does he simply support amendments which are contrary to the coalition agreement or does he see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u80	I see this differently. Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij could also put this question to Mr Potters. The coalition agreement does not mention a Zvw-pgb. This is because, during the debates on the reform of long-term care, we have gradually chosen to transfer care and nursing to the Health Insurance Act. Both the First and Second Chambers have unanimously said that a good pgb should be provided for in the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you for this response and for the good suggestion that the question should be put to Mr Potters as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u82	In the area care and care we are away from a central nationwide indicator office. That's good. Neighborhood nurses can decide for themselves with their clients what care is needed. You're just gonna do that together in a good meeting in the neighborhood. However, the district nurse also indicates for a pgb. How do we ensure that this is done in a good way, in which the district nurse is not instructed by a home care organisation to push as far as possible towards care in kind? How do we make sure a client knows what his rights are, that he or she knows that a pgb is just possible? What measures does the Secretary of State take to ensure this? Especially in the case of intensive child care, we see that children's nurses from home care organisations often hardly indicate a pgb, but more for care in kind. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? As a parent, you need to be able to opt for intensive child care through a pgb, precisely because you need to be able to coordinate care for your sick child and family life as much as possible. Is it possible that a pediatrician or a paediatric nurse from the hospital can take a look and advise on an intensive child care pgb? Intensive child care is always about children who are also under the control of a pediatrician in the hospital. Then the level of the budget. With the budget you get, you have to be able to hire the care you need. If your health care provider is giving you too low a budget, your pgb is no good. I hear several reports about that. Some health insurance companies give low amounts of money, that it is difficult to buy in good care. Other health insurance companies take care of it fine. What freedom does a health insurance company have to determine the level of the budget? That's got to be based on something, right? The rate that parents with a pgb can declare for intensive child care is sometimes only €53 per hour for a professional nurse. In the case of care in kind, this is €77. That's a big difference, which isn't market-based. What's that big difference based on? Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA that in this way a pgb and care in kind are not equivalent alternatives? For the PvdA, this uncertainty about the level of pgb tariffs has certainly been a reason to endorse an amendment by Mrs Dik-Faber. That amendment states that a budget must be appropriate. From the letter from the Secretary of State, I understand that the deletion of the word "maximised" from the law no longer constitutes a budget and therefore no longer a pgb. That is not the intention, of course. Can the Secretary of State explain again exactly what this is about? 'Cause then we're gonna have to take care of it differently. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that pgb holders receive a budget that is appropriate? A special rate is the household care rate. The PvdA considers it important that people with their pgb can also hire non-professional caregivers, for example a partner, family members, neighbours, friends or studymates. I gave an example of that. It is, of course, reasonable that there should be a different rate for this: the household care rate. It matters whether you hire a professional or someone else. Research by Q-Consult shows that the household care rate is sufficient in practice for most budget holders. It's considered fair. However, two situations are identified in the investigation where the tariff may not be sufficient. This is an auxiliary worker with a contract of employment who works for more than three days and for whom the budget holder has to pay employers' costs. In addition, these are aid workers who work for budget holders with high-complex and intensive care and who are equipped to provide this care. Recommendations have been made by Q-Consult specifically for these two groups. In his response to the report, the Secretary of State indicated that he would like to investigate these two categories further. When will that further investigation be completed? When can he inform budget holders and the Chamber about this? My third issue is about flexibility. The core of the pgb is that you can decorate your care as you do. Flexibility, then. Then it doesn't fit that you have to come up with detailed care plans, which describe per minute when you need what care. I think it's about describing what you need care for, the purpose. This can also vary from one period to another. One week you sometimes need a little more care because you are sick for example and the other week a little less. That flexibility should be possible, as long as you just stay within the maximized budget. What is the Secretary of State going to do about the requirement of health insurers that sometimes very thick care plans should be drawn up? Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA that it can do a bit less? How's he gonna do that? The PvdA has endorsed Mr Van der Staaij's amendment which provides for a budget holder to be able to use his budget as appropriate to his personal circumstances. This offers room to buy in a bit more care in one period and in the other period less. As I mentioned earlier, you can buy some extra care if things are less good for a while, and you can buy less care if things get better. The Health Insurance Act currently only knows the system of inclusive rates. This means that travel expenses, employers' expenses, holiday allowances and other allowances cannot be paid separately by the budget holder to the healthcare provider. Fortunately, Mr Van der Staaij's amendment creates that space. Earlier, I asked Chamber questions about health insurance companies. Those require that declarations are submitted for every five minutes of care delivered. But didn't we want to get rid of the stopwatch? Some budget holders do not hire their caregivers per hour or per minute, but agree on a fixed monthly amount. It's gotta be possible. In reply to my questions, the Secretary of State indicated that he felt the same way and that he would discuss this with health insurers. What is the result of that? Is it fixed now? Is it possible to declare a month or periods other than five minutes? There are also people who use part hours for their care with a pgb and part care in kind. Those are people who, for example, use the care of a home help organisation during the week, but want to hire family or friends with a pgb on the weekends. I notice that this is sometimes difficult in practice. I assume that this combination between care in kind and a pgb is also explicitly possible for nursing and care. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's confirmation. Mrs Dik-Faber has tabled an amendment to this point in order to make it explicit. In intensive child care, parents often rely on the Health Insurance Act and the Youth Act for the care of their seriously ill child. I have also understood that sometimes attempts are being made to pass seriously ill children on to the Long-Term Care Act. I think bureaucracy between different laws is the last thing parents are waiting for. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA that it is important for seriously ill children and their parents to have the necessary care fully regulated, such as care care, transport and continuous residence? That prevents a lot of fuss and frustration, time that holders can better spend on their children. Last Monday Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Dik-Faber and I visited the Radboudumc. That was about intensive child care and parental participation. Here, too, the discussion about the points of contact and the ambiguity that sometimes arises as a complaint came to light. How will the Secretary of State arrange for this to be made easier for parents? Soon we will have an AO intensive child care and we will discuss this further. Mr President, I will conclude. The PvdA is pleased that with recording...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mrs Leijten, can you hold off on your interruption until the end of Mr Van Dijk's speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr. Chairman. I have a very short final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u85	You've been through your scheduled time, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u86	I saw it, Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is pleased that with the inclusion of pgb in the Health Insurance Act, the pgb is finally laid down in all health care laws. With the strengthening of the Chamber or the wishes for it, the Zvw-pgb also becomes a full pgb. This allows people to control their own lives and care. As a student, parent of a seriously ill child or older child, you can simply live the life you want. And that's how it's supposed to be!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u87	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u88	I have a question about another possible financial threshold or at least about the inequality between people with an indication of neighbourhood care in kind and those who receive care through the personal budget. That threshold is that the health insurance company may deduct its own risk from the outstanding budget. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u89	I heard Mrs Leijten say that in the first term, and I find that strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u90	I hope, therefore, that the Labour Party will take a serious look at my amendment to item No. 27, because that's where I cut off the pass. I don't think you should confuse those two things. There's a reason we agreed that there wouldn't be any personal risk to community nursing. Then it is not right that people with a budget policy can be faced with deduction of their own risk of care that they have needed elsewhere in the Health Insurance Act. I will ask the PvdA in second term what she thinks of my amendment. I hope for support, because in this way we can correct an administrative omission in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u91	Of course, I am prepared to take a good look at Mrs Leijten's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr. Chairman. This bill aims to anchor the personal budget also in the Health Insurance Act. In this way, the health insurance policies include the possibility of offering a pgb for a defined target group for the claim to community care. Let us be clear: the VVD is a supporter, a strong supporter of the personal budget, because that allows people to make their own choices about the care that suits their needs and needs. Due to the reform of the AWBZ and the corresponding transition from the district care to the Zvw it is logical that the pgb is now also offered in the Health Insurance Act. Rules can also be drawn up through an AMvB on the level of the reimbursement for care and the conditions under which an insured person is eligible for a pgb. People with a natural policy thus retain the opportunity to choose which healthcare provider they purchase their care from. They will receive a maximum remuneration for this, so that it is a budget, as in the case of refunds. We have just discussed it. For example, it may be a certain amount for a given period or a number of hours at an adequate rate. Since January 2015, the health insurance companies have already implemented the Zvw-pgb on the basis of the administrative arrangements made, despite the absence of legal anchoring. And although it is not strictly necessary, it is good to anchor it now. That is what the VVD has to do. The pgb becomes part of the system of the Health Insurance Act by anchoring it. The Zvw's system remains untouched. That is how the agreements are; I have just referred to them in my interruption towards Mr Van Dijk. We are therefore pleased with the Secretary of State's opinions on the many amendments, because they support this line. In addition, in recent years we have also seen that, on the basis of the agreements between VWS, Per Recht and Zorgverzekeringsverzekerings Nederland, health insurance companies have started to work with the pgb in the Zorgverzekeringswet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mr Potters pointed out that the system of pgb remained untouched. Is that what he meant when he told Mr Van Dijk that our amendment was contrary to the coalition agreement? In that case, he will have to explain this a little more, because I really do not know why our amendment is contrary to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you for this question. It's good to explain this. The government agreement clearly states that the key role of insurers will be maintained. Our concern is that if you legally anchor all access criteria at the front, as is perhaps customary in a public law such as the Wlz, you undermine the role of health insurers. This is also supported by the Secretary of State's opinion. The tailor-made provision that health insurers can and could provide is affected and we do not want that. The Health Insurance Act is a big asset in the Netherlands. There's a reason we're number one in the world when it comes to care. I think it is important that we maintain this system, as well as the key role for health insurance companies, in which they can offer the customization they have always offered, based on their duty of care. Let us be clear: they must comply with the duty of care. We also want that customization for the pgb. That's why we think it's important that the Zvw as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u95	So referring to this very general sentence of the coalition agreement, does the VVD say that any proposal that does anything about the influence of the health insurance companies is contrary to the coalition agreement? That's a nice one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u96	Now I'm being put in my mouth. The Secretary of State's advice is very clear. Many opinions have been given on amendments. A number of amendments, including those tabled by Mrs Voortman and Mr Van Dijk, clearly contradict the health care system and the provisions of the Health Insurance Act. We take that advice very seriously and we follow the line. We understand the consideration and see that this may be the key role of health insurance companies. We understand that we want to set criteria at the front, but we do not think it is right to include them in the Health Insurance Act in this way. That's why we made the deal in the coalition agreement. It is also the reason to say that it is good to keep this agreement and to maintain the role of the health insurance company, with the duty of care that comes with it. That is why we hold on to this so firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u97	I find it difficult to follow Mr Potters' reasoning. The Minister of Health, currently Minister Schippers, often talks about the key role of health insurers. However, it was the VVD, as well as the current Minister for Health, who tabled an amendment in 2004 or 2005 regulating the inclusion of the personalised budget in the Health Insurance Act and also that it was an advance. That is far beyond Mrs Voortman's and Mr Van Dijk's amendments now before us. So I do not understand why Mr Potters is now saying that it is contrary to the coalition agreement because it breaks down the key role of health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u98	I can repeat my argument, but that will not help in this discussion. It strikes me that we had actually already arranged this part of the law, if it were not for Article 13 to be stranded in the First Chamber. There were no comments or amendments. There was no discussion about the role of health insurers and no discussion about the duty of care. That was already passed in this room. I understand that the Chamber has a number of wishes, some of which may even be understandable. But this component is at the heart of our healthcare system. That is why we say that we are in favour of legal anchoring of the pgb and that we want to do this properly, but we do not want the role of the health insurance provider to be affected, as is the case with the amendment. We agree with the advice of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet. We would like to follow that and strongly advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr Potters has not dealt with the legislative proposal, so I do not blame him for not having a clear overview of all the amendments tabled at the time. The CDA also tabled an amendment to make the personal budget an advance payment scheme. Back to the question I would like an answer to. Ten years ago, the VVD tabled an amendment on the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act which was far more far-reaching than the PvdA and GroenLinks amendment that is now before us. How is it that Mr Potters is now arguing that Voortman's and Van Dijk's amendments cannot be accepted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u100	I'm not saying we can't, but the Secretary of State's advice is clear. The government agreement agreed on the key role of health insurers. In our view, this will be affected if the Health Insurance Act is framed in such a way that those criteria are set at the front. It'll make it a rigid system. The Long-Term Care Act is really a different law than the Health Insurance Act; I think Mr Van der Staaij agrees with me. That is why we follow the advice of this Secretary of State and believe that you should not do so, because it affects the structure of the Health Insurance Act. We therefore believe that the amendment should not be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u101	I have a bit of an earbeat, especially in view of the amendment tabled by the VVD about ten years ago. Can Mr Potters explain where health insurance companies will be affected if we include access criteria such as those we have in the Wlz, which is also carried out by health insurance agencies and health insurance companies, in the Health Insurance Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u102	I understand that there is a need for a number of members to align the Wlz-systematiek and the Zvw-systematiek and to copy the access criteria from the Wlz one-on-one to the Health Insurance Act, but the Health Insurance Act is really a different law. The duty of care lies with the health insurance companies and the NZa supervises. We must take this duty of care very seriously. In the explanatory memorandum in the letter, this was discussed in detail. They are the ones who have to make these arrangements in the context of customisation. They should be able to see how they handle the pgb holder. For example, what are the differences with other health insurers? The desire to bring all this into line is contrary to the system of the Health Insurance Act. Not only does the VVD say that; so does this cabinet. That is why we should not do this. If Mrs Dik is somewhat familiar with the Health Insurance Act......................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u103	Again, where is the key role of health insurance companies affected by the clear inclusion of these criteria in the law? We have just had a debate with each other in which we also discussed the choice of choice. These allow the health insurers at the front to reach an appropriate solution in conversation with their insured persons. Objecting the criteria, in which we lay them down in the law, does not affect the key role of health insurers. I still wonder where, according to Mr Potters, that would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u104	I don't want to repeat myself, but if you're going to legally enforce the criteria at the front and impose on the health insurance companies to regulate access in one way, you're undermining part of the system. That is not only my advice, but also that of the cabinet, I say for the third time. We understand that. We think the Health Insurance Act and the choices we have made in the Netherlands are very good. We want to keep them up. That is why, in spite of the wishes of the Chamber, we do not wish to arrange it differently. This does not prevent us from considering it important to give the pgb as such a legal basis in the Health Insurance Act. That is what we have agreed in recent years, and that is what we are fulfilling. If Article 13 had not been stranded in the First Chamber, we would have aligned this law here unchanged. I'd like to give that to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u105	In my view, many things have deviated from the coalition agreement, because the intentions of some four years ago were different in practice. For example, in the government agreement, it was not agreed that the district care would go to the health insurance companies; that was decided only later. There is a motion in which this Chamber unanimously says it should be included in the Health Insurance Act. We are now a year on track with health insurers who can provide a pgb to their insured persons. Is Mr Potters satisfied with the way it is going? Is there really a right to a pgb or is there a right to ask for a pgb, but not to get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u106	It is a good thing that we are dealing with this bill now, because there has long been a desire to deal with it quickly, including with us, but what I find difficult is that we will not get the evaluation until April. Such signals will then have to come forward. I hear signals that it's not going well, but I also hear signals that it's going well. I always find it very difficult to say on the basis of a number of signals that things are not going well. I think it is good that the Secretary of State says that he wants to strengthen the role of the NZa and the SKGZ, because he thinks it is important that there is both supervision and the possibility to file a serious complaint if you disagree with the health insurance provider. I agree with that and I believe that this meets the wishes of many of us. I agree with that, but I do not think that we need to change the system of the Health Insurance Act, although this is done by this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u107	In my view, an exception to the Health Insurance Act is made by introducing a pgb for a specific type of care. Therefore, you might as well lay down different rules to those applicable to the rest of the Health Insurance Act. That doesn't threaten the system at all. It concerns the desire to force health insurers to do the same and not to compete with each other over the back of pgb-holders at as low a burden as possible. I have another question for Mr Potters. You've heard all the spokesmen. You are the last speaker in this debate. All spokesmen have said that it must be clear that there must be no or as few differences as possible between how health insurers allow pgb. Is the VVD prepared to accept a majority saying that there will be eligibility criteria? Or is the VVD going to block this bill in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u108	It is important how the access criteria are anchored. These criteria are important to clarify how you come to a pgb. The Secretary of State explained this clearly in his letter. I understand the wishes of the Chamber, I see the amendments and I have also given them an opinion. It is not wise to anchor that in this law now. If it does, it affects the system. That weighs heavily on us, even in the judgment of this law. Let it be clear, we want to anchor the pgb in this law. As far as we are concerned, it had long passed and we had not had this debate. I understand that sometimes there are some additional wishes, but this touches the core of the Health Insurance Act. We cannot support that. We are now faced with the following dilemma: are we now faced with the Health Insurance Act and what are we doing with the pgb? I think it is important that we anchor the pgb, because that is what people want to see at home. Even if it is not strictly necessary, this is the signal one wants to hear from politics. I'm behind that. I don't want the system of the Health Insurance Act to be compromised. This is the dilemma we're in. I am going to weigh this heavily and will especially look at the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u109	I'm just looking at...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr President, this is not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u111	The answer was a long time ago. We're not going to talk about this endlessly. Mr Potters may add something and then we will really continue with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u112	I would like to await the debate in order to be able to make a final assessment of what we are going to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u113	We shall now proceed to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u114	I'm gonna stick to the same point. I understand the substantive discussion we are having: does it or does it not fit into the health insurance law system? However, the political load of the point that Mr Potters is making here is that it is contrary to the coalition agreement. The PvdA says she feels differently about this. Is that the point that has been made and can we now talk about the content? Or does it have a political charge which makes it necessary for Mr Potters to make this point so explicitly public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u115	It's good use to indicate where you stand, even if you're in a coalition together. It is clear to us that we want to send a signal here that the Health Insurance Act is important, that we do not want to undermine the system and that we have agreed on it. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether this affects the core of the Health Insurance Act and, if so, what his advice is. I think the advice so far is clear: don't. I expect this to remain so clear after the debate. On this basis, we draw a final conclusion and this exchange of views is part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u116	I read the Secretary of State's response and read that he is not recommending the amendment. I hear Mr Potters saying here that the amendment is unacceptable. That's a stronger qualification. I didn't read it in the letter. Is Mr Potters actually asking the Secretary of State whether this amendment is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u117	I always try to choose my words carefully. I didn't use the word "unacceptable." I have just said that it is hard for us to see that this affects the health insurance system. I want to hear a clear answer to the question of what exactly is going on here. If the Secretary of State says that this is true, and if this is reflected in the opinion that has emerged from the amendments, then I think that we should discuss this very well. I weigh that judgment in determining our position on how to deal with this law. I would prefer to anchor it in the law, as we have agreed. That is the great wish of the VVD, but we also want the system to be maintained. That is the balance to be struck after we have also heard the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u118	It is quite tiring, always the fuss between the PvdA and the VVD and then also a coalition chord called 'building bridges'. I have a substantive question. Mr Potters uses great words on the amendments to the documents. 23, 24 and 25: contrary to the coalition agreement, contrary to the system. I don't read that in the Secretary of State's letter. On three subjects, administrative processes, the Secretary of State says: yes, that is contrary. However, he does not say that about the access criteria or about the advance, which would be contrary to the drawing rights. Mr Potters says that he is careful how he formulates things, but I do not read his words back in this letter. How does Mr Potters explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u119	Perhaps we have read the letter differently, but I think it is clear what is not recommended. This whole amendment is not recommended. We have talked specifically about these criteria. The amendment in part No. 23 will not be discouraged for nothing. We support this, but I am also curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u120	It's getting more and more exciting what the Secretary of State is going to say. Let us take a pure look at the text. It is based on a number of statements on the three topics I have just spoken about. The Secretary of State only says about access: it is not in line with the administrative agreements and it leads to an unequal position of insured persons. That's different from: it's in breach of the Health Insurance Act system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yes, the VVD considers this contrary to the Health Insurance Act. That is why I indicated this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u122	I'd like to go back to the contents. The third member of the government's bill makes it possible to impose conditions on access to the Zvw-pgb at AMvB, i.e. publicly, in line with Mr Van der Staaij's proposal. What does Mr Potters think of that provision? Then it's possible to set public conditions, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u123	We have looked closely at this and we have seen the opinion. This amendment is also not recommended by the Secretary of State. You can ask me that question, but perhaps you should ask the Secretary of State yourself. The role of health insurers is particularly important here. On the one hand, I think it is important that we anchor the pgb in this debate. I think that's the wish of all of us. On the other hand, I think we should try to maintain the system. If that gets in the way, then we have to be honest about it. Perhaps we do not agree, but it is good to have said so here. I'm just curious to see where the Secretary of State is in this debate. We believe it is important that the health insurance system should remain in place and that it should not be affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u124	Maybe I didn't ask my question very well. The major difference between Mr Van der Staaij's amendment and the government's bill is that the government says that conditions can be imposed on access to the Zvw-pgb at AMvB. Mr Van der Staaij says that we simply need to take care of it properly. The core of this remains that you can set conditions for access to the pgb at AMvB and therefore public. My question to Mr Potters was what he thinks of that public provision, which is also in the government's legislative proposal. It would therefore affect the system. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u125	Let us be clear that we are very reluctant to impose public conditions on the front, which once again have an impact on the Health Insurance Act. An AMvB means that it can; it is not an obligation. Perhaps it could be clarified in an explanatory statement. However, I am once again following the advice of the Secretary of State. I just don't think we should do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u126	It's in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u127	I am referring to Mr Van der Staaij's amendment, so that is the confusion. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk can ask his question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u128	I thought you'd already been to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr Potters asked me to raise my question a little more clearly. I could have made it clearer, so I will do so again. The government's own bill makes it possible in the third paragraph to set public conditions at AMvB. Surely it can't be that it's against the system if you set public conditions? Otherwise, the government itself would send a bill to the Chamber that is contrary to the system. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u130	In the legislative proposal itself, it is a can-be provision and can be made. There is a degree of restraint in this, which I endorse. We do not want it to be an obligation now or, more importantly, to be directly incorporated into the law. This is contrary to the system we want and to what we agreed in the coalition agreement. That is why we are very reluctant to do so, but we support the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u131	I'd like to ask a legal question. Is Mr Potters actually saying that we have made a bill with the possibility to introduce a General Measure of Management if necessary, but that the VVD does not want it because it restricts the freedom of choice of the health insurance provider? If that's what he thinks, he's gonna have to file an amendment to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u132	I think it's a can-be that you apply with great restraint when it's necessary. I can't see if it's necessary right now. I don't think so. I think we should be very reluctant about that. If the cabinet comes with an AMvB to fill in that provision, it is good to take a very good look at it, perhaps with a front hanging procedure. If this AMvB comes to the Chamber, it is the question whether it is contrary to the system of the Health Insurance Act. We won't know until that AMvB's there. It's hard to see that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u133	On 6 October 1995, it was Erica Terpstra who managed to get the personal budget through the Chamber. The core of the proposal was that the direction and responsibility lie with the budget holder, not with the health insurance provider. Now it really looks like the VVD is going to turn that principle around. My question is whether Mr Potters is aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u134	If there is one party that has always stood for the pgb-holder and may even be the founder of the pgb, then it is the VVD. Mrs Bruins Slot may address me to that. I like that too, because it is true that we are always in front of the pgb-holder and our own freedom of choice, but we also have something like system responsibility. Now we want to copy some provisions of the Long-Term Care Act to the Health Insurance Act. I think that would be contrary to the system. Not only do I think so, but this cabinet thinks so, hence the great degree of restraint. Again, we really stand in front of the pgb-holder. That's why we want to anchor it in the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u135	I see you looking, Mr President, but I would like to make a brief comment on this point. A year ago there was indeed a bill in which the pgb was anchored. That bill didn't make it in the First Chamber. That's where the pgb and the Health Insurance Act were taken out. So now we're talking about a separate bill. However, we are a year away. In that year we saw that it is not working properly as it is now, on the basis of administrative agreements. The access is simply not insured. I have now heard so many times the word "system" that I wonder: does the VVD put the word "system" first, does it go for it, or does it put the budget holder first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u136	The word "system" actually stands for extremely good care. Maybe the best care in the world. In fact, that is evident from the lists on which we score again and again. This system, which is now being discussed aloof, is very close to care, to care that is extremely good and of high quality. In order to defend that system, we think it is important that it is not simply damaged, not because we want to maintain a system, but precisely because it gives everyone access to good care in the Netherlands. A lot of people, including health insurance, are trying very hard to do that. That is why we stand here and say: watch what you're doing, because before you know it you're throwing away something you don't want to throw away, and we shouldn't undermine that system, which Mrs Dik-Faber thinks is very abstract, but that I see as care close. That's why we're standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u137	"We want to move from systems to people": how many times have I not heard the Secretary of State say it? That is why I am asking the question again. What is the priority here: the system or the budget holders, the people we all do it for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u138	What comes first is that someone who needs care gets it done in a good way. This also means that we must try to keep the Health Insurance Act as we know it now. We must cherish them. It is therefore important that we do not overstep that. This does not mean that we must leave everything to the health insurance companies. In fact, this duty of care is extremely important. That's what the letter says. The Chamber, or at least the Secretary of State, must really appeal to the health insurance companies if things go wrong. But I do not want us to harm the system by wanting to deal with something that I do not think we should. That is not only my advice but also the advice of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u139	Now we've had all the spokesmen. Everyone says, after a year's experience with the granting of pgbs by health insurance companies, that it is necessary to lay down award criteria. This can or cannot be done in a law, whether or not through a General Measure of Governance. All the spokesmen have said so. The VVD Group does not want it to be possible to do so, but then it is on its own. Will it block the law if this amendment is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u140	It's always wise not to go into questions like that right away. I wanted to point out in my contribution that this is crucial for us. We do not want the Health Insurance Act and its system to be affected. That is clearly what we have exchanged here. I can also give the question to the Secretary of State: what exactly is the situation, how serious is that and where are we in the debate? We think it is extremely important that we can anchor the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. There is no doubt about that, but I do not want us to be able to undermine our own system. That is what we need to do here. I really want to wait for the Secretary of State's response and not anticipate our voting behaviour already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u141	Of course we have to wait for the debate. Of course we have to listen to each other. Mr Potters did not wish to enter into a debate two weeks ago because he could not see the amendments, their operation and their scope. He has now been able to say for two weeks that he considers this to be contrary to the coalition agreement. We don't think so. That does result in the political question: how heavy and hard does the VVD play this? We hear everything behind the scenes, but I also think he should say it here in the debate. Hearing all colleagues from all other parties the VVD is on its own. If this is accepted, will the VVD draw a power card or will the VVD submit to a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u142	Maybe I'll repeat it again, but we would've arranged this law if Article 13 hadn't been stranded in the First Chamber. Then it would've just been over here. That the Chamber indicates a number of things to want to guarantee better, I understand. I also understand that there are questions about the access criteria. A clear opinion has been delivered by the Secretary of State. I think that's a good advice. We follow the cabinet in that, but I also hear that the majority of the Chamber may want something else. That is what we must do. For us, it is difficult for the system to be affected if this amendment is adopted. We must wait for the debate to see where we come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u143	I suggest that Mr Potters finish his story now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u144	In 2014, agreements were reached on exceeding the budgetary framework for nursing and care. In the event of a breach of the framework, the Minister shall have the option of recovering this overrun by using the macro-management instrument. More questions have been asked about that. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this instrument relates to the system of the pgb? We'll have some questions about that. It has already been explained, but perhaps the Secretary of State could go into this a little further. With a discount on the macro budget can there also be a refund for the pgb-holders? I'd like to get a response to that point. Finally, as everyone knows, the VVD is a strong supporter of the pgb. Customised care can be provided with this. That is a good thing. The possibility of a pgb in the Health Insurance Act is therefore fine, as long as the system of the Health Insurance Act remains intact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u145	We have come to the end of the first term. I would like to talk to my fellow Members about whether we are trying to conclude the debate tonight or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u146	We'll suspend the meeting until 7:40 p.m. and then the Secretary of State will answer. Then we'll see if we finish it or not. In any case, the Secretary of State will give the answers, some of which he has already provided by his opinions on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u147	The Chamber has spoken in its first term. This means that the cabinet will now respond in the first term. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. It is very nice for a Secretary of State to hear that, as the debate progresses, there is much more tension waiting for his input in the first term. I find that very nice to notice; I will do my best to meet those expectations. I think I should be doing expectation management, but I'm not doing that for a while. I think it would be a good idea to consider the importance of this moment. We are on the eve of anchoring the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act. Mrs Bruins Slot recalled the rich history of both the personal budget and the question of what laws that should be anchored in. It is also a bit historic that we are now on the verge of anchoring these personal budgets in the law. We are about to discuss and debate matters on which there are still differences of opinion. For my part, I will state why I consider the anchoring of the personal budget so important. Indeed, we often talk about the need for health care to be organised less from systems and more from the people. That's a lot of work, because the care is made up of a lot of systems. Despite all the differences of understanding that we may have about the reform of care, it is clear to me and the Members of Parliament that we need to organise care in a way that takes more account of the needs of people themselves. It is very good to consider, especially in the case of personal care, whether the personal approach could increasingly be the starting point in legislation. You have system discussions about this, which is inherent in our legislation and the existing systems. However, if we succeed in furthering personal orientation in all these laws, then the pgb is an important tool for this, of course, I am very pleased with it. If one change in care has been made that has brought the discussion about personal care closer in all those laws, it is also the pgb. With all its discussions, the anchoring of personal care in all those laws has shown that you have to do a lot but that it is incredibly important. I do not think there has been an instrument in the care sector that has been so heavily debated in this shift towards personalised care. Mr Van Dijk also pointed out this in his speech. The anchoring of all these laws raises a number of questions. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out the balance in his contribution. The importance of anchoring the personal budget in all laws, in this case the Health Insurance Act, raises the question of exactly how to do that. I think it's always about finding a good balance in all these laws. On the one hand, there is the importance of freedom of choice for people to choose a pgb if that fits well with their personal situation and they can shape their own care in their own direction. This is incredibly important for many groups of people: people with intensive child care have already been mentioned, but also people who need 24-hour care and people who need a lot of flexibility. I think that has been the very substantial, almost emancipatory contribution of the personal instrument. It's very important to do that. On the other hand, it is also important to look at different questions. Where does it make sense? Where can it be? What about the quality? Can people manage it? Is it effective? Those are all questions that occur at the same time as balancing. The question has also been raised: can we do it as synchronized as possible in all laws? We really tried to do that. At the same time, you have to take into account that there are laws that assign responsibilities to different players who each try to monitor the balance in a slightly different way. In the Wmo, municipalities are asked to provide an appropriate provision on the basis of a conversation with those who ask for care. We've seen that that doesn't always go well. This also requires the empathy of the municipality: in order to be able to conduct these conversations properly and to be able to provide that appropriate provision. If there are discussions about this, then, to put it simply, an appeal is made to the city council. This also applies in the Long-Term Care Act. It provides for an independent indicative body, the CIZ, to examine access. This is done with care profiles, which are established in advance. There are a number of exceptions for pgbs. For treatments you can't get pgb in the Long-Term Care Act. Some care profiles are excluded. Furthermore, in the discussion of home visits and "conscious choice" conversations we introduced. A number of spokesmen have also mentioned this. That's where the balance was found. In the Health Insurance Act, we are also trying to find that balance. Access is indicated by the professionals. The health insurance companies must organise this with their duty of care. Administrative agreements have been made, with Per Balance and health insurance companies, to look at: what exactly are we talking about? In fact, you could see these administrative agreements as the directive that applies to other professions. Let's just get to the main point right away. The discussion is about the question: how do we look at this access? And what are you supposed to record and what aren't? Why is that such an important discussion anyway? You could say: what difference does it make, because if everyone agrees, you can also record it. Why did we not recommend a number of amendments which dealt with this? I will try not to use the system argument so much as to say something about it, but to look at what is behind it, at what is the substantive point. In the context of the Health Insurance Act, we ask health insurance companies to ensure that they purchase care that is good and efficient and possibly also selective in terms of quality. In response to the latter, there was the whole discussion on Article 13. We therefore ask the insurers to complete their duty of care in such a way that they purchase quality and efficiency for the benefit of their insured persons. We're asking them to make an effort to do that. In fact, I would like this effort to be even more focused on making care in kind as flexible and individual as possible. It applies not only to the personal budget but also to care in kind. This requires an effort on the part of health insurers. Even then the balance plays again. If that effort is made and if you try to buy in that care in kind as best you can, you should be careful not to have a system on the other hand in which you can say: thank you for buying it for me but, thank you, I always opt for a personal budget. Then you get tension between, on the one hand, the effort that the insurer has to make to selectively buy in and, on the other hand, the possibility that this effort can be cancelled because one can simply say: that does not apply to me; I choose another system. That selective purchasing is important to do, because this selective purchasing is aimed at a number of things: high quality care, sometimes cost control, sometimes efficiency, so the whole thing. Another element can be seen in the letter that DSW wrote: it is good to have criteria on the front side on the one hand, but on the other hand we sometimes want to have something to say about the granting of the pgb, even though an indication has been given. The letter from DSW also says: if an indication is given, we sometimes want to see if a pgb is in place. DSW rightly mentions a number of examples. What information do you want in there? How do you look at informal care and how do you want to honour it? For my part, I want to keep a close eye on the balance. We ask insurers to selectively contract, because we want it for a number of reasons. Let us not automatically destroy this by allowing people to do nothing about it. Then you will see that health insurance companies will say: then I don't have to do all the shopping. And I don't want to. I want them to do the same when it comes to making care in kind more flexible and individual. I think that is very important, and it should not be destroyed for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u149	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mrs. Voortman, the Chamber has spoken for two and a half hours. The Secretary of State is now speaking for exactly seven minutes. So I think it would be wise, just out of courtesy, for us to wait for him to finish his introduction. Then I'd be happy to give you the floor. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u151	Is this still the Secretary of State's introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u153	This is also the background to the directives agreed at the time between Per Recht and Zorgverzekerings Nederland. In point 3.3, an attempt has been made to see how best to define care and pgb in kind. 1. Often needing care at varying and unusual times. 2. Take care to plan that is bad in advance because it is needed at different times at a short time on a day and on call. 3. Take care that should be available 24 hours a day immediately in the vicinity or on call. 4. The need for regular care providers given the specific care provision related to the use of specific tools. The idea was to describe as best as possible what care for personalised budgets is eligible. By the way, that doesn't mean you don't have to worry if there's no pgb. On the contrary, there is, of course, always a duty of care. That's what I'm saying. There is either care in kind, or refund, or the special care form pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u154	That was your introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u155	I have another piece, but I was trying to build in a hesitation, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u156	I'm asking you to finish your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u157	I have noticed that there is a discussion: yes, that is a nice story, but how does it work in practice? We have tried to write down as well as possible how everyone is going to do it, but how does it work in practice? Mrs Voortman said that we already have an evaluation before the law comes into force. That is not entirely true, because we do not yet have an anchoring of the pgbs in the law, so this is an evaluation on the basis of the administrative arrangements that have been made. We are getting signals that some budget holders are dissatisfied with the way that has happened and that they experience that health insurers are too reluctant to deal with it. Whether those signals are true or not, we need to see that. I'll take them seriously. When budget holders say that this is not treated with the good mindset, it is important to take that into account. That is why the government has said the following. If we take the complaints seriously but also want to keep an eye on the balance, would it not be good to arrange a few more things? Firstly, let us ask the healthcare authority to explicitly consider whether it can include the administrative arrangements in the supervisory framework. Secondly, we are looking at whether access to complaints and disputes does not last very long, but is easily accessible and fast. Thirdly, can we not use the monitor that comes in spring to see how things are going in practice? In doing so, we have tried to strike a balance between anchoring pgbs on the one hand and ensuring good criteria on the other. Let us not record it all in advance at the front, but be alert as to whether it is going well in practice. I have heard the Chamber correctly and I think that a fairly broad majority in the Chamber would like to see this access done, as Mr Van Dijk said. What guarantees would I like to look for? Let us not try to nail things to the front when we actually still have to have information on how things are going now, but let us put reinforced dike surveillance on it. If, on the basis of the monitoring, the complaints or the monitor, it appears that further rules are needed, we will also make them. That is convenient, because in the law itself there is the possibility for an AMvB. We must use them to arrange a number of things. As soon as we receive information this spring, we can, for example, examine whether further measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mrs. Voortman... I see she's letting her interrupt. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a point of order. In his introduction, the Secretary of State touched on three aspects of the debate: the position of the health insurers and the way in which they buy, the access criteria and the role of the pgb. In fact, I think that the debate beats to death when you say that no questions should be asked about it, because it is an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u160	What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u161	That is that in future, especially if you have not chaired the debate in the afternoon and do not know exactly what the main points of the debate were, Members of Parliament should not remember an interruption on an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u162	I'm not going into that. If anyone here is a guest, we'll just let him finish the introduction. The introduction lasted less than ten minutes. The Chamber has spoken for two and a half hours. We recently agreed in the Bureau that we would allow rulers here to do their own story first and then allow a lot of interruptions. You don't know if I'm planning to. I intend to. So you can just interrupt. I am not gonna kill any debate, but if we have a guest here, we're gonna let him finish at first. That's my line. I'm not gonna change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u163	I assume, then, that on all these points we can have the debate with this Secretary of State and that he will not refer to it as follows: I have already mentioned this in my introduction. That's what you're guarding!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u164	Sure, but you can't judge that until that's happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u165	The Secretary of State pointed out the differences in systems between the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act. He also mentioned the purchasing task of the health insurance companies. Effectiveness and quality are criteria which are also set out in the Long-Term Care Act. Then why couldn't they apply to the pgb in the Health Insurance Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u166	They are also included in the administrative arrangements. Based on that, surgery is now in progress. We have to keep an eye on each other to see if this happens to a sufficient extent. A number of members of the Chamber have wondered whether it would be good if many or many more conscious choices were made or home visits were made to find out if a pgb is in place there or if you could arrange it in a different way. These considerations are contained in the Long-Term Care Act and in the Health Insurance Act. There are other players, but it is designed in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u167	The Secretary of State just indicated that health insurers should be able to buy and take into account efficiency and quality. That is why we cannot lay down these criteria in the law. Now the Secretary of State indicates that this is already in the agreements. Then we can put that in the law, can't we? Well, that's the brightest thing for everyone, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u168	It's not about being able. It is a question of how, in the way in which we are going to do this, we can keep a little balance between, on the one hand, the purchasing role and, on the other hand, a form in which people say: no, I do not, give me a pgb. I believe that insurers should fulfil the purchasing role. It must also be individual in kind care, as I have just said. We anchor the pgb to ensure that it also takes place and is an equivalent form. The debate is not about whether criteria should apply, because they should of course apply. They're in the administrative arrangements. My proposal is to anchor them in the supervisory framework. But the question is whether you already want to arrange it at the front in the sense of: if this occurs, you can go by the list and check out what is and what is not. If you do that, I think you are disturbing, at least at the beginning, the necessary balance between the side of care in kind and the side of the personal budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mrs. Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u170	I assumed it was twice, but thank you for the third time!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u171	I like debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u172	That's very nice, Mr. Chairman. It is up to the health insurance company to show: I bought such a great offer and that is much better. Then there should be exactly the crux, because then the client says: you convinced me, health insurance, I don't need that pgb. Actually, the Secretary of State is now saying that he assumes that people are not willing to listen to the arguments of health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u173	No, I'm not assuming that at all. I'm assuming there's a balance in it. On the one hand, the health insurance provider should be given the opportunity to make care shopping efforts that cannot be immediately crossed by saying: I don't need to look at them; just give me a pgb. That means the pgb holder will listen to the health insurance provider. On the other hand, the health insurance company listens to the pgb-holder because of the administrative arrangements. It says: "Wait a minute, if it's 24-hour care that's not planned at all, if there's changing times and if it needs to be flexible, then the health insurance company says that although he's bought care, in this situation it should just be a pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u174	Did you get a satisfactory answer, Mrs. Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u175	No, but we've got a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u176	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u177	I'm moving on to the same point. Actually, the Secretary of State says that pgb undermines quality procurement by health insurers. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it. I understand that 6% of community care is bought with a pgb. There is therefore sufficient challenge for health insurers to buy in based on quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u178	I don't recognize that 6%. That must be demonstrated by the figures we will get. When I look at budget development, I do not have the impression that too little is being bought in, but well, we will all notice that. Why are we anchoring it in the Health Insurance Act? Because it is an instrument that belongs in the entire range of care purchase: care in kind, refund, personal budget. One doesn't undermine the other. You have to decide which form is most appropriate to your situation. That's important. In many cases, care may be in kind. In some cases, it is not, for example, because you want to be very flexible. There are criteria for this in the administrative arrangements. Sometimes people will say: I don't want anything to do with it, I do a refund policy, because I want to get a refund and I see. We all make that possible now. I don't want to have a list in front of me that says, "If you meet this, it's always gonna be." We would be in danger of losing that balance a little bit, and I would like to look at that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u179	Those access criteria will come soon, but I'd like to go back to that care buy-in by the health insurance companies. The Secretary of State said: I signal a tension field, because the health insurance company is doing a lot of work to buy the best quality of care for the insured person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u180	I said he has to do his best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u181	Exactly. The health insurance provider must do his best to purchase the best care for the insured person. If insured persons then make use of a pgb, it would undermine the healthcare provider's efforts and the health insurance provider might even think: forget it, because they choose a pgb anyway. If the Secretary of State meant otherwise, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u182	It's like a little nuance. I object to writing it down in advance. If you're saying someone gets a pgb if they meet a list of conditions, I'm exaggerating for a second, and you're running the risk of that undermining. Pgbs do not work undermining, because pgbs are ideal for people who need a pgb. So, by definition, Pgbs do not work undermining. However, if you make a list of criteria that give you a pgb in advance, you give a wrong impression. I think there should be discussions to make a conscious choice. People must come to a decision in a careful procedure. I don't know if Mrs. Leijten recognizes it, but I'm still trying. She pointed out that it was not just about anchoring pgbs as well as possible. It's incredibly important that people don't choose a pgb because there's nothing else. Then we'll all bring in trouble. Then there'll be all kinds of paperwork in which people get stuck. I would very much like care in kind to be bought in in such a way that it responds to the demands of many people. I try to find that balance between pgbs, which are anchored in the law and which are tailored to people they need very badly, and the purchase of good care in kind, which also meets the wishes of a lot of people. This must not be unnecessarily under pressure. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u183	I think the Secretary of State is creating a false contradiction. A health insurance company can still buy as well and as well, with no personalised budget as I call it, and yet it is necessary to opt for a personalised budget. So the opposition that the Secretary of State creates here is not there. There is a risk, however, that people in need of care will go to another insurer. It's called "hidden risk selection." Does the Secretary of State not agree, precisely in order to avoid that, that all health insurers must meet the same criteria, so that they do not have competition on being attractive to insured persons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u184	There should be no competition on access. What is possible is that this happens around innovations or the speed of your pgb's and the handling of pgb's. It's not as crazy as one insurer is profiling against another in that area. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that it cannot be that you are forced out of the pgb or vice versa that is so badly bought in that you do have to have a pgb. That's exactly my point. Let me reason exactly the other way around than with a list of conditions under which you can get a pgb: what I would find very bad is if health insurance companies would say that they will end that list and then leave the purchasing effort. I wouldn't want that. I want this procurement effort to be very focused on good and sustainable procurement, which is flexible and human-oriented and which makes a good balance between care in kind and personal budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u185	I want to get away from that false contradiction between care in kind and personal budget. This is about the access criteria. They are not, as far as I am concerned, a check-off list, but they are mainly intended to clarify what a health insurance company should not do. Now, for example, a health insurance company says that someone can plan when he can go to the bathroom. That's what they say indeed! That he doesn't get a personal budget. Does the Secretary of State not think that politics should say that this is an unacceptable admission criterion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u186	That's what I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u187	If we say that clearly now, what is wrong with saying what are acceptable eligibility criteria? We write them down and then they're the same for all health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u188	Then I'll have to repeat what I've already said. I note that there are now agreements which form the basis for the design of the pgbs for these groups. There is then a debate on how this will be done in practice. When you see that, do you say that what you've seen in practice is completely wrong and wants to record in advance that you get it if you meet it and otherwise you don't? That's pretty complicated at this stage. Or are you saying that the groups and the criteria under which you can get a pgb are laid down in administrative agreements? I have heard the Chamber correctly and I am listening to signals from practice. We need to make sure that this remains in balance. This means, in my view, that supervision should be strengthened, that access to redress should be strengthened, that the monitor should be caught, and that the findings of these investigations should then be taken into account in the AMvB, which we must make for the implementation of this law. In that way, we can say much more specifically that these criteria are very important to apply rather than to say anything in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u189	However, I would like the Secretary of State to comment on my argument of risk selection. We do not have the target group here that health insurers want to bring in because they are making money. No, these people cost money. So it's very attractive to have as bad a reputation as possible, because then they will go to your competitor. It is precisely because this risk is not only present but also seeing it happen at the moment that we need to say that it is important that you do not refuse a pgb on unfair grounds. It's called admission criteria. Can the Secretary of State comment on how health insurers can apply risk selection by dealing as negatively as possible with pgb and community care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u190	She wouldn't do much good to me either. First of all, there is the general answer that risk selection should not be allowed and that the Dutch Healthcare Authority should monitor this. But by the way, imagine a health care provider saying, "I don't like giving you a pgb; you don't get it." There is still a duty of care and therefore care in kind to be regulated, and in some respects it is even more expensive. Therefore, I do not see that the health insurance provider gets the incentive to say under the guise of risk selection: you do not get a pgb. After all, he has to deliver and pay for that care. Actually, I don't think that danger is that great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u191	Let's take a look at my list. Mrs. Bruins Slot, CDA, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u192	The Dutch Healthcare Authority has indeed concluded that there is indirect risk selection and that there are methods to ward off chronically ill patients. They are often also the people with a personal budget. For that, health insurance companies have a lot of ugly tricks. One of these tricks is to buy in less good quality care in kind. I therefore think it is very wrong that the Secretary of State should create a false contradiction. He says that the fact that budget holders can buy a personal budget is at the expense of those who receive care in kind. The Dutch Healthcare Authority has concluded that there is indirect risk selection and the exclusion of chronically ill. It is therefore a question of giving chronically ill people the same chance of receiving certain care as people who can easily get that care. Therefore, once again, the question of how the Secretary of State looks at indirect risk selection in chronically ill patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u193	With permission, but that's a completely different point. It is now about whether there could be such indirect mechanisms in the care purchase that you are actually dealing with risk selection. I am thinking, for example, of advertising budget policies and policies with a certain luxury and other control mechanisms in purchasing. In reply to Mrs Leijten, I noticed that we are not talking about whether or not less care is being bought in, but about the form of care. I note that there is both care in kind and refund and a personal budget. The health insurance provider could indeed choose to buy a certain form of care less, but this does not avoid his duty of care. He is and will remain obliged to provide that care. In fact, it might be more expensive for him. There has already been a very extensive debate with my colleague, the Minister, on indirect risk selection. We must, of course, avoid this, see also the report of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. But is that caused by the contrast between care in kind versus pgb? I don't see that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u194	I am pleased that the Secretary of State acknowledges in the second instance that there is indirect risk selection and that he now recognises that it is at the expense of people who are chronically ill. This also means that it is important to create safeguards so that people who are chronically ill and need a personalised budget have the same right to access the personalised budget with every health insurance provider. How does the Secretary of State judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u195	Let me get this straight. You refer to the report of the Dutch Healthcare Authority in which this is pointed out and ask me how we can counter this. However, risk selection is about whether you can exclude some insured persons. As a result, a certain insurer would have fewer risks than a health insurance provider with insured persons with a high care demand. Of course, that is not what the form of care is about, because if an insurer has an insured person inside, he must give him care in kind, refund or a pgb. So you can't exclude such an insured person by saying: I'm going to offer a different form of care, because then maybe I don't have to do it. That's not what's going on in there. To what extent is there risk selection and how do we deal with the NZa's report? These questions are still being examined, as Mrs Bruins Slot knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u196	Let me return the Secretary of State to the core of my question. At the heart of that question is the question of establishing access criteria. The Secretary of State says all the time: I have real faith in the administrative arrangements I have made. Then why doesn't he record it in the AMvB? What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u197	I didn't say it like that. We're talking today about anchoring the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. Before we had that law, there were administrative agreements between the health insurance companies and Per Balance about how we're going to do that and for what target groups we're going to do that. Four categories have emerged from this. That's what happened. Then we said that we are going to monitor it very well. That monitor's coming in April. We are going to anchor the pgbs in the Health Insurance Act, and the discussion that is taking place here is about the following. Are we gonna take care of this front and say, "This is the list, and if you finish that list, you're gonna come up with yes or no?" Or do we say: let us ensure that it is done in a good way and let us monitor it very carefully? If we come to the conclusion, on the basis of such a monitor, monitoring and complaints, that there is a discussion about setting or tightening up or otherwise formulating the criteria, we shall have at least substance which will enable us to say what the good tightenings are. Otherwise, I am very afraid that we will make a list in general. Then you're steering at the front, when you don't know what to do yet. Moreover, there is the danger of the tension that can arise between care in kind and personal budget, a tension that I would really like to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u198	In Mrs Bruins Slot, I still see the tendency to place an interruption on a non-verbal basis. That'll be her last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u199	I'm trying to bring the Secretary of State back to the core of the question. He is positive about the administrative arrangements made. The essence of my question is why he doesn't record it in an AMvB. Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u200	That is because we have agreed with each other that we should give the health insurance companies that purchasing role and that we will look at how it relates. Moreover, we have already laid down in the law that we should lay down detailed rules if we believe that they can be drawn up. I would like to put more detailed rules, if necessary, on the basis of what I see in practice and the question to which we have to adjust. I would rather do that than say in the front that these are the rules, and we are not quite sure whether they are in line with the practice we want. I'd like to do it based on the data we get. It is the same with care in kind. I do not want them to be automatic but I want to promote that care in kind is bought in in such a way that it helps people. Similarly, I do not want pgbs to be automatic in the sense that it is good according to those criteria. In the case of personal budgets, they will have to be very personalised and we have to cut them down to the wishes of the people. By the way, there will always be the individual criterion for pgbs whether you can manage it and whether it is effective. These criteria are also included in the administrative arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u201	The Secretary of State has very often indicated in debates: from systems to people. We have discussed extensively what it would mean if a group of people from the AWBZ were to use the Health Insurance Act. I'm really trying to move into the Secretary of State's logic. Both in the WMO and in the Wlz and in the Youth Act, we have defined access criteria with each other. Why should we make an exception for health insurance companies? Why should we wait for a monitor, which is likely to produce fantastic results, even though we are now getting other signals? So I don't understand the Secretary of State's story, knowing that we've done this differently for three other laws. What's the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u202	Did we do it differently? If you look at these other laws a little more closely at how we've arranged it, you'll see that there's the same balance, arranged in another legal system. At the Wmo we tell the municipalities that they have to make an appropriate provision. That appropriate provision may also take the form of a pgb if it is decided to do so. We have said to the municipalities that they must decide whether it is indeed an appropriate provision and whether people can handle it; let me put it simply. That is the way we have put it. In the Long-Term Care Act, it's exactly the same. In fact, it's even tighter in there. This is because there is an independent indicative body that has to say something first. This establishes a care profile; all this has already been determined. Next, the healthcare office will talk to you, the conscious choice interview, about the question: what will we do, care in kind or pgb? In a way, one could say that it is much tighter in this regard than in the Health Insurance Act. Under the latter law, health insurance companies are required to buy in. There have been agreements made that allow you to qualify for pgbs. We must then ensure that the balance sheet is in place. So it is synchronised as much as possible, taking into account the fact that the players are different and the conditions are a little different. But as much synchronization as possible has been sought. I remember, by the way, that at the request of D66 we made such a nice table at one of the debates in which we have all written it out: how is it similar to the pgbs in the different laws? Then we came to the conclusion: well, that seems very similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u203	I am glad that the Secretary of State is still referring to a table on our request. That was very clear indeed. Access criteria have been formulated from the Wlz. In the amendment to item No. 25 we have said: let these also apply to the Health Insurance Act. Then you give people a hold instead of a hold-on conversation, in which they depend on how the health insurance company handles the access criteria. Now you formulate a number of access criteria in the law. With all the good will of the world, I still don't understand why you wouldn't formulate some access criteria in the law, if you really think from people. There is also a possibility with a General Measure of Management to correct and work out a number of things further. I do not understand, especially since the Secretary of State's argument is that it is not in line with the administrative arrangements. They were not intended as a directive, but as a means of achieving this legal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u204	On the basis of these practical experiences, it would be very good to reach new agreements if necessary. I would like to see a practice in which the personal budgets become a normal part of the Health Insurance Act, like all other forms of care such as medical-specialist care and general care. I'd like parties to sit around each other if that's what it takes to figure out how they're gonna do it. You can call it guidelines, although it may be called different here. On the basis of these agreements, the health insurance companies should start buying. I think it is important to see if we can respect that system by not laying down all the criteria at the front. The criteria should be co-developed by the parties in practice and by the people concerned. We must keep an eye on each other to see if things are going well in practice. There must be proper supervision and we must have a measure in case it goes wrong. I would argue that we should give that space to parties when introducing the PGB into the Health Insurance Act. Let's not have any illusions. I don't have the confidence that things are going well in advance. I note that it would be a good thing for the parties to make agreements, for us to monitor each other's progress and for us to intervene when it is necessary. So I don't want to prescribe at the front how it should be done and later conclude that it isn't quite right after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u205	My question to the Secretary of State is whether he is not alone in that. The only party that doesn't want it is the VVD. Everyone also wants the access criteria to be incorporated into the law. Interest groups and client organisations also point out that it is important. The only ones who don't want it are the VVD and the health insurance companies. The Secretary of State often listens to the different interests, but does not change his opinion, having heard that we have been talking for two and a half hours about the access criteria in particular? Does that change his judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u206	I am trying to get to grips with this debate as far as possible, by saying what the considerations are and the conditions under which we have operated. I listen very carefully to the Chamber and I hear her say: you can say that all of this is going well, but that is not self-evident. That's what I hear from others. For example, I hear it from Per Balance. When the health insurance companies say it's going well, it's not like I think it's gonna be okay. If on the other hand there are people who say that they have gone wrong, I would also like to know for what reason the pgb has been refused and what is behind it. That is why I like to make the debate substantive, a bit in the tradition of D66, so that we can ask what we are going to base it on. Are we going to base it on a few rules that we make in advance and say: we'll see? Or do we say: let's look at the principles of anchoring in the law, and then, on the basis of supervision, signals and monitoring, we will look very closely at whether tightening up is necessary? I believe that this way we will allow parties to do what they need to do, namely to agree on what would be good for the different target groups. On the other hand, we have a stick behind the door to intervene if it turns out it's not right. As far as I am concerned, this can be indicated by all parties. I want it to be as substantial as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u207	However, the uncompromising bill we received from the Cabinet already provides for the possibility that AMvB may determine the conditions under which the insured persons are eligible. Thus, there is an explicit possibility of establishing the access criteria in this way. The secretary of state indicated that it was a stick behind the door; so I read it in the documents. Isn't this how it's gonna be too difficult to intervene? After all, you only have a title to do that when things really go wrong in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u208	Well, no, because I told you in advance how we're gonna follow that. We have said that the agreements made are explicitly part of the supervisory framework of the Healthcare Authority. I would also like to ensure that we use the information that comes out of access to the complaint and dispute settlement system to assess how things are going. Moreover, there is an independent monitor running through Radboud University, of which we get the information. I note that we will all have that information in April. I therefore believe that we will soon be able to obtain information as to whether it is going well or not. We can then involve them in the discussions that we will then have with the parties about what they think. If we then believe that we need to take further action, we can do the same. I understand that there are amendments that regulate a veil. That enables the Chamber to look into this intensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u209	I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning, but saying you don't know if you're gonna do it yet and wondering what the right time to do it is two different things. I heard the Secretary of State at the beginning say that there is a possibility in the AMvB that we should also use, but on the other hand I hear him say that we should only use it if it goes wrong. What is it now? Is this just something that we could possibly do as a sanction, or could it be sensible, from the point of view of legal certainty, to regulate it in this way, but is it just too early to do so? I think that's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u210	Maybe it's a little bit in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u211	Now it is very refined!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u212	I realize that. I'll try to speak a little grosser! The possibility has come into the AMvB to have a stick behind the door. In doing so, we have deliberately chosen not to write down in advance how it is done, but to look at how it is done in practice. Mr Van der Staaij asks: when are you going to do that? If these three sources of information show that it is not going well, and that is why we should take further action, we will do so. I said that it wants coincidence, but there may not be coincidence that we already have that information in April. So we can make a very good assessment of whether it is necessary to take further action and make use of the AMvB option that is already in place, or whether it is actually going very well in practice. Moreover, I would be very pleased if, as with those other forms of care, we could give a normal form of care to the parties concerned, as in the case of the other forms of care, to indicate what they think and what measures they would like to propose. I understand that I may have to give parties a hand, because if one party says that things are going well and the other that things are going badly, then we will have to back this up with facts. That's what we're doing right now. We shall therefore have every opportunity to discuss this matter with each other and to involve the Chamber in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u213	The tricky thing about this is that it's made dependent on whether you think it's going well or not. Isn't that going to burden the discussion instead of making it easier? Can't you make it easier by saying: we all understand that there is a lot of discussion and that uniformity can be at stake soon, so we wait for a moment to see what exactly comes out of that monitor, but we agree that we are setting the access criteria in a good way, hopefully to everyone's satisfaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u214	Mr Van der Staaij is now taking one step further. I can tell from his face that that's what he's trying to do. We have simply said: if we need to do it, we have to do it. Mr Van der Staaij says: speak out now that it is necessary! I think it would be wise only to establish on the basis of the facts that it is necessary and not to say in advance that it will be necessary. I want to give parties the opportunity to do this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u215	I have heard the Secretary of State say that he thinks differences or competition between health insurers on access to the pgb is undesirable. I am glad that he has said so, but I would like to know how he intends to deal with it next. We see in practice that health insurers act very differently in this regard. And how does the Secretary of State intend to provide insured persons with clarity as to whether they are entitled to a pgb? The Youth Act, the Wmo and the Wlz appear to contain criteria that many people are satisfied with. Why shouldn't you be able to include it in the Health Insurance Act? How is the Secretary of State gonna give insured people a grip? First of all, I want to know how to regulate uniformity and, secondly, how to provide insurance companies with a basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u216	Well, uniformity, I hope that with those pgb's too, I repeat: as far as possible also in the case of care in kind, the wishes of the client-patient are taken into account. This means that with conscious choice conversations, conversations can simply take place about what is best in one's situation. To exaggerate it a little bit, I also see in practice that people may have had to opt for a personalised budget, while it might be simpler for those people to be dealt with through care in kind. Even with a rule you don't catch complete uniformity, because it will be part of the rule whether or not you can manage it. We all agree on this. That leads to an individual decision. To one you can say: "I think you can't manage it" and to the other: "I think you can manage it." You can never completely regulate that uniformity. In a number of aspects of that access you will have to make customization. However, we say that the trade-offs made by the health insurance companies are subject to supervision. There's a duty of care. If you agree with each other that the rules are so and so, we ask the healthcare authority to ensure that the way in which the health insurance companies are going to shape this for their insured persons will meet the obligation of care to a sufficient extent, because they will not get out of it. You will not get complete uniformity, no matter what we invent, because there is a criterion within which you have to make that individual assessment. However, there is an assessment as to whether the insurer provides care for all the insured persons who need it, whether it is pgbs or care in kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u217	Insurance companies have a very important responsibility. This also applies to care in kind as well as to pgbs. These are not contradictory matters; we have exchanged them here before. For both, they must pay attention to efficiency and quality. They are, however, just like "you have to be able to handle it" part of that set of uniform criteria. If you can handle it, if it's effective, if it's qualitatively good, that's a uniform set. Would it not be possible to find the basis for this, both for the insured and for the insurer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u218	Actually, I'm thinking differently. It doesn't do you much good when you say that this is the review list. It has to be qualitatively good, it has to be effective, it has to be able to manage it and some other points. This will still depend on the judgment of the health insurance provider, who says: in your case we do this and in your case we do that. That's exactly my point. If you say that you want to be able to steer more sharply where it is not good, whether it is the duty of care or other criteria, then let us retain those possibilities that are also created in the law so that we can do it very focusedly. Otherwise, we'll write down what we think offers uniformity, but at this stage I don't know what kind of uniformity we'll offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u219	This surprises me, because we are dealing with criteria that are contained in three other laws. We didn't just write anything down in there either. Of course, there is always an organisation, a municipality, a health care office or an insurer, I agree with the Secretary of State who has to make a decision. You can either agree with that or you can't. If you don't agree with it, there is now......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Eventually, there's a set of rules that you have to stick to. We didn't just pour it into the Wlz or into the other laws. It appears to be a manageable list in practice. It's not just a list. This one works in those three other laws, too. Why not in the Health Insurance Act? Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u220	We can do it with the same potential discussion. I would point out that in the Wmo it is the municipality that has to assess what an appropriate provision is. We have given the municipality a great deal of freedom to determine in which case a personal budget is provided. We have had a debate on this in this Chamber. The Wlz is tighter. It contains an independent indication, that is access. This includes a care profile and then it is determined how it is further designed, with home visits and conscious choice calls. Given the system of the Health Insurance Act and the purchasing role of insurers, the Health Insurance Act is a bit in between. The indication is carried out by professionals and the care purchase takes place on the basis of guidelines agreed with the parties. In view of the sounds from the field and the sounds of the Chamber, I understand that we want to keep a closer eye on this, with a kind of reinforced dike monitoring: fine, but we want to look at the facts, the monitoring, the disputes and the monitor to see if there is a need to tighten up these criteria, which are then adapted to the practice. We will then be able to see better on the basis of which it is or will not be refused and what is the situation with regard to this balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u221	Finally, Mr Van Dijk? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u222	I know. I am still thinking, because that is actually the question raised by Mr Van der Staaij. He's still a little puzzled whether or not that AMvB gets there. If everything goes well, you could put the administrative agreement in there. If things aren't going well, you could tighten it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u223	That's pretty much how I look at it pragmatically. We're getting different sources of information. There's an amendment with a veil. On that basis, we can also say to each other: how do we feel about that? There will be differences in how that is appreciated. Then we do not have a quickscan based on the opinions of the health insurance companies, because that is not enough. Then we do have monitoring results and dispute results. Radboud University looks at how things are going in practice. If that's what we want, you might want to tighten up a little bit. If it doesn't go well, then we have to want it. Without minimising the differences, the discussion is in the end: are you going to lay down rules in advance that you are not sure what you're doing?I'm overreacting or are you just looking at how things are going in practice? If it doesn't work out, you can tell me exactly where else to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u224	Without following the first part of the debate, I have the impression that we are going somewhere. I had already given Mrs Voortman the floor, so did Mrs Dik-Faber, but not Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u225	The VVD made it clear in the first period that the health insurance law system is important, that we have to be careful and that the importance of the balance sheet, which the Secretary of State also points out, is great. The Secretary of State also discusses the purchasing role of health insurers and in particular the responsibility and duty of care for clients. Now I hear a lot: AMvB, rules setting, front, supervision, regulation, babysitting, things may go wrong. I would like to know why the Secretary of State also believes that this purchasing role should be large and that health insurers should be able to take up their role in this. I think the balance is now turning a bit towards one side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u226	I have made a rather comprehensive argument about the importance of the assignment we give to insurers for selective quality-based care purchases as an essential part of making care more personalised, qualitatively sound and cost manageable. That is why it is important to give this role and to set good criteria for it from the point of view of duty of care. I have also indicated that we must avoid some kind of competition between care in kind and personal budgets. I do not want health insurers to be able to sit back: I have been given the list of pgbs to be provided. So yes, that purchasing role is very important. That is exactly why I want to keep that balance, with one remark. There's a reason in the law that we can make an AMvB. If the Chamber thinks that it is not going well, then I think that we should follow this procedure properly and that it is primarily up to the parties to discuss it: what do we think about it, do we come up with further proposals? If we're unhappy with each other, we have that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u227	I think that's the right order. There is now an amendment for a suspension procedure, which we will support, to look precisely at what is really necessary at that time and how we will ensure that the system, in which this balance is so important, is balanced. I'm assuming that we're just gonna handle exactly what's needed and really nothing more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u228	I see you have already contributed to that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u229	I'll take a look around. After this 55-minute Interruption Round, is there any need for further interruptions on this point? I see that's the case. Then we'll go on for a while, but then I'm gonna watch the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u230	This is my last interruption I had already announced about the access criteria. I have taken one of the three amendments. It must be adequate quality care, someone must be able to handle the pgb responsibly, there must be responsible care and there must be a budget plan. My question to the Secretary of State is where these access criteria are unreasonable. They just work well in other laws. The Secretary of State has said that he wants to wait and see the reports, that he wants to wait for the monitoring. Where are these criteria unreasonable, so unreasonable that we cannot take any further steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u231	They're not unreasonable at all. They're in the administrative arrangements. The second question could be: what do we want to do with putting it in the law? It is in itself special to say at the front that it should be reasonable, that it should be accessible and that you should be able to manage. Those criteria aren't that crazy for the budget holder either. It is still a matter of the health insurance provider's judgement. In that case, he must say: here and not here. Then I would prefer to say on the basis of established facts, of things that are not going well, where the tightening up should take place. I think that we are doing more than we are trying to formulate criteria at the front that give the budget holder little certainty. I really want to see how things are going in practice. I want to listen to the budget holders and hear what their perception is about landing those personal budgets properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u232	I think the Secretary of State and I really disagree here. I think it will certainly provide legal certainty for the insured but also clarity for the health insurers themselves. I think we're just making it really hard on ourselves. The Secretary of State says he wants to wait for the monitoring and the reports. However, we are already hearing signals from practice that things are not going well. Should it be 50% good, should it be 70% good or should it be 90% good? When are we coming with an AMvB? Isn't what we're about to do moving the discussion forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u233	No, not as far as I'm concerned. It's the discussion when we know the facts. The weighing of these will be the same with you all or different. But then we can talk about the facts of the matter. I think that is very essential. Otherwise we're going to introduce something to the front, of which there are also several images. I take all the signals seriously. If the health insurance companies with that quickscan say they're carrying out the administrative arrangements well, I'll take note of that. However, that is not the independent research that we are doing. So I'm not gonna base myself on that. In my view, Mrs Leijten was right to say that I hope I am not using her improperly, but of course I would not do so anyway. I think that the idea of how things are going in practice should not only be based on the rejections, but also on how things are going in broad terms. Then we really have an idea of how things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u234	Then I give the floor to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u235	Mr. Chairman. I think it's gonna be a lot faster after this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u236	That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u237	I think so. The Secretary of State is just asking what we gain from it if we recognise these criteria, in my opinion, I put my own amendment "in the law." I think that we will win by this that we have a clear set of uniform criteria that people can derive some certainty from. This also creates clarity for insurers. I don't really understand the Secretary of State's constant opposition to this. What is the reason for being unclear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u238	I am trying to argue in substance why I think we can be sharper, so to speak. There will always be a number of criteria that you think you should weigh when assessing the pgb, such as whether you can manage it and what about efficiency. These criteria do not provide certainty in advance or uniformity. This will depend on individual assessment. I hope Mrs Voortman agrees with me. Some of these criteria require an assessment from the health insurance provider. They do not lead to uniformity or greater legal certainty. A number of other criteria may prove in practice that they need to be changed. I would like to base it on how things are going in practice rather than saying here beforehand, on the basis of signals from insurers or budget holders: let us do so. I'm not much for that. So I very much agree that it may be necessary to tighten up these criteria. In fact, I have announced that we will have a number of sources that will allow us to reach a judgment on how things are going. If necessary, we can make such an AMvB in consultation with the parties. I would not like to see that as a very fundamental difference. Let's make sure it fits in a little bit with the way we made that Health Insurance Act, and let's base ourselves on how things work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u239	I hear now that the Secretary of State says that we do not actually disagree on the list of criteria that are also contained in the Long-Term Care Act. Then let's agree that we'll put it in the law. Can you manage it et cetera? That is what we are trying to do, and that we can arrange for those other criteria, which we may not yet be able to come up with, by AMvB. Would that be a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u240	Not in my view, because it adds little to the question of whether it gives uniformity and certainty. You're not gonna tell us what we already have in the administrative arrangements and for which we've set up a whole supervisory system. I said: let us make these administrative arrangements part of the supervisory framework. Then, I think, we have enough safeguards in place to make that a good process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u241	I thought it was an extremely sharp and rightful remark from Mrs Voortman. She says: we have these three access requirements in the Long-Term Care Act; why don't they be incorporated into the Health Insurance Act?; And we're gonna stick with that now. My question to the Secretary of State is once again: why doesn't he just take those three access criteria from the Long-Term Care Act? Well, let's take care of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u242	I've said that a few times. The reviews that take place in the Wmo, the Long-Term Care Act and the Health Insurance Act are different in character, because there are other players with different laws. It's just that if we anchor the pgb in the Health Insurance Act, we need to see what's going on in that law. If we're gonna anchor the pgbs in the Long-Term Care Act, we're gonna have to see what's in that law. I have already said in reply to Mrs Bergkamp that we have made a whole list of these. We have looked at how these different anchors have taken place, given the players and the character of those different laws. I have tried to point out that, although this was designed in a different way, it was based on the same basic principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u243	For the CDA, the Long-Term Care Act and the Health Insurance Act focus on the budget holder, not the system. But let's take a look at the function of legislation. We can work together here in the Chamber in two ways, I learned from the legislative course when I was still working at the Ministry of the Interior. You can be standardizing. You can determine what you want with each other and you can define a practice that is so. I hear almost everyone here in the Chamber saying: let's be standard; let's say how we want it. The Secretary of State says, "Let's wait and see what happens." What does the Secretary of State object to us making legislation that is standard-setting here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u244	I have nothing against that, of course, but I am trying to give my substantive arguments as to why I would like to embed a few points in the Health Insurance Act. The first is the incredibly important point that pgb is anchored as an instrument in the Health Insurance Act. That's really a totem pole, so to speak. The second is that we give parties, both budget holders and health insurance companies, the opportunity to make agreements with each other, as with all other forms of care, and to make guidelines on how they are going to do it. The third is that in the system of the Health Insurance Act there is the possibility to intervene if necessary. Then I think it's appropriate to do so if necessary. Whether that is necessary, we assess on the basis of the facts. You can think differently. You can also say: I want to set the standard on the front. I find that to be a disadvantage and I have tried to convey it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u245	I feel that we are beginning to repeat ourselves. I'm just pointing that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u246	I think it is a step forward for the Secretary of State to say that he really wants to be standard-setting. The only request I'm hearing right now is: take over the three standards from the Long-Term Care Act, make sure you're standard-setting and let the rest see how it goes in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u247	I've argued why I don't think that's a good idea. The standard-setting character is about: you have to make sure you can manage it; you have to be careful about its effectiveness; you have to assess its effectiveness. That means "up front" for the budget holder not so much. If I want to be standard-setting, I want to do that very precisely on the basis of the question of what is needed. That is perhaps where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u248	There's a big difference between this Chamber and the Secretary of State. We now have a year of experience in allocating personal budgets by health insurance companies. This leads the Chamber to say: we want uniform access criteria so that there is no difference between insurer X, Y or Z, and we want to put a certain degree of legal certainty in the law. We take into account that hidden risk selection is taking place. That's what the NZa report says we got on Friday. And it's clear that a majority of the Chamber says those criteria are going to come. After a long discussion which clearly shows that we disagree, the question remains: does the Secretary of State accept it if the Chamber does put those access criteria in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u249	That's a curious question. We are having a substantive debate here on the law, the anchoring and the conditions. There are amendments to it. I gave advice on that. We have a strong debate on this. This should ultimately lead to a Court ruling on how it votes on all these amendments. That's gonna have to prove it. It is a good thing that we have a good debate on the content and that we have a good exchange of arguments so that Mrs Leijten can make a good weight. I am sure she will make a good weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u250	I have the idea that we have put forward wheelbarrows full of arguments: there is risk selection; there are similar access criteria in several other laws; we want the personal budget, even if it is anchored, not to be eroded by the ability of health insurers to use it fairly randomly. The Secretary of State doesn't go into any of those arguments, but he comes up with a system response. He says, "We'll figure it out together." But he forgets that a health insurance company is much more powerful and has much longer time than an individual budget holder and his family. They can't wait for the time when the health insurance company pays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u251	This is beginning to look like a second time rather than an interruption. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u252	I would simply ask the Secretary of State to do the following. Suppose we don't come out, he doesn't get his way, and he hasn't convinced the Chamber. Does he accept that the Chamber sets access criteria in the law or allows them to enter into force by General Measure of Management?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u253	That's two things. We have discussed a number of issues with each other and exchanged cartloads of arguments. That's good, too. We have a debate for that too. We have talked about the risk selection. I have indicated that this is different here than in the report of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. Mrs Leijten cannot agree with me, but I have argued that. I have argued how this law ensures that we are not only anchoring but also monitoring the duty of care. I have also indicated to Mrs Leijten that a number of further guarantees can be made. I have also indicated to Mrs Leijten that, if necessary, there is also the possibility of further clarification in the law. I understand that Mrs Leijten wants to make the difference very big, but to my liking we have exchanged arguments. If we have a debate in the Chamber, we must exchange arguments and then Mrs Leijten must consider which amendments she is voting for or not voting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u254	I note that after a long discussion and many interruptions, including myself, we have not come to an agreement. There will then be a situation where the Court will probably decide what the Secretary of State expressly claims not to want. What happens then? Does the Secretary of State accept it if the Chamber decides otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u255	Shall we just have the debate first, wait for the votes and then see what happens? I can also ask Mrs Leijten if she will accept it if there is a vote other than what she hopes for. I don't want to ask you that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u256	The Secretary of State could ask me to do that. I have to accept that, because that is democracy. A lot of decisions are being made here that I would have liked to see different. My role is then trying to get a majority to eventually move in the right direction. That's what a secretary of state should say. It should also say: okay, if there is a majority for a route that is different from what I intended, I accept that. That was the question at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u257	I argue with my arguments why I have discouraged some of the amendments and not some of the amendments. Then we simply have to wait for the Court's opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u258	In any case, we have debated it thoroughly, with quite a lot of interruptions as well. The Secretary of State continues his speech. I would point out that, in my view, quite a lot of what is likely to be in that speech has been brought forward during the interruptions. So perhaps the Secretary of State can sort out his documents and come to a rough selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u259	I cannot escape the impression that there is some wishful thinking in the President's suggestion, but I will do it too. I will look at the specific questions to see if I have already answered them. Mrs Leijten asked me whether I would like to promote the deliberate choice of interviews. I agree with Mrs Leijten that these deliberate choices are important instruments. The already mentioned administrative arrangements also include the possibility for health insurers to make a conscious choice. This is also included in the model regulations of all insurers. In the quickscan, on which some further information will come later, we looked at what is now the practice. Some health insurers have a conscious interview with all applications and some insurers only do so if they think that the information is not complete or if they intend to refuse an application. All in all, I share Mrs Leijten's view that it is important to conduct conscious choice discussions. As far as the basic rate is concerned, I would point out that the underlying regulation already contains safeguards to enable it to do so. I think it takes time to assess whether that is necessary. There is therefore room to opt for such a variant in the future, but at the moment, given the other safeguards, I do not see any reason to do so. Mrs Leijten asked why health insurers are so difficult when a family member provides care. She referred to the letter from DSW. I do not see the difference outlined by Mrs Leijten, because I believe that all health insurers see the benefit of the use of informal care. DSW points to that, too. The underlying discussion is about what informal care can you normally expect and what informal care is eligible for a pgb, if only in support of the client or patient concerned. I want to talk about this further with Per Recht and Zorgverzekerings Nederland. There is a lot of discussion about this. It needs to be made clearer what exactly the role of informal care is and when you decide whether or not to make a decision. I will therefore continue to discuss this point with Health Insurance companies Netherlands and Per Balance. An overview of all re-indications and hours has been requested. I don't have that overview. I send the figures on expenditure within the health care department of the Zorginstituut Nederland to the Chamber every quarter. That will also happen at the end of this quarter. I can see, however, that the budget for community care, euphemistically speaking, is not going to be lower than it was. I am very careful to draw conclusions from this, but this could indicate that quite a lot is being contracted. But again: we will give the exact figures on this later. It has also been asked why no appeal procedure has been provided for as in the Long-Term Care Act. It's different. In the Long-Term Care Act, the pgb is a subsidy. In this context, the General Administrative Law provides the possibility of appeal and appeal. The Health Insurance Act is private law but also offers an objection and appeal possibility. First of all, it provides for a re-evaluation of the health insurance provider, secondly, the involvement of the Ombudsman as a mediator and thirdly, the involvement of the SKGZ, of which I have given the full name. The SKGZ is about the disputes in the care and can therefore make a decision and review which the health insurance companies then have to carry out. I have proposed speeding up procedures with regard to both the Ombudsman and the SKGZ. Moreover, I do not rule out the need for additional resources; we will discuss this further in consultation with the SKGZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u260	That's fine, but before you get to the SKGZ, you have to visit the Ombudsman first and you have to visit the health insurance company twice more. It is therefore wise to invest in order to shorten the SKGZ procedures, but make sure that the journey is reduced by the health insurance provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u261	The first route is of course that you ask the health insurance provider for a review, but the route is also that, if you are not satisfied, you can go to the Ombudsman and then in a formal sense also to the SKGZ. If the health insurance companies are also doing it faster, that will of course help the budget holders. Mrs Bruins Slot is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u262	We already had that SKGZ once...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u263	That's the Stichting Complaints and Disputes Health Insurance. My point for the Secretary of State is that he can try to speed it up at the end of the journey, but to make it really fast, I would also speed up those two steps for it. Does the Secretary of State intend to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u264	Wherever I can promote it, I will. After all, the faster you get through the review, the faster you can weigh up whether you want to take another step. However, I also think it is important that it is not only the health insurance provider who has to reconsider something, but that the pgb holder can also go to the Ombudsman or the SKGZ to obtain his formal right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u265	I am considering whether I can make an amendment on this point. If that could become unnecessary or if a motion could become superfluous, it would be worth a sweet thing to me. I'd like to see what the Secretary of State promises us now. The re-evaluation by the health insurance company can now take forever. Can we agree that we have to do it in four weeks? And do you have to go to the Ombudsman to get to the SKGZ, the Stichting Complaints and Disputes Healthcare Insurance, or is it an option? Can the Secretary of State explain this very clearly, or else write it very briefly and clearly in a letter to the Chamber? In any case, when people come to us, we can at least tell them what the complaints system is and what steps they should take. It is now a question mark for people where they can go and it is almost a favour to get a re-evaluation, especially with the deadlines that I sometimes hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u266	The Secretary of State may, with his reply, prevent an amendment and/or motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u267	Speaking of expectations management, Chairman. First of all, you should be able to contact the insurer if you do not agree with his decision. I don't have what the deadline is in my head, but we can still see that. You can then refer to the Ombudsman for mediation. You're free to do that. You can formally contact the SKGZ. I also hear that sometimes it takes a long time. That is exactly why I want to talk to the SKGZ to shorten the procedures as much as possible. Moreover, the Ombudsman's trajectory often appears to be very good and much shorter. My view was not that there was a great deal of misunderstanding, but I would still like to look with the parties at how complaints and disputes are structured and what the rights of the budget holders are to go there. I would be happy to take a look with the parties to see whether we would not be able to bring that to the fore. I agree with Mrs Leijten that it must be very clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u268	For me, it is a surprise that you can go to the Ombudsman, because I think the Ombudsman is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u269	This concerns specifically the Ombudsman's Health Insurance Office. There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u270	Okay. I would like it very much if it were clear what the procedure is and what rights you can derive from it. In the end, we are not only concerned that this procedure is fast, but also that it is good, with perseverance. If it's all a little "possible" now, that's not enough for me. Can the Secretary of State promise to send us a letter in the short term stating exactly what he thinks is better than what we have now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u271	I assume it's for the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u272	Of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u273	I'd like to do that. Mrs Leijten says, "Better than we have now." We have this now and I want to speed it up on a number of points. I come now to her own risk point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u274	Mrs. Bruins Slot, for precision and fine grinding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u275	Yes. I have a point of order. I didn't hear the Secretary of State say he's gonna send that letter. I would like to have it for the second term, because it is quite a step-by-step plan that one has to go through. I would like to see a very precise indication of where the acceleration will take place, and how much that will yield.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u276	This means that you are de facto making a second order proposal, namely that the second term should not take place today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u277	Let us put it this way: in principle before the second term, under the condition that we decide later when that second period will take place. Is that an intermediate solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u278	All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u279	I'll send that letter as soon as I can. If we are right after this deadline, I do not promise that the letter will be there for the second term. He will at least be there for the votes. I come to the set-off of one's own risk. We have already answered written questions from Mrs Leijten. A health insurance provider who has a claim on an insured person may, according to the Civil Code, settle it with a payment. Similarly, an open own risk of the contributor may be offset against a pgb payment. That has some degree of reasonableness, because you get something from and have to pay something to the same creditor. So it seems reasonable to me that this should happen. Insured persons who would be in trouble could, moreover, make a payment arrangement with their health insurance provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u280	I've had this answer twice before. I try to convince the Secretary of State with arguments that this does not do justice to the equivalent position of pgb in relation to care in kind. Because in the case of care in kind, you can also say that there is some kind of claim. You're entitled to care in kind. You're not gonna take a morning off because there's still a risk to be paid somewhere. It's my concern that the choice of a pgb puts you in a disadvantage. Can the Secretary of State try again along that line to embrace the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u281	Mrs Leijten quite rightly concludes that we have already exchanged answers several times. If you have to pay something you haven't done it yet but it has to be done and you get money from the same person on the other hand, isn't it reasonable to settle that with each other? I'd like that, too, otherwise you'll be getting some administrative shit about it again. The Civil Code makes this possible. It would be very complicated if you had a debt and a claim with the same person and then got something but didn't pay what you had to pay. I'd find that unpleasant, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u282	There are people who have a very big debt to the health insurance provider because they have not been able to pay or have not been able to pay their contributions for a long time. If they were eligible for community care and wanted to use their pgb for that purpose, all these deadlines would be written off immediately. You can end up in situations like that. In my view, it is wrong to say that you are entitled to care, and that care is not subject to any of our own risks, because we do not have any brake money on community nursing, but it can be deducted from your own risk. I understand that this is how the Civil Code works, but I find the reasoning in the Health Insurance Act for the pgb and its own risk to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u283	No, there can be no question that you wouldn't get any care, because you're just entitled to care. So if you can't afford it, there is a payment arrangement possible. That's how it's gonna have to be solved. Mrs Leijten also asked whether a maximum percentage should be set for mediation agencies. I agree with her that we have to be incredibly careful how things are with mediation agencies. I see very good mediation agencies, which take a lot of work out of the budget holder's hands. I also see mediation agencies where I have the same doubts as Mrs Leijten: would that go well and wouldn't that be paid a lot of money? However, budget holders are free to spend their budget. For this purpose, they employ a mediation agency. It's complicated, then, as a government, to set rules on how much money can be paid for it. I agree with Mrs Leijten that sometimes percentages are paid which are not good. I would also like to look together with Per Recht and other client organisations to see if we can do a lot of information: if you use mediation agencies, you have to pay attention to this. But it goes too far for me to say now at a pgb, where people can decide their own money, that you cannot spend it on this. I agree with her concerns, by the way. Not only Mrs Leijten but others have asked about the AGB codes. In order to qualify for the rates, the health care provider must indeed have an AGB code. He can pull that code from Vektis. Insured persons have been informed through the policy conditions. All kinds of information tools have also been set up. Per Balance and Vektis have provided information. I am prepared to inform the Chamber in writing in the short term of the number of pending and granted applications. After all, questions were asked about the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u284	When will you inform the Chamber in writing? I have the troublesome habit of always wanting to know a date when something is promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u285	I get it. We will forward the letter on the AGB codes to the Chamber in the first quarter. So that's March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u286	So it's no later than the end of March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u287	This is the last time I'm gonna hint at the term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u288	If you mention a date in the future, you won't hear me squeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u289	March 32nd, Chairman. Now I'm going into the signs of fraud. If health insurers have signs of possible fraud, I think it is indeed very important that they act as cleverly as possible. I paraphrase Mrs Leijten just for a moment to ensure that the bird has not flown and that fraud can be detected. There was a criminal bet by the SZW inspection. The state's attorney's office has also been intensified. We have allocated extra resources for this, as the Chamber has been able to read. More fraud cases can now be taken on an annual basis. We are also strengthening cooperation. We get a central hotline for the care fraud in which all the organisations involved, i.e. the health insurance companies, the municipalities, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Inspectorate SZW are gathered together to exchange fraud signals and then to shape them, I let it be formulated as an intelligent action. This will allow regulators and investigation services to exchange early signals of fraud and thus take action. They asked if you could invade. There are a number of hooks and eyes to that. The purpose of the fraud hotline is to exchange the signals that exist and then to decide who is taking action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u290	Reporting points and coordination: it all sounds very nice. The situation is that health insurers do receive signals, but they lay them down. Nothing's gonna happen to that. Then it is said: arrange for evidence, because then we can do something. But if you're looking for evidence, you have to allow an unlawful situation to continue. Nobody wants that, because there is often abuse, financial exploitation and theft. I specifically ask whether investigation services can raid and confiscate at the request of health insurers or at the discretion of health insurers. So I ask whether they can take concrete action. Is the Secretary of State prepared to talk about that and make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u291	Mrs Leijten can be convinced that I would like to go as far as possible on that point. If there are signals, we must be able to intervene. Then you have to take the action necessary for that. The comment I make about this is that if anyone suspects that there is fraud, you must also have some evidence to invade. You can't just say: I've heard from someone that there might be fraud and that's why I'm going to collect material from you. The investigation service will need a reasonable level of evidence to be able to take further action. Besides, you always have to weigh where you do it or not. That's how the law works. We are now exchanging fraud information so that we can take action. It is only a question of whether you can actually look, because that is, of course, also surrounded by a number of safeguards that we have all regulated in law. However, I agree with Mrs Leijten. We must go as far as possible to tackle fraud as deeply as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u292	It's as annoying as it looks that you're close to each other, but you know that it doesn't happen or is rejected in practice. Is it possible for the Secretary of State to inform us in the near future exactly what is being reported at that hotline and how is being detected? Or do people who report every time get to hear: figure it out or collect more? The number of cases surrounding the pgb is not getting much bigger and it is always things that are far in the past, while we know that it is happening at the moment. You want to do justice to those things from the distant past, but you also want to see action taken now. And that's what matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u293	I understand Mrs Leijten's impatience very well. As I know, we will shortly be sending the Chamber another report on the state of the fraud and its handling, including cooperation between the various bodies. I promise to include this point in this report in particular, so that we can discuss it if necessary. Mrs Bruins Slot asked how pgb, which is a special form of restitution, relates to one's own direction. Do I see the pgb as an equivalent instrument? This concerns the particular situation of the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. Restitution is already in that law. There is thus already a way in which the insured person can choose his own caregivers. The pgb is a special variant of that refund. Both provide the insured person's own direction. It is clear that I, too, think the pgb-holder's own direction is most important. That is exactly why we have included the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. As in the other domains, the choice for a pgb is up to the insured person, provided that he meets the conditions. But it's true that the Health Insurance Act has an additional possibility. You can already choose the refund variant. Does the advantage lead to legal inequality because no insured person receives an advance, either in kind care or in return? Mrs. Bruins Slot made the comparison with the hospitals, but there it is really different to my taste. One of the reasons for discussing how we deal with the provision of pgbs at the time was that we no longer wanted to deposit money into the budget holders' own accounts. If you now proceed to a pgb with an advance, we will in fact reverse it. In my letter, I indicated that I am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u294	But that means that the Secretary of State says that pre-emption is actually possible. He doesn't want to, but he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u295	It may be considered differently by now, but we have decided here by a majority to refrain from making advance payments, making cash available in the budget holder's account. If we are going to give an advance now, we are actually going to do it again. And that's not why I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u296	In response to my amendment, it seemed as if some sort of legal inequality would be created, but the Secretary of State is now saying that it is possible to make concessions, but that he is not in favour of them. Is my conclusion correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u297	That conclusion is also correct, but the majority of the Chamber was not in favour when we talked about the pgbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u298	I have a question about the same point. How does the fact that there is no pre-emption relate to the necessary flexibility and tailor-made care that we ask each other? Aren't the two of them mutually exclusive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u299	I don't think so. At least you don't have to. The regulations in the Health Insurance Act allow for flexible use of care. In some cases, that is highly desirable. The question of care can fluctuate. In one period it can be different than in the other. This also applies to the interchangeability of care functions. I can see that this does not always go well in practice. It's not going to be a good deal. With Zorgverzekerings Nederland, Per Recht en Verzorgingen & Verzorgenden The Netherlands, I agreed to look at the problems on the basis of the practical examples, especially in the case of intensive child care. Of course, this flexibility and interchangeability must be possible. You just have to be able to make agreements about that when the pgb is awarded. The agreements on intensive child care will, of course, also have effects for other budget holders. I agree that there must be flexibility. It can also be agreed in advance. Where this is not enough, I will drive it with parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u300	I'm glad the Secretary of State picks this up and takes the signals from the field seriously before we get the monitor in April. I think it is very important that we now listen to the signals from practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u301	Mrs Bruins Slot spoke about guaranteed aid. It is also included in the administrative arrangements. Provisions concerning the representation of the insured person may be included. Mrs. Bruins Slot referred to the Long-Term Care Act. Indeed, the concept of guaranteed aid was used for the first time. There too, it is not laid down in the law but in the lower regulation. This makes it a little easier to respond to future developments, as it is not yet fully crystallized to which conditions guaranteed assistance must be met and when you are eligible for guaranteed assistance. That is why I also indicated in my response to the amendment that I really want to take a moment to define criteria on this point in order to discuss very well what we mean by 'aid guaranteed', which also provides sufficient guarantees for the budget holder that no wrong choices are made. That is why I did not recommend the amendment; not because it would be a bad idea, but because we need some time to tighten up what is'safe aid' and what it has to meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u302	Mrs. Brown Slot, is the answer not clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u303	I think the Secretary of State is saying something that is also in the amendment. The amendment works with an AMvB, so that this flexibility can be achieved. How should the amendment be amended so that this flexibility is completely clear to the Secretary of State? He can come back to that later, but we work with an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u304	That possibility of an AMvB is already in the law. We just talked about that in another context. We could also use it when we have the criteria for guaranteed aid more clearly. Then we can use that AMvB to illustrate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u305	Then you would only explicitly refer to the guaranteed help as an access criterion, while it is actually something where you see if the person responsible for another person can also take care of the care. That would make it a much scarier instrument and that would be a loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u306	That AMvB is talking about conditions for access. A provision on the representation of the insured person could also be included. You say something about the conditions under which the insured person is entitled or not. Our analysis is that you can also include a provision on representation. Maybe that's something to specify in the second term. Mrs Bruins Slot asked about the state of play of the discussions on implementation. There she asked her question about all the parties involved, such as health insurers, Per Balance and the Social Insurance Bank. I assume a little bit that she also asked about the handling of the declarations and the support that the Social Insurance Bank offers to the salary administration of the budget holders. Good agreements have now been made. The service will continue in 2016 and will also be reviewed with all parties to see whether this can be further improved in 2017. We had a discussion about the WMG and the rates that are in line with the WMG. There is a distinction between formal and informal care. In formal care, the rates set by the Healthcare Authority on the basis of the WMG are relevant. The compensation provided by insurers with a health insurance pgb must comply with this requirement. For informal care, an informal rate has been introduced as in the Long-Term Care Act. A certain differentiation has been introduced. There are further investigations in consultation with the parties to consider whether further differentiation should be made on the basis of the investigations. This needs to be worked out in the AMvB that we have to make anyway in order to further implement the law. I would now like to make a specific comment on the problems that have been identified with regard to intensive care. I am very aware of the fact that parents of children in particular who need intensive child care run into incredibly many problems. I have spoken to these parents a number of times, and each time I am impressed by the problems they have to overcome on a daily basis in order to ensure that care for their child remains good or is changed if necessary. I have also experienced very strongly that whatever we invent with each other, children who need intensive child care, need so much care and care measures from different domains that whatever you invent, it always remains a huge quest. I am therefore always trying to agree that we are going to try to help these parents in a practical way with their problems with education, long-term care, the Health Insurance Act or the appointments with the hospital. That's in full swing. We try to do that with all parties, but we do in the knowledge that parents of children with intensive child care, whatever we arrange with each other, will always face a lot of problems. So we are going to work with them very practically by trying to solve bottlenecks. Furthermore, I listen very carefully to the parents of children with intensive child care, because they are already having a hard enough time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u307	It is very good to hear from the Secretary of State that it is important that these parents experience as little practical problems as possible. However, it is not just about the parents, but also about the transfer nurses. They say: it is sometimes very unclear what personal care or daily consumption is covered by. Isn't that better taken care of? I also ask that because we have raised a lot of bulkheads together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u308	There are, but sometimes that is almost inevitable because what you have to arrange often covers a lot of different domains. However, I am not prepared to accept it, and I will therefore clean up bulkheads if possible and necessary. Because you need resources from so many different domains and because the situation of a child may vary per year, per month and sometimes per day, it can be seen that what you have just conceived needs to change. I am very willing to clean things up if necessary, but I say this explicitly in the awareness that we should above all try to give parents practical support when they run into a bottleneck. When parents run up against a wall, of course, they need help. That's really hard, but we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u309	Thank you! Soon we will have a general discussion on intensive child care. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to make it more specific in view of this consultation. Is he willing to look at the border from 0 to 5 years? I ask that because these children are first in intensive child care and then under the Wlz, because the Wlz does not apply to children from 0 to 5. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at these different bulkheads and the uncertainties for transfer nurses and parents, and to inform us before the AO about what he sees as a solution? These can be practical solutions, but also the realization that we need one less shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u310	I would like to try to do so, also in preparation for the debate. Maybe I can take another point with me. There are parents who want to do a number of things themselves, while intensive child care organisations think that it should actually be done in an institution. That tension field is constantly playing, and that is why we need to consider how to ensure that we can facilitate and facilitate what parents want, while at the same time being able to properly assess what is or is not responsible. I always notice in meetings that this tension leads to a lot of discussion and that people are very different in this. It would be worth a sweet thing to me to take a step here, too. So I am extending my commitment, because I will take this point with me right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u311	Mrs Bergkamp takes the words out of my mouth. I have a small addition. I have received the practical suggestion for supporting parents with children who need intensive child care to start working with one claim in the Health Insurance Act. I understand that this would be a big step, but is the Secretary of State prepared to list the advantages and disadvantages of this in the promised letter? We can then in general discuss this intrusive appeal of this group on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u312	Mrs Dik is now going very far in the standardisation, in my opinion. It is true that, if we want to support people as practically as possible, we must also look at how we can do this with other parties, with municipalities if necessary, with the educational field but also with health insurers. That is what we will certainly take with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u313	The Secretary of State continues his speech. No, Mrs. Bruins Slot appears to have another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u314	There's a think tank of intensive child care, isn't there? Is that a practice team?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u315	Yes. I hope that's gonna be a doo-tank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u316	So it's a practice team. What specific problems has this intensive child care team solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u317	That do-tank's only just arrived. Together with the parents of intensive child care, we are now inventorying the bottlenecks they face. What are things that have to do with bulkheads, Mrs Bergkamp's point, and what are things that you are getting up against as a parent, and where very practical people might be able to help? So it's both tracking system questions, so to speak, and trying to help solve practical things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u318	I know that my colleague Mona Keijzer, like Mrs Bergkamp and others in the Chamber, has been debating intensive child care for over a year now. Last week we had a debate with the Secretary of State on palliative care. In it he said he would have a practical team within a week that will actually solve the problems in practice and help individuals. Why, then, is this not the case, when this problem is as urgent and as painful as that of palliative home care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u319	It is not the case that we start from scratch, because also because of the parents themselves of children who need intensive child care, an incredible amount is happening. I would point out that Mrs Hooglugt, as ambassador to the parents of intensive child care, also has very intensive consultation with pediatricians as well as with insurers to look at the pricing situation. So also the parents do something. We have only said: let us keep each other informed, so that we know what questions you have and can see where we can help and where we cannot help. So it's not like we're gonna start. This process is already under way. Moreover, I believe that we will soon have a separate AO on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u320	Those parents are such huge perseverances! My question, however, is what the Secretary of State is going to do in concrete terms. At the palliative terminal home care he is working concretely and can do it within week. I would like that to happen for this group as well: simply to overcome concrete problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u321	As I said just now, we are just looking at the problems they face with the parents. These may be problems that we can solve because there is a need to change policy or rules, but we want to look at the practical problems they face and perhaps help. People are already discussing that with the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u322	The Secretary of State continues. Is he going to a roundup, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u323	I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions. She asked how the picture in the letter about the quickscan is so different from the picture the Christian Union has of the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. Now, of course, I have to guess which image Mrs. Fat has. That will be fed by the messages she receives. In the quickscan I also made that remark. The room asked for a quick scan. I said that we would put these questions to the health insurance companies. They have given answers to the questions from which a picture emerges. I have said that it is a one-sided image and a first image. The 2015 monitor will need to provide further insight. This question is based on the insurers and examined how they view the implementation of the administrative arrangements. That's what this image comes out of. I am not saying that this is the right picture; we must wait for the monitor to do so. Mrs Dik also raised a specific question about the term 'desquired' which we discussed in the assessment of the amendments. In our view, the Zvw-pgb is awarded 'desvraagd'. That means the insured person can always ask for a Zvw-pgb. He has a right to have it. The possibility is not limited to the moment when the care demand of the insured person changes, because a pgb can also ask if you have been in care for some time, but want to switch from care in kind to a health insurance pgb. Healthcare insurers must inform their insured persons about the possibility of a health insurance scheme. That's included in the policy. Under the Health Organisation Act, information on health insurance, including health insurance, is made public to consumers. So I think there's a lot of information available. It will also be monitored. How are insured persons informed about the right to a specialised customer supporter? That right is settled in the Wmo. Insurers have indicated that they will actively inform clients about this. Customer organisations also inform their insured persons about this. In addition, VWS will highlight in its information the possibility of customer support. We have already talked about the deliberate choice discussions and about the Healthcare Authority. I now come to Mrs Voortman's questions. On her major issue of whether we should optimise the legislative proposal on the basis of the evaluation and experience, we have already had an extensive exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u324	Sure, but Mrs. Dik wants to interrupt on another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u325	There have been two important questions left for me. I will not go through all the questions, but I would like to name these two: the conciliation procedure at the SKGZ and at the Disputes Committee. I understand that the first one lasts about two months, which could lead to something, and the second one about six months, with outliers up to nine months. That's not the point. To what extent can we bring this back? What is real and what is needed financially? If we're gonna put this on paper, we need to know where we're going with each other. This is important for my group to make a final assessment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u326	In the debate we exchanged about ten minutes ago that I will send a letter to the Chamber before the vote in which I will indicate how the process of objections and the Ombudsman is going. I can take into account how and where we think we can speed up the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u327	And how it gets paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u328	If we need resources for that, we need to see if it's really necessary. In that case, we must accept its consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u329	My second point concerns the amendment I tabled together with Mr Van Dijk to remove the word'maximized' from the definition. The Secretary of State replied that this could not be done, because there would then be no budget. That answer surprises me, because the word "maximized" does not appear anywhere in the other definitions, not in the Youth Act, not in the Wmo and not in the Long-Term Care Act. Suddenly the word is introduced to the definition in the Health Insurance Act. As far as I am concerned, the word'maximized' could be deleted, because it has never been included in other laws either. We can agree that there will be an appropriate, adequate budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u330	This is due to the specific nature of the pgb in the Health Insurance Act. It is a special form of refund. It must therefore be a budget and therefore you must be able to give a maximum, otherwise it would be a refund variant. Well, in that case, you're gonna have to take care of it differently. If you introduce a pgb into the Health Insurance Act as a special form of refund, you need to arrange that it is really a budget. That is the reasoning we have used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u331	Then you have to make sure there's a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u332	No, there's a maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u333	Then we can put it in the amendment. We do, of course, want a budget to be available. But it still has to be an appropriate budget. The word "maximized" could be replaced by "appropriate." The Secretary of State will agree with me, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u334	That it should be appropriate is already covered by the Health Insurance Act. The amendment states that the word "maximised" should be deleted. Of this, I say that this is not a good idea, because then you will remove the characteristic of the pgb in the Health Insurance Act, which is that, unlike the refund policy, it is a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u335	The Secretary of State continues his speech. No, Mr. Van Dijk wants to interrupt. There was another relay stick on the floor, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u336	I was indeed a co-author of the amendment, but there are several amendments dealing with the level of the budget. I think Mrs Dik-Faber and I are pragmatic enough. If the deletion of the word "maximised" means that there is nothing left or that it leads to a problem, then we do not want it. It is not the text of the law, it is the problem that people encounter that sometimes very low budgets are set. So you don't have a de facto pgb. At least you got it, but you can't do it. Can the Secretary of State explain how he's going to tackle that problem? I've asked questions about that, too. How is such a budget established?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u337	Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me when I come back to that in the answer to his questions? If it's okay, it's provided for. Mrs Voortman's questions largely relate to the wide-ranging discussion we have had on whether or not to settle something in advance. She specifically asked about the informal rate. Last year the evaluation of the informal rate was sent to the Chamber. This revealed a number of bottlenecks. We are now in consultation with healthcare insurers Netherlands, Per Recht and VWS to see how we can adopt these recommendations in the AMvB that we still have to make. That's what we've been talking about. Together, we have agreed to do so in the coming weeks and months, so that the situation we are considering can be clarified as soon as possible. In anticipation, health insurers have decided to raise the informal rate somewhat, but to agree with each other on how we will continue to deal with this research. We'll take that with us in the AMvB that the Chamber still gets. Mrs Voortman also asked if the NZa would review the policies and services. The care authority shall ensure that the obligation of care is properly implemented, including in the field of pgbs. Indeed, part of this is the annual ex ante review of the model policies, which concerns the content, size, quality, timeliness and accessibility of care. As I indicated in my letter, I will ask the NZa to pay particular attention to a number of other aspects of the pgbs. By the way, I will also ask the NZa to investigate how the administrative arrangements are included in the policies. Then there is a more detailed interpretation of the duty of care. This will create an additional supervisory guarantee. I will also ask the healthcare authority to report in 2016 on the signals it has received from people on the adequacy of the fees and the steps it has taken on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u338	I have also indicated in my contribution that there are often many more hooks and eyes on switching to another insurer for people with disabilities. I've asked the Secretary of State to answer the question of how he looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u339	The transfer is subject to an acceptance obligation: an insurer cannot refuse a new insured person. In many cases, the problem lies not so much in the package or in the care that is in the policies, but in the supplementary insurance. However, the package itself is subject to an acceptance obligation. Insurers may not refuse an insured person because of age, illness or other matters. This acceptance obligation also applies to pgb-holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u340	But people with disabilities, such as those who have a tool, now take into account that they have to turn in their aid if they switch to another health insurance provider, and that a new tool needs to be organised. Sometimes those are reasons not to switch. How should I see this in the light of the cabinet's assertion that those who do not agree with the way in which the health insurance provider reviews his PGB application can switch to another health insurance provider?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u341	There are sometimes other aspects to switching, for example the taking of devices. Furthermore, there is a separate discussion on whether the towing of devices can be arranged differently. The switch can therefore still be improved, but the most important guarantee we have is that there is an acceptance obligation and that you cannot refuse an insured person on account of a defect, age or other matter. There can indeed be very practical things, for example with tools, but now there are discussions between insurers to make this easier for insured persons. I now come to Mrs Klever's question. The rates are not directly included in the law, as this is an AMvB option that can be used when it is found necessary. It is customary to do so in lower regulation. This has the advantage that the rules can be adapted to new developments. Moreover, this is a principle which also applies to all other regulations. Then there are Mrs Bergkamp's questions. I have already answered the question about the quickscan in replying to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions. The same applies to the question about the SKGZ. I think we have discussed the definition of planned care sufficiently. Oh, I see Mrs Bergkamp is showing that she still wants an answer. The planned care is indeed one of the substantive criteria for obtaining the Zvw-pgb, as included in the administrative arrangements. The agreement is that if an insured person has a care question and meets one or more of the criteria, he or she may qualify for a Zvw-pgb. Let me just mention them: need care at varying or unusual times or locations, need unplanable care as far as it is said: it is not good if people can't go to the toilet 24 hours availability or the need for regular care providers. The unplanned care is especially poorly planned because the care is needed at different times, at short times of the day and on call. Let me be clear, the examples that have been mentioned about suffocation and toilet conditions are examples of unplanned care. Has a separate model been developed for the indication under the Health Insurance Act? No, that's not the case. The indication by the district nurse shall be based on the guidelines drawn up by the field. These are based on the trend of recent years, which is increasingly looking at what people can and cannot do. In setting the indication, the district nurse, more than before the CIZ, looks at what is going on with the caregiver and what someone can or can't do. In the end, it's the neighborhood nurse who determines how much care someone needs. An interesting question has been asked about ensuring the quality of care with a pgb. A crucial element in the pgb and the budget holder is that responsibility for the quality of care lies with the budget holder. In fact, this is no different in the Health Insurance Act than in the other areas. This means that health insurers can be less responsive to quality and efficiency than other care providers. However, I do not know whether this is behind Mrs Bergkamp's question, but I do have a particular responsibility to monitor whether the care purchased by the budget holder actually leads to responsible care. That is a discussion that we will have a few more times with each other. Very formal you say on the one hand: here's your budget and you have to buy the care. In doing so, you assume that the quality of care is being taken into account. On the other hand, there may be concerns as to whether this is going well. The key on the front allows you to manage that well and you have the impression that it is going to be properly arranged. There will be a number of further discussions on this subject. This also applies to the question of whether the indication by district nurses is done in the same way. Mr Van Dijk has said that too. The indication is given by the district nurses. You're entitled to district nurse care like neighborhood nurses who commit to offering. They do so on the basis of the framework of directives drawn up by the field. The sector is also working on new guidelines for community care. They are supportive, because the balance is always with the neighborhood nurse. This also applies to the district nurse who determines what normal care is or may be. It is supported by the same standard framework of Nurses & Verzorgenden Nederland (V&VN). I also think that at this point, how do you deal with usual care? Debates of the European Parliament V&VN is explicitly looking at which handles can be offered to map out how to handle usual care. Do health insurance companies use standards for quality requirements? These are no different than the standards for the procurement of care that the professional groups themselves draw up, often together with patient organisations. Those standards may be used to determine whether the applicant can adequately assess the adequacy of the care. How can health insurers see whether responsible care is provided? This can be done, among other things, by applying the standards of the professions themselves. How are we going to ensure that the budget holder is transparent about exactly what rates apply? Healthcare insurers are obliged to clearly include the rates they apply in the policy, with tariffs also having to be transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u342	I'd like to go back to the standards. My question was about the group of parents and carers. Nowadays, a kind of implementation request is also requested by the health insurance provider, to which the care provider or the parent must comply. Are there standards for that? These are, in particular, reserved acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u343	That was also about the authorization that was sometimes requested. The formal line is that reserved acts may only be carried out in accordance with the BIG Act. Doctors and other caregivers are responsible for the assignments that they and others can carry out on their behalf. The condition in the BIG Act is that the contractor is competent to carry out the reserved actions. The contractor must have sufficient knowledge and experience through training, by continuing training or skill training or by carrying out these activities several times under supervision, so that you can reach a reasonable judgment. Healthcare insurers generally ask that caregivers who have the authorisation of the responsible doctor. That is what they have secured. I will not deny that there can be discussion about whether a healthcare professional feels safe enough to issue that authorisation, but that will normally have to be done on the basis of knowledge and experience or established skill if you have done it a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u344	Actually, that depends on the hospital. There are no general standards. The Secretary of State states that it is important to have an authorisation, for example through the pediatrician. I notice that it can vary between hospitals which requirements are imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u345	In this sense, there are no standards, other than that the healthcare provider must assess whether he or she is competent. Eventually, that's an individual judgment of that health care provider. I recognize that this is the subject of discussion. For example, a parent says: I am much better at it, because I know my child and know exactly what he or she needs; am I competent? I recognize that very much. This should often lead to a discussion between the parent and the caregiver in order to gain that mutual trust. Mrs Bergkamp noted that there are a lot of rules and asked me to do something about them. Yeah, well, that's high on my list, too, just like we swapped before. We are working across the board, together with the Minister, to see what action we can take to remove unnecessary regulation. We will certainly do the same in the area of the Health Insurance Act. I come to the question of the conditions to be met by the carers. In fact, the short answer is that no formal demands are made on the carers, not even on the carers. An important element of the pgb is that the budget holder himself is responsible for the quality of the care provided and that the judgement is up to the budget holder himself. It is therefore also up to the budget holder to determine whether a healthcare professional meets the requirements he or she makes. Among other things, Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether palliative care can also be purchased with a pgb. Palliative care can also be purchased with a pgb. All health insurance companies included that in their policy in 2016. I would like to make a personal comment, namely that I think it is particularly important at that stage that good palliative care should be provided and that you should not be faced with any administrative burden at all. So it's possible. However, I really hope, particularly in this regard, that if you need this care, it will simply be well arranged and that you will not have to find out all of that. But perhaps there are differences of opinion on that, too. Mr Van der Staaij has asked for a moment to reflect on the amendment to item No. 31, which states that the health insurance pgb must be adequate. We have indicated that the insured person can fill in the care as desired with the pgb, provided that he remains within the applicable frameworks. This means that the pgb is provided for the care that the insured person needs. This also implies that the compensation in the form of the health insurance pgb must be appropriate as a result of the obligation to provide care. I shall come back to that later on in response to a question from Mr Van Dijk. That's covered by the Health Insurance Decree. The current rates should be taken into account. In this respect, there is therefore no difference with the ordinary refund. We have considered that if we now say that it must be appropriate and comply with the duty of care, introducing another term raises questions again. Our thesis is that due to the appropriateness standard contained in the Health Insurance Act, there is no difference with the ordinary refund, which is already laid down in the Healthcare Insurance Decision. We consider that to be a sufficient guarantee. Then I come to Mr Van Dijk's questions. I am trying to select the questions that have already been answered in the general debate. I have already replied to the questions on the indication of the district nurse in response to questions from Mrs Bergkamp. How do we ensure that a client knows what his rights are and what measures do we intend to take? I can say a few things about that. The client's rights are also just in policy. However, I can imagine that you don't always have that policy on your bedside table. Healthcare insurers launched a plan in spring 2015 in which they themselves announced that they would make the policies more transparent. That can still be done. Besides, we have client support. So it's settled in the policies. It is particularly important that the health insurance companies provide transparent and customer-friendly information on this, so that everyone knows what is in these policies. One question was: I've already touched it a little bit.What we're doing about it.Children's nurses hardly indicate for pgb anymore, possibly because pediatricians are watching. Parents should always have an opportunity to choose a pgb. In the conversation I had with the parents of IKZ children, I understood that parents do not get that choice or at least feel that they do not get that choice enough. For this reason, I am also in conversation with V&VN, the paediatric nurses and the Dutch Association for Paediatrics to ensure as much as possible that parents are always presented with this choice. The sector also implements the Medical Child Care System. We've talked about that before. The choice between care in kind and pgb has been given a prominent place. Mrs Bergkamp also had a point, namely that intensive child care takes place under the responsibility of the pediatrician. This will therefore have to be coordinated, and we are now working on it. The discussion that takes place is about what you're throwing up now, when you say: I'm fine, I've seen it's responsible care. That is a discussion that really needs to take place between the parents and the pediatricians. We've talked about maximized and appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u346	It is, of course, about what people ultimately get in the budget, whether it is adequate or appropriate. I have given the example of intensive child care where a professional hourly rate is €77, but people with a pgb get up to €53, or the example of care that costs €47, but where people get €27 in pgb. How do we ensure that people end up with a budget that is so high that they can actually do something with it? What does it say and what is it based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u347	You actually have to go back to the question of how that appropriate budget comes about. First of all, such a pgb is provided for the care that the insured person needs. The Health Insurance Decision states that that remuneration should be appropriate......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In practice, therefore, such a pgb rate is derived from what already happens in kind care and refund. There can be turns to that. For example, the care-in-natura tariff will include a capital charge component or an overhead component or other things component. As a rule, you can see that this is derived from the rate that health insurers use in the other forms of care. So they derive a pgb fare from that, but it must be such that it complies with the Healthcare Bar Association Decision. It must therefore be an appropriate remuneration, so that you can purchase the care. The health insurance provider must also be able to fulfil his duty of care by this means. This sometimes leads to discussions about whether it is high enough. You can see that in practice, of course, from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u348	If a budget is not high enough to buy care of it, professional care in this case care, care care or intensive care for the child, does the health insurance provider not comply with his duty of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u349	It has to be appropriate. So you need to be able to buy in the care you're entitled to. If the fee would be so low that it would not allow you to buy appropriate care, you will immediately have a discussion with your health insurance provider about the duty of care. The health insurance provider must ensure that you get the care you are entitled to according to the health insurance provider. You can do that with different forms of care. There are, in part, different rates for this, which may be structured differently, but which will, of course, be derived from each other. We've talked about the AMvB a lot. I would point out that if we consider that this is not going well in general, a minimum or maximum fee can be set in the AMvB. In any event, it is intended that the informal rate for non-professional healthcare providers should be fixed in that AMvB, so that this is also clear to every health insurance provider. Specific questions were asked about the bottlenecks at the informal rate. The investigation into the informal rate has been completed. I sent it to the Chamber last fall. I am not going to look into this again, but I have agreed with ZN and Per Balance that we are going to look together to see how the recommendations can be included in the AMvB, which still has to be made. Health insurers have differentiated and increased the rate in advance, but it is intended to record this in the AMvB, which the Chamber still receives. Mr van Dijk asked what I could do about the thick health plans that the health insurance companies are asking for. I have not yet received very much the signal that this is a much heavier burden under the Health Insurance Act than it was when it was under the AWBZ, but that does not mean that this is not the case in any case. The issue of reducing administrative burdens is a very important one in the renewal agenda which is also being developed on the initiative of Mr Van Dijk. We should not leave that here either. I will see whether we can further reduce the administrative burden of this. Of course, it should not lead to very thick care plans in which we simply move paper. I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u350	Excuse me. I should have walked forward a little earlier, because I would like to go back to the previous point for a moment. In an interrupting debate with Mr Van Dijk, the Secretary of State tried to explain exactly what is going on with "appropriate" and that maximum rate. I would like to make that a little clearer, because I believe that a maximum rate is also intended to make it manageable, even under the Health Insurance Act. This is also intended to impose a certain ceiling on expenditure. Is that the intention of the tariff? I'm starting to find the difference between appropriate and maximum a little confused in the whole discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u351	I will try to clarify that point. There are maximum rates from the healthcare authority. Negotiations and further discussions take place for this purpose, and then they are effectively bought in. We all think that this role is important. This leads to a certain rate. Subsequently, the pgb rates are generally derived from the rates agreed in other sectors as well. In this way, the health insurance companies make efficient purchases. They do not say: there are maximum rates, so we are all going to apply them. But they're looking at how to buy in effectively and whether they can get underneath. Then they try to translate that into all the forms of care they provide, under the condition, which applies to all forms of care, that it must be an appropriate rate so that they can comply with the duty of care. That test's always on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u352	I can follow that reasoning; it does not necessarily have to be the maximum rate. But it is also important that we set a maximum rate because we want to be able to control things. "Perfect" doesn't strike me as a check for spending unbridled money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u353	No, they're not there for nothing. By the way, every year the healthcare authority investigates whether you can purchase appropriate care with the maximum rates. Those investigations shall be repeated periodically by the healthcare authority. There was a specific question about the five-minute declarations. Just after the start of the Zvw-pgb, it appeared that health insurers used five-minute declarations. Parliamentary questions have also been asked about this. On the basis of these signals, the health insurance companies adapted this method in early 2015. Then they joined the M.O. in the AWBZ. So I'm very curious if there are any signs that it's still happening. However, you can make appointments in terms of budget or hours. Then it will be asked how many hours of care has been provided, but the procedure of the five-minute declarations, if it is correct, has been adjusted. It was asked whether the combination was possible with care in kind. That possibility of combination is indeed desirable. This means that the freedom of choice for the insured is indeed greater. According to the Health Insurance Act, that's already possible. It has been agreed with Zorgverzekerings Nederland that this combination possibility of care in kind/pgb is included in the policies for 2016. That is indeed possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u354	I'm looking at the clock a little bit. I believe that the Secretary of State has yet to reply to Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u355	I have another question about the minute registration. I do hear signals that working with monthly amounts is complicated. Can the Secretary of State still respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u356	Then I should know exactly what is complicated, because of course it depends a bit on how you make declarations. I think the deal might be to file it every month. So I'm just trying to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u357	That it still needs to be encrypted to time units; five or ten minutes or perhaps fifteen minutes, but not that you can work with fixed monthly amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u358	I'd be happy to say I'll check that out. Finally, I will reply to Mr Potters. I think we have had an extensive debate on whether or not to settle something at the front. Mr Potters specifically asked whether the application of the macro-control instrument could lead to reimbursement by pgb holders. The budget holder is not a healthcare provider within the meaning of the WMG. This means that the WMG does not apply to budget holders and therefore the MBI cannot be applied to budget holders. The healthcare providers purchased by the budget holder can be covered by the WMG and thus also by the MBI, which concernszzp'ers and regular healthcare institutions. Carers who provide care as a private person, directly resulting from the existing social relationship, I am now beginning to define very well therefore do not fall within the definition of the WMG and therefore do not fall within the scope of the MBI.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u359	Mbi stands for "macrocontrol tool."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u360	Let's do it this way, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to point out, as I said in other debates, that the fact that there is an MBI does not yet say anything about when and to what extent it is being applied. We will first have to consider whether there is a breach of the framework and what its causes are. On this basis, we then come to the question of whether or not the MBI should be applied. Mr Potters' question was about whether the budget holder should pay back, and the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u361	I am looking around to see if there are any more interruptions, because of course I do not want to be accused of allowing them too little. I'm finding there aren't any. This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the Secretary of State. I thank him for his reply. It seems to me, but I am looking at the Members, some of whom I have already seen gawking and rubbing eyes out, that we have to plan the second period at another time, taking into account the promised letter for the second period. I note that Members are in agreement with this.
