ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. Good day, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Good morning, Madam President. The documents we can see through Delegates Portal include an opinion from the Council attorney, the official lawyer of the European Union, on how Treaty law applies to the statement prepared by Prime Minister Rutte with the other 27 Heads of Government. I ask you to share this document in the House of Representatives. I would actually ask the government to make this document public. I understand that negotiations on the treaty or the agreement itself are not public, but the lawyer's advice can be public, just as the country's attorney's advice is sometimes public. It states when it is legal or not, and that is essential for the input into the debate. Mr President, can you spread this around and make it public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	I fully support this request. This only contributes to a transparent debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	A question is being asked about a confidential piece. I can't judge whether this should be public or not. If it's confidential, I think it's just confidential. I hear the Prime Minister wants to explain. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	I also look at the officials, to put it very precisely. I believe that this is not a part of the Netherlands, but a part of the Council. This is therefore covered by normal confidentiality at this stage of decision-making, as is the concept conclusions. So we're not at liberty to spread this. I can't. If we succeed in reaching an agreement, we will then exercise as much transparency as possible, but we cannot do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr President, I am very disappointed. As rapporteur for the Chamber, I drew up an own-initiative paper on openness and infringement of the Access Info Europe judgment. It says that this kind of document must be public. I don't suppose we're gonna settle this today. I get that. However, I would ask you to distribute this document to Members of Parliament now. They can see it. I'm asking you to do this through the messengers. I would ask the government to take a special look at whether it can succeed in convincing the Council to make this public during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	It's a confidential piece. That piece was made available to the public. That's different than spreading it to the members. I understand that this is the status of the document and that this is the way in which confidential documents are handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	Technically, this isn't a secret piece at all. This is because limité documents under European treaties do not require secrecy. Then I'll take a look at the exact qualification of it. The Council has therefore itself laid down guidelines which state that it remains secret. There's no penalty for disclosure. That makes it all worse. Members of parliament may get an internal sentence from you. In the European Union, however, he cannot go to court to prohibit this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	I didn't know I could be punished. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	I believe that Mrs Voortman has suffered from something. That's why I'm officially asking. I think this is a very important piece for the debate. It says when it's public. So I'm asking you to spread it to the members. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's not up to me. I'm looking at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	Once again, this is not a part of the Netherlands, but of the Council. This is covered by the normal procedure for this type of document. They're confidential for inspection. I do not know exactly what is going on between the Chamber and Council documents, but as a government we do not have the opportunity to intervene. I can't. If it succeeds tomorrow, I can only promise that we will then try to apply maximum transparency. Then we will include all these considerations. Then those pieces are covered in a different batter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	I hear here the promise that the documents will be public afterwards and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	I do not know which part you are referring to, because I cannot check it now. My point is this. I understand now that the officials are also writing along what you would like to have. Everything we can give, we give, but I cannot give a firm guarantee on this right now. Now we cannot do that, but afterwards we will give what we can give, as we always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	This is the document of which eight MPs requested disclosure two days ago. This request is therefore not new. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to ensure that this document is made public as soon as possible. It was one of the key points of his presidency that the documents would be made public immediately after the decision-making process. I therefore assume that they will be made public immediately after discussion in the Council, no matter what happens. I am sorry that I have to have the debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	Your call is clear. The Prime Minister has said that he will take the call to Europe and do his best. Let's start with the debate. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the European summit to be held tomorrow. "Too often the elites in Europe say: the citizens do not understand. But it's not. You don't understand yourselves." Those are the words of our Prime Minister at the European Liberal Congress. There is no point in explaining Europe better; if citizens' concerns are not taken seriously, Europe is in danger of falling apart, he said. The SP fully agrees with that. All the more remarkable is our Prime Minister's attitude to the Ukraine referendum. This is an excellent opportunity to take citizens' concerns seriously. But what does the Prime Minister do? He says, "Thank you for your advice, but we'll keep going anyway." If the Prime Minister were serious about the words he spoke at the Congress of the European Liberals, he would take seriously the outcome of the referendum and send a repeal law to the Chamber, with which the treaty would be de facto off the table. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Instead, the Prime Minister comes forward with a legal statement. We already know this from the CETA Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement). That declaration will then be annexed to the Ukraine Treaty, while the electorate was so clear. The voter said no to the whole treaty. In addition, this declaration is signed only by the Member States, not by Ukraine itself. That's what makes it crazier. It makes that explanation a wash nose. It amounts to a shameless money laundering operation in the referendum. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Is it true that there is still no agreement in that declaration on the fact that Ukraine cannot become a member of the European Union? Is it true that Eastern European Member States in particular have problems with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	We have discussed this with the SP Group before. I am still a little surprised that Mr Van Dijk is so disappointed and takes off leather so hard. I think everything in that statement is exactly what the SP has indicated in the campaign. The points the SP objected to were included. Last time I quoted the leader of the SP Group, Mr Roemer. He mentioned all these points: the free movement of workers, corruption and so on. In my view, these are all points that the SP raised during the campaign and now they are addressed, Mr Van Dijk says that it is all nonsense. Was the SP campaign really all bullshit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	The weakness of this interruption is at the start of the question, namely: I think. Mrs Maij said: I believe that the points to which the SP had objections are all in that statement. That's the whole point. Mrs Maij doesn't know that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	I've had a lot of debates with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mrs Maij, Mr Jasper van Dijk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	I say to the Labour Party, as to the Prime Minister, that the electorate was crystal clear. The voter said no to the Ukraine Treaty. If a valid referendum says no, it means that the treaty is off the table, and not that you are working in the back rooms with all kinds of statements and speculations about the reasons why people have said no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	I'm fine with the debate trick. I'll be less nuanced next time. I have had the debate with many of Mr Van Dijk's colleagues. I quoted Mr Roemer last time. I sent Mr Van Dijk the link of the debate at the NIS on 31 March between Mr Roemer and Mr Samsom. In that he put forward exactly those points. I didn't make them up, the SP made them up. Mr Van Dijk is now saying: you are talking, Mrs Maij. No, Mr Van Dijk, these were exactly the points you made on behalf of the SP. Again: the campaign was apparently based on nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mrs Maij is making exactly the same interruption. That's not gonna make any sense. There is another point: what is the value of this legal statement? I'm asking the Prime Minister to respond to an article in Trouw today. It says: "With an international treaty, not one of the two parties can, in this case, add Europe "just to add a legally binding explanation. The value of an EU declaration with no Ukrainian signature is therefore limited." I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Van Dijk is now reading very carefully the legal situation. That's what's good for him. But in the referendum campaign, the SP almost daily claimed that Ukraine would become a member of the European Union as a result of the association agreement. That's what the SP said on a daily basis. If Ukraine does not become a member of the European Union, what does the SP say to all the people it has claimed to be? Well, that's just a tough lie, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	That's the question I just asked the Prime Minister. Ukrainian membership of the European Union is precisely im Frage. The Prime Minister wants to rule that out in the declaration, but Eastern European Member States have difficulty with that. Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, said: of course this treaty is a stepping stone to membership of the European Union. So if the declaration has no legal value whatsoever and if Ukraine itself sees the treaty as a stepping stone to membership, then I ask Mr Verhoeven why he wants to deny it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u28	Then let's turn it around. Of course, Poroshenko made that kind of statement. I know. Of course, they find it more difficult to do this in Eastern Europe. But turn it around: if the Netherlands gets it done, then tomorrow the Prime Minister will have to fight for it at the summit meeting in order to get a legally binding declaration that Ukraine will not become a member of the European Union. This is already the case for a long time, because EU membership is nowhere in the association agreement. What does the SP say? Surely a concern has been clearly removed from all the voters who have been frightened by Mr Van Dijk's colleagues by Ukrainian EU membership?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u29	The best way to show that Ukraine is not joining the EU is to throw this treaty in the trash. That is exactly what Mr Verhoeven said one day after the referendum: no is no. Unfortunately, he has turned and now D66 is also behind the Prime Minister with his sweetener, the statement. The key question is whether the Prime Minister acknowledges that the legal statement is a sham. And where's that statement? We must now have a debate without having that statement. The Prime Minister says, "I'm gonna try to get her in tomorrow, and then we can talk about it." I would like the Prime Minister to confirm this, because we should be back here next week in order to have a proper democratic debate on this. It is also remarkable that the opinion of the Independent Advisory Council on International Questions calls for ratification of the Convention. How serious should we take that? Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, former CDA leader, already voted for ratification in February, regardless of the outcome of the referendum. Where did this advice come from? Did the Prime Minister request it? Does he share the view that he can put it aside? The Prime Minister is now very busy negotiating his statement. If he does not manage to make a deal with the Member States, will he come up with a repeal law that will make the treaty de facto off the table? Or does the part of the Ukraine Treaty, which is exclusively a European competence, come into force or enter into force? As far as we are concerned, it is clear: stop with the back room politics and send that repeal law directly to the Chamber. That would do justice to the outcome of the referendum. The SP is shocked by the recent attack in Istanbul which killed dozens of people. We condemn this brutal act of violence and our thoughts go out to the next of kin. The attack was claimed by the TAK, a division of the PKK. In response, President Erdogan had over 200 members of the HDP arrested for alleged ties with the PKK. Can the Prime Minister tell us more about the motives for the attack? Does he have any indication that the arrested HDP MPs are involved? We all know that President Erdogan will not pass up an opportunity to confront his political opponents. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. In Sur, located in Diyarbakir, there has been a curfew for a year that was originally established for fighting between the PKK and Turkish security forces. Amnesty refers in a report to home evictions and the closure of water and electricity. Will the Prime Minister make an effort to lift that curfew? Has the government implemented the wish of the Chamber to freeze negotiations with Turkey on accession for six months, or has the government not implemented them, as I read in the Volkskrant? A report by Oxfam shows that the Netherlands is in place three of tax havens. In Europe, we are even at the top. Nothing to be proud of! On the contrary, it is scandalous that the Netherlands is actively contributing to large-scale tax avoidance, partly from developing countries. According to Oxfam, there is no less than EUR 25 billion in misplaced profits for US multinationals. Does the Prime Minister share my view that this is unacceptable? What is he going to do to prevent these unfair practices? I hear it's our finance minister, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who's on the brakes in Europe. He refuses to perform a SP motion to work with it by 2018 and wants to postpone until 2024. Does the Prime Minister share my view that this is not possible, that the Minister of Finance must also simply carry out an elected chamberal motion? Finally, I have a question about the situation in Italy, where the majority of the population said 'no' in the referendum on a constitutional change. How does the Prime Minister see the future of Italy within the euro area, as the Eurocritical opposition parties in Italy contributed significantly to the profits of the Neekamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the most important point of this European summit: how to deal with the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. This summit should lead to a legally binding declaration reflecting the substance of the outcome of our Ukraine referendum. I read in the annotated agenda that the Cabinet believes that the most appropriate form is a decision by the Heads of Government meeting in the framework of the European Council. For D66 it is crucial that it is legally binding, so that it actually does justice to the outcome and concerns of the no-thumb. So we do not want cosmetics, but a binding text that addresses the concerns that have emerged so clearly during the campaign and beyond. That is why I have a number of questions about the legal form and the sustainability of this statement. Following other referendums in Ireland and Denmark, for example, such decisions have been taken earlier to address the concerns of voters, i.e. the inhabitants of those Member States. Have these decisions always lasted? Is Ukraine prepared to join this decision of the Heads of Government? What does the Prime Minister expect from Ukraine in this context? After the Prime Minister's months of waiting, I hope that we can move on quickly. As soon as there's an agreement, will he send an approval bill to the Chamber? How does the Prime Minister inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the outcome of tomorrow's summit? This is also in line with Mr Omtzigt's concerns. How does the Prime Minister see the planning of the handling of this bill in the Lower House and in the Upper House? Not only the voters, but also all the other stakeholders in Europe deserve clarity after nine months of waiting. I come to the ALDE Congress, the Liberal Congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u31	You weren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u32	I was there, but fortunately I didn't attend the Prime Minister's speech. That was a dramatic speech. I was there on Friday, but I was gone on Saturday morning. Then the Prime Minister came in and apparently he said certain things there. Today, as Prime Minister, he also says things, but there he was as a VVD list leader. He allegedly turned against Europe because problems such as migration have not yet been resolved, while Prime Minister Rutte is simultaneously working with his cabinet to make migration policy fully European, also because he thinks it works so well. So that's odd. The Prime Minister mentioned "trust" and "take citizens' concerns seriously." Is it not popularism to send out press releases against Europe, which says that Europe is falling apart, while his cabinet and Mr Rutte are simply working on European migration policy? Isn't that exactly the way to lose people's trust? Why blow the tower high over the fall of the Roman Empire, which could not protect its external borders, after precisely this cabinet, at the request of D66, has improved Europe by creating the European Border and Coast Guard? I would like to get a reaction from Prime Minister Rutte, so not from list leader Rutte or VVD-campaigner Rutte. I just want a reaction from Prime Minister Rutte, who always does a good job in Brussels and shakes no in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u33	I thought Mr Rutte spoke there as leader of the Dutch Liberals. But D66 has been getting excited about that speech for two weeks, especially in written questions. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Verhoeven spoke about this. Can Mr Verhoeven understand that I think Mr Rutte's speech is getting better as D66 gets more annoyed by it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u34	I can imagine that, but I think the rest of the Netherlands has the right to know that it was a really bad speech. It was a speech with all kinds of nonsense. The Prime Minister pretended that others dream of more Europe and he doesn't do it himself, while it's the other way around. The Prime Minister is the one who constantly fights against all the European Commission's proposals and the proposals of other Heads of Government in Brussels, because sometimes they are good proposals for solving people's problems. But in The Hague, the VVD always pretends to think Europe is very dirty. I find that doubly and unwise. It lacks people's confidence in Europe. I call on the Prime Minister and also Mr Mulder of the VVD not to do so. Just tell me what you stand for and don't pretend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u35	Didn't the Prime Minister just stand on the delicate souls of D66? D66 wants more and more Europe for every problem and also wants a direct European tax. Isn't that why D66's a little hurt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u36	No, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u37	That was very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u38	I see two kisses-bissing liberal parties here. I would remind them that Guy Verhofstadt is the leader of the ALDE Group, to which both parties belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u39	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u40	Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Segers. I would have liked to say that, but I wanted to be brief, otherwise we will go on for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u42	That was a brief summary of the cosmetic difference between the two parties when it comes to Europe. I have another question about what Mr Verhoeven started with. He started with the result of the referendum. That must be done right. This must be emphasised. It must not be a cosmetic solution, it must be a legally binding declaration. We have read and heard about all kinds of elements that may be in there, but how does that legally binding statement add something to the referendum, as it is now? How does this statement for D66 make a difference in substance to the association agreement that has been concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u43	That is a very fair question. We saw in the campaign that the concerns of those who ultimately voted no were largely based on assumptions from the association agreement. People were very afraid that Ukraine would become a member of the European Union, but that is nowhere in the association agreement. There is constant reference to statements made ten years ago, but that is simply not going to happen. Ukraine will not become a member of the European Union, certainly not of this treaty. Another concern was the large amount of money that would flow from the European Union to Ukraine as a result of this treaty, but that is not the case either. The treaty doesn't change that. Military cooperation was also a concern. A number of issues relating to the legally binding declaration confirm what D66 has always said, namely that membership is not going to happen. A number of other elements will, where possible, refer to the content of the Convention, where people think there is something that is not actually there. That must also be made clear. It is about removing concerns in substance by making it legally binding that things that people fear are not going to happen. I'll say it as much as I can in plain human language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yet this sounds no different than a cosmetic solution. The binding declaration only says what the treaty is not, but we already knew what the treaty is not. It is not accession to the EU. It's not that military cooperation. It is a binding declaration of something already bound by the Association Treaty. Why does the D66 Group place so much emphasis on the legally binding declaration as not a cosmetic solution, but a firm statement with teeth? Mr Verhoeven then says that it is only a confirmation of what we already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u45	That is what we are doing in order to do justice to the substance of the 'no' vote. The 'no' vote has raised a number of major concerns. It must be made clear in a legally binding way that these concerns have been captured. That's the point. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u46	This is a very weak story. The voter says no in a referendum. Then I say that treaty has been rejected. The Prime Minister says no, we're going to make a statement. Then you would expect that there will be new things in that statement, which will respond to the no vote, as Mr Verhoeven would like. However, we have just found that this statement adds nothing and is only cosmetic. Something's coming up. One of the two signatories, Ukraine, is not even going to sign, which makes the legal validity of the declaration completely a sham. How does a state-of-law party like D66 deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u47	I asked the Prime Minister about this. What Mr Van Dijk is saying, I do not think, is what the legal situation is. I am very curious about that, because that is an important part. Then the first. The SP has been going so far over the last nine months that it is almost impossible to follow. First of all to all kinds of people claiming that things are going to happen as a result of the association agreement that is not in the agreement. So just say that things are gonna happen that aren't gonna happen. Then say: no is no, without listening to what concerns the no-voters. After that, those who want to meet the 'no' vote will seek solutions that must be legally binding, so that it becomes clear that Ukraine will not become a member, that there will be no money for Ukraine and that there will be no far-reaching military cooperation. Then Mr Van Dijk tells me that the weather is not good. The point is that in a legally binding way, the substance of the 'no' vote is respected. It has raised a number of concerns that need to be addressed. When that happens, you have listened to the concerns of the people about this agreement. That's what D66 is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u48	The SP has been crystal clear from day one: a no is a no, the treaty has been rejected. That's not gonna happen. The Prime Minister wants a statement. That statement is purely cosmetic and a wash nose, because one of the two treaty partners does not even sign with it. If Mr Verhoeven is a guy, he says here to the Prime Minister: D66 cannot accept such a statement, because it is literally worthless until Ukraine signs. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u49	If Mr Van Dijk were a guy, he would tell all the no-voters that he lied about Ukraine becoming a member of the European Union as a result of this association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u50	Lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u52	Yeah, but... lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u53	No, please continue. This is a personal fact, not a further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u54	Didn't he say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u55	No, Mr Verhoeven has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr Van Dijk, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr Verhoeven implies that we have said that this treaty is a step towards membership of Ukraine. That is what we have always said, and it is. Don't talk about lies, you don't fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u59	Proceed, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr Van Dijk knows that it is different. The SP has said daily in the halls that Ukraine would become a member of the European Union through this treaty, and the SP has responded to the fears of the electorate. This fear must be overcome by a legally binding declaration that Ukraine will not become a member of the European Union. It can be as simple and as clear as that. The VVD has also said that I should like to go back to the Prime Minister's statement that asylum seekers should return to Africa. I have not heard that position before. If this has now become a cabinet policy, I ask the Prime Minister. If that is the case, I would like to hear how this is compatible with the international conventions which the Netherlands is bound by in Europe. The VVD seems to like to pretend that they are only economic migrants, but knows as well as I do that it is certainly also about people fleeing because they are threatened because of their orientation or belief. Then to the Turkey deal and the situation in Turkey. The cabinet continues to hold on to the Turkey deal, but the fact that Erdogan is threatening to blow up this deal doesn't seem to hurt anyone. I ask the Prime Minister: what is his alternative? What does he do if Erdogan really opens the borders tomorrow, what is plan B of this cabinet? The Greek hotspots are already overcrowded. More than 16,000 people are already trapped on the islands alone and with the Greek mainland they are 62,000 people in total. That's as many people as Nieuwegein live, and that's with an influx of zero. What's gonna happen if the influx pulls back on? Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue at the European summit for getting the Greek hotspots in order as soon as possible? What is the Prime Minister doing to persuade the Eastern European countries to participate in a fair distribution and how does he ensure that Europe can cope with the blows of the Turkey deal? How does he assess the Commission's opinion on the resumption of Dublin transfers to Greece? Does he think the European Court of Justice will accept this? Two weeks ago, we had a special debate with the Foreign Minister. During the debate on EU enlargement, he said he would make a plea for the temporary suspension of the accession negotiations with Turkey. I read in the report of the General Affairs Council that he has only advocated the establishment of the fact that no new chapters have been opened since June. We have not tabled a motion as a Chamber because we had confidence in the manner in which the Foreign Minister would honour this commitment. The way in which he has done so now is not the desired clear signal to Turkey that the Chamber needed. I urge the Prime Minister to implement this commitment at the European summit. Then the visa liberalisation. In a previous debate on the European Summit, the Prime Minister undertook to urge the Commission to critically review the criteria already identified. Research carried out by D66 has shown that some criteria have been checked out very smoothly or prematurely. However, the progress report does not reveal any of this critical re-evaluation. Can the Prime Minister explain that? My final point is about the Brexit. From the annotated agenda, I understand that there will be a separate EU-27 session with the 27 Member States without the United Kingdom, to discuss the organisation of the process of future Brexit negotiations. All I miss is the cabinet's commitment. What will the Prime Minister advocate at this EU-27 summit? How does he prefer to organise the trial? I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. If you love Europe, stop dreaming of more Europe. It could be just a sentence from the Christian Union election programme, but it was the Prime Minister who spoke these words. I wholeheartedly agree with him. The Christian Union has always advocated European cooperation. This cooperation has been a blessing for our continent in many respects. She has brought us peace, security and prosperity. But the Christian Union has always advocated a Europe that knows its borders. Europe is failing to tackle major problems, which require a European approach. Let me give you an example of the refugee crisis. There are other areas where there is no need for cooperation. So Europe is big in small business and too small in big business. After the Brexit, the gas pedal of European cooperation seems to be stepped up, hoping to save the European project. There are plans for a European intelligence service and for European defence. Commissioner Moscovici is acting as Minister for Finance of the euro area. There's no end to it. That's playing with fire. This puts cooperation at risk and we lose the support of the people. I would ask the Prime Minister to explain this development along his own measuring bar, which he laid down in his speech in Warsaw. I'm coming to the Ukraine referendum. The Dutch people's 'no' vote in that referendum is also part of this growing discomfort about the European Union. Does the Prime Minister, like the Christian Union, see the risk that the inconvenience will be fuelled by the choices of the cabinet following the outcome of the referendum? Do you think he could go into that? For my group, first of all, the cabinet must do justice to the no vote that sounded in April. The cabinet is still looking for a way out to ratify. We have said before that the Christian Union does not yet see this way out. But we will see what the cabinet comes back with from Brussels and we will judge it next week. My next point concerns the Turkey deal. By now, 16,000 people are stuck on Greek islands in degrading conditions. They're in the cold, the rain. There are children and elderly. That's actually a damage. It is a disgrace to Europe. This represents a failure of Europe's asylum policy. There are also 60,000 people trapped on the Greek mainland. The redistribution of refugees has hardly begun. Some Eastern European countries refuse to implement the agreements. But the Netherlands is also lagging behind in accepting the promised refugees. Will the Prime Minister appeal to other countries to comply with the agreements? What will be the Prime Minister's commitment to solving the need in Greece? Turkey still does not fulfil the conditions for visa liberalisation. When are we gonna stop fooling ourselves? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the Prime Minister must work to end these accession negotiations between Turkey and the European Union. Is he willing to do that? Austria has now confessed to colour and said that we must put an end to it. What else have the words of Minister Koenders been worth? Mr Verhoeven has already asked for this. Minister Koenders said that we are going to work to freeze these negotiations. Is that the Dutch government's commitment? In the context of the Brexit, the Christian Union Group has serious concerns about the position of the Dutch fishing industry. The Brexit can lead to enormous economic damage for many entrepreneurs and for our economy. It is therefore a good thing that a motion from the Christian Union was adopted last week which states that fishermen should be spared by suspending landing duty during the Brexit process. But now the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has given a far too narrow explanation to that motion. That motion states that the government must do everything in its power to suspend this landing obligation. However, the Secretary of State says: well, if it comes up at some point, I'd like to talk about that for a while. That's way too skinny. Is the Prime Minister prepared to stand up for our Dutch fishermen in Brussels and act in accordance with the motion on suspending landing duty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Chairman. Today is 245 days after the "no" of the Ukraine referendum. All this time, the voice of more than 2.5 million Dutch people is completely ignored. At the end of the week, this democracy-hating Prime Minister will even try to close his Ukraine deal over the back of all those voters. It is a low point in recent political history. And while news agency Reuters already saw the secret documents, the parliament can't know anything at all. VNL no longer has any confidence in this unreliable VVD Prime Minister. The main reason the voter voted against on 6 April was the huge corruption in Ukraine. The European Court of Auditors recently stated that, despite EU billions of aid, Ukraine is still the most corrupt country in Europe. So the no-thumb was right. The ratification of the Treaty will only increase their distrust of politics. And that is not only true of the Ukraine Treaty. Of course, the migration deal with Erdogan should never have been closed. It makes the EU vulnerable to Turkish blackmail. It is naive and dangerous policy. The agreement doesn't work at all. So far, only 748 migrants have been returned. But almost EUR 700 million has already been transferred to Turkey. Nearly EUR 1 million per asylum seeker. It's really absurd. We therefore say: stop it, no visa-free travel for almost 80 million Turks and never Turkish accession to the EU. In recent years, my group has tabled several motions to drag migrant boats off the European coast back to Africa. These motions were always dissuaded by the Prime Minister and the VVD always voted against. But at a conference in Poland two weeks ago, the Prime Minister suddenly talked about the need to pick up and drag back migrant boats. With the election in sight, he struck out just as tough, right-wing language. He didn't mean it, and the voter doesn't buy it anymore. On 15 March 2017, he will deal with this hypocritical and unreliable cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister plays a high game on the Ukraine referendum. He's playing a big game in Europe, because there's a lot to ask for. It calls for a very firm statement to be signed with five points that are quite sensitive. So the question remains whether the Prime Minister is going to come back with the full 100% of his commitment. Can the Prime Minister give an estimate of the probability of that? And although the Prime Minister will return with 100% of his commitment, it is only the question whether this 100% of his commitment will be experienced here in the Netherlands will be felt as a real justice to the "no" in the referendum. My group has serious doubts about this. You can reason with anything. You can say from the ratio: here a number of substantive objections have been addressed. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has been, and continues to be, a strong supporter of the Ukraine Treaty, but we saw that in the debate a number of improper elements were demolished which received enormous emphasis. But no matter how you turn or turn it, the referendum is and remains an instrument that ultimately produces a "yes" or a "no." It is therefore at the very least a question of whether, with all these efforts and the high game of the Prime Minister, something that will actually be seen and felt in the Netherlands as doing justice to the referendum will come true. Until now, my group certainly has great doubts about this. For this reason, we have already indicated in the previous debates that there is a very low chance that GroenLinks will ultimately be in agreement with ratification of the Treaty with this commitment. No matter how rational you look at it, it will be extremely difficult to get this explained in the Netherlands in such a way that the Dutch feel that justice has been done to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u64	Can Mr Grashoff tell me what the commitment of GroenLinks is on this subject? Does he agree with me that the outcome of the referendum was clear, that no was voted and that the Prime Minister should therefore proceed with the repeal law and not continue with his attempt to secure a legal declaration to the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u65	No, I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk. We have certainly given the government the opportunity to get to work in this way. This means that we are also waiting for that result, but I think I have been clear about the management of expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u66	Should I be disappointed to note that GroenLinks could also agree to a legal statement that is purely cosmetic? Ukraine is not even going to sign that declaration, so it is not legal. Why does Mr Grashoff not agree with the view that it was a no and that the treaty should therefore be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u67	I understand that Mr Van Dijk wants all kinds of statements from me, but I have already made it clear that I am not doing so at the moment. I think we should also look closely at how the instrument of referendum relates to multilateral treaties. That will not be the last word on the subject, but at least it is a difficult affair. The negotiations that the Prime Minister is currently conducting will not remove the discontent about the association agreement, as far as we can judge it at the moment. The Council will also consider the Turkey deal, which is shaky. That deal is linked to a visa liberalisation process that is not going anywhere and which, rightly, cannot be achieved at the moment, given that Turkey is not in any way fulfilling the conditions for it. Turkey flirts with the death penalty and there is a very clear red line drawn, including by the cabinet. What's gonna happen if that Turkey deal snaps? That's a like-dan question. I know that these are always difficult questions, but in the meantime we are at a stage where I think that question is so realistic that it should be asked. Does the EU have a common answer, or should Greece do it itself? The situation there is already almost unacceptable, but it will get worse at a rapid pace. Anyway, we have a responsibility for the refugee issue. In any case, we must note that only 2,761 of the approximately 2.8 million Syrians currently in Turkey are re-established. We have a responsibility for this and things are going badly, with or without Turkey's deal. Can the Minister answer that? In what way will we seriously assume our responsibility as a prosperous continent for at least that part of the refugee issue that we can reasonably contribute to? Offering one promille of war refugees a legal way out is not a solution. With regard to migration, it is good to cooperate with African countries, but there seems to be a process going too far now. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to give specific consideration to this. Are we really going to offer countries money not only to take back people who have come to Europe from those countries but who cannot obtain asylum status there, or are we going to reward those countries, so to speak, for including people from other countries in that region? Are we not actually trying to make something out of this that is going to smell like a reverse human trafficking? I would like a very serious answer to that. In view of my speaking time, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Chairman. The fact that the PvdA group broke its agreement with the electorate was a reason for me to leave the PvdA group. The agreement and thus its credibility were thrown away by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. That's why I'm here alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u69	I would like to ask Mr Monasch why he did not join the PvdA Group on what was it? On 19 April the Commission decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u70	That is quite simple: because there was still room at the time to see if one would return to the pace. When it was clear that the cabinet did not intend to do so and that the PvdA Group clearly wanted to pursue that course and no longer support a repeal law, there was no other conclusion than that the group broke its agreement with the electorate. Mrs Maij was one of the first to state that the PvdA Group would stick to the agreement and comply with the ruling. Unfortunately, Mrs Maij did not agree to this appointment, also as a spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u71	I think Mr Monasch is going around it very nicely. He needed an excuse to leave the group. That certainly wasn't April 19th. Then we said exactly the same thing as in the weeks and months after and now. So I think the argument is a little inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u72	There's nothing wrong with it. There is only one group that has been wrong and unbelievable in this debate: the group that promised the electorate to accept this statement. When it was clear that the group could not be brought back on that road, I left the group because I have an appointment with the electorate. I respected that voter with the highest sacrifice, namely by leaving the group at the end. My question to the Prime Minister is what impact the change of the PvdA leadership has on government policy. For example, we know that the Prime Minister does not have much to do with the Deputy Prime Minister's Work and Security Act. He has indicated to the Deputy Prime Minister, now in his form as PvdA leader, that he actually sees nothing in this course and actually wants a repeal law. I'm closing this subject with a call. Yesterday there was the happy news that the financial deficit is gone, but the democratic deficit resulting from the break-up of this agreement is not only getting worse in this house because of the disappearance of the majority of the cabinet but, even more importantly, also in society. So file the repeal law! I'm going into the migration deals now. A lot of money goes to Africa for employment projects. We've just had 50 years of development cooperation. Apparently, it didn't work. Why is it suddenly thought that this is going to work? Exactly the opposite is the case. The rate of growth in Africa has never been so high, but at the same time economic emigration has never been so high. Why should additional employment projects, if they are already successful, now suddenly lead to a reduction in this economic emigration? Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks rightly said that it seems that migration deals are a form of reverse trafficking in human beings. Is it not necessary to radically break the human traffickers' business models and, if necessary, intervene with military force in order to break through the terrible trips through the Sahara and beyond on the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief today. I am not good at voting, but I am particularly brief because I am so sick and tired of these embarrassing debates with the Prime Minister. That repetition of moves in the 245 days since the referendum... Everyone's argued the same thing ten times. After this we get that verbal acrobatics of the Prime Minister, which only he enjoys, no one else. It is shameful for this house, for parliamentary democracy and, above all, for this is actually my least concern for the Prime Minister himself. We did not hear from the Prime Minister yesterday, but we read in the international media that yesterday agreement was reached on three of the additional conditions that would be important for the Dutch no-thumb: no military assistance, no extra EU money, and the EU members keep the right to limit the immigration of Ukrainians. The remaining theme is whether or not the Association Agreement is a stepping stone to a full membership of the EU. That would be dealt with later in the day. We must read it in the Ukrainian and other media, because the Prime Minister refuses to clarify despite a very urgent request from his own parliament. This is already another stone in the wall of contempt for the people, the wall of indifference and, above all, the wall behind which the Prime Minister is hiding from the anger of the people who, by a large majority, rejected this association agreement. On this side of the wall the people, the Netherlands and The Hague, on the other side of the wall the Prime Minister and the Brussels elite. The people and the rulers don't see each other anymore. Worse still, they can't hear each other either. I conclude that the Prime Minister and his government have shown an appalling lack of leadership throughout this process. They have committed political blunders of the first order and they have by an art grab to save what was to be saved for their Brussels friends, all parties estranged and divided among the Dutch people who are sick and tired of lying. First there was the time when the Referendum Act was adopted, then the announcement of the referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine, and then the campaign conducted by everyone, except by the government. First, the Prime Minister tried to sell the Association Treaty to the electorate as a trade treaty, so many of which were "nothing else was going on," but it turned into a magical treaty that even had an impact on stability at the EU's eastern borders. This made it a geopolitical instrument. Suddenly it was: without treaty the Apocalypse about us. People see that; they smell that cynicism remotely. Then promises were made about respecting the outcome. Then there was another endless repetition of those conscious delaying tactics that everyone saw. The cynicism of politics grew rapidly and confidence in politics shrank like snow for the sun. Finally, there was the finding of the spindoctors that meaning had to be given to the voice of the no-thumb. If we were to incorporate these four main concerns into a legally binding document, then the 'no' could also live with the ratification of the Treaty. Everything has been said before in this lingering journey. The no-thumb never spoke out on any of those four spin doctoral themes. There hasn't been an investigation. The spindoctors have based themselves on findings in the mainstream media that are without exception europhile. These mainstream media have given the spindoctors a stick to hit the no-thumb and they should be ashamed of that. That was the trajectory. The Prime Minister stumbled from one failure to the next, rotating, panicking, and above all talking and laughing away in the hope that there would still be something to save for his masters in Brussels. He showed lack of leadership, sowed division and, most importantly, fed cynicism. I quit. For the last time, I ask the Prime Minister, who is also the Prime Minister of the massively victorious neekamp: go tomorrow to Brussels with the one message that reflects the outcome of the referendum and the law that goes with it. Show yourself a man, a leader of the Dutch people and say: ladies and gentlemen, the Netherlands does not ratify because the electorate has spoken and the electorate is always right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr Beertema says that no investigation has been carried out into the electorate's motives for voting no. I have a study here from the University of Nijmegen, which is at the top: Corruption in Ukraine, and: Fear of Ukraine becoming a member of the EU. Are these not exactly the two things the Prime Minister is trying to solve in the agreement he is concluding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u75	What college was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u76	University of Nijmegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u77	Radboud University Nijmegen! Oh, that is an example of objective science, in Havana aan de Waal. That's how it was, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u79	These kinds of investigations...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr. Beertema!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u81	This kind of investigation doesn't matter, Mr. President. It's an explanation given afterwards. There was never such a question in the referendum. The question in the referendum was sharp. It was yes or no. A "no" came out of that and then everyone rolled over to give an explanation. I've asked before; there's been no investigation by the High Colleges of State. There has been an explanation that the Prime Minister and you, Mr Mulder, have come out best, because you want nothing but the Association Treaty ratified. That is your message and it brings you very well, Mr Mulder, but don't tell me that these are the problems and that the no-thumb is suddenly satisfied when they are cleaned away. 'Cause it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr Beertema says that no investigation has been carried out. I'm saying that research has been done, and then I get such a lame answer. I think it's a really weak answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr Mulder may think so, but I am speaking about my own words. It's an interpretation afterwards. The referendum on the Treaty was crystal clear. That's all that matters. All ex-post investigations and all ex-post findings are merely an embarrassing attempt to turn the no-choicer in front of a wheel. You should be ashamed, Mr Mulder, that you are cooperating in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u84	Shame? I find it a little strange that a study done by a serious university is being muffled away here: science is not important. I guess science is just a gut feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u85	Well, chairman, this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u86	Sorry, I wasn't even ready to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u87	... I cast far from me. You shouldn't be interrupting this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr Beertema, you will have the floor in a moment. Mrs Maij has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u89	This was simply a repetition of what Mr Beertema meant. He laughed away what Radboud University Nijmegen had done. Another point. Mr Beertema says that there was nothing known about the content at all. All this was brought forward by EU-loving media, and that would be the idea that the no-thumb had. I would like to quote from the group chairman of Mr Jasper van Dijk, who is standing next to me. He just said that himself in the media. He talked about EU membership and said: there are a lot of cheap workers coming to the EU; this treaty will bring billions to the corrupt government and oligarchs. So these things were not made up by the media; that was just put forward loudly and clearly by the neekamp as an argument. It was clear that the SP was in the neekamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u90	That is all true. Mrs Maij and Mr Mulder forget, however, that the lack of confidence of the electorate is precisely because of the lack of clarity, the lack of clarity and the lack of control of yours, Mrs Maij, and also of yours, Mr Mulder. The voter is so sick of it. The distrust of the electorate is so enormous. This has also grown because of the EU's completely dark way of working, which has always denied that it was after a federal states of Europe. It has grown due to the unclear decision-making pathways that characterise the EU. I refer to the statements made by Mr Juncker himself. He's the champion of tricky politics. His most infamous statement is: we decide something, let it rest and see what happens; if no one makes noise and does not rise up because most people do not understand what is being decided, then we move on step by step until there is no turning back. That's what lives very badly with the voter and that's what lives very badly with the no-chooser, including with me. That is also a very important reason for me to turn away from the EU. Mrs. Maij feeds it over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u91	I think that the distrust of the electorate is being fed a little, quite decently, by the fact that all kinds of people from the camp seem to have been making bullshit and now come back to that. They have therefore encouraged the electorate to vote no on the basis of a number of incorrect arguments. I also think that we should not hide behind what is being argued in Brussels. Above all, we must look very carefully at the serious arguments used by the supporters and opponents. The opponents have simply used a number of incorrect arguments. On that basis, the no-camp voted no. So they voted no on the basis of nonsense and that feeds the mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr. Beertema, a short response? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u93	I've already given it to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u94	I distance myself from what Mrs Maij insinuates about the SP through the band. I would just remind her of the video in which Mr Diederik Samsom clearly said: no is no. Unfortunately, the Labour Party is now also on the line of: no becomes yes. Mr President, I hear rumblings behind me, so I cannot quietly interrupt. I would advise Mr Beertema to read the National Referenceum Research just as well, because I think that is interesting for him as well. It undermines all kinds of arguments put forward by the europhiles, the proponents. Firstly, a vote against the referendum was not anti-EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u95	Are you going to read everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u96	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u97	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u98	A second argument from the urophils is that people have remained strategically at home due to the entry threshold. Bullshit! That's what the investigation shows. The share of strategic stayers was only 2.5%. Had there been a voting obligation, the outcome would have been similar. As many opponents as supporters stayed home. Read it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u99	I thank my SP colleague for the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. It started about three months ago. I was bombed on Twitter with questions from EU Finance. The request was to complete a survey. The question was: what about your retirement plan? Correct if I'm always trying to be, then I asked, "Why do you want to know?"; You're not talking about this at all, are you? There was no response. After about a week I sent a reminder and asked if I could answer it. Then I did get an answer, because I was blocked. After two months I put on the naughty shoes and asked that was about this week if there would be another answer to my questions. That came in. I had to tell you what my questions were, because they had apparently thrown them in the trash. The answer to my questions was: the idea of consultation on personal pensions was to involve consumers in possible European initiatives. So this was about European initiatives in the field of pensions. They also wrote: as far as we are concerned, we succeeded; we received more than 500 responses from citizens to the consultation. I was stunned and I find it amazing. Firstly, the answer to my simple informative questions is being avoided in a superior way. Secondly, the number of 500 reactions, of all 17 million Dutch, is measured as a success. Moreover, I find it astonishing that this reveals something of the salami tactic that is often used by European bodies. Perhaps the most interesting part of tomorrow's European Council is dinner afterwards. I hear from the Prime Minister that the food is not great, but it offers opportunities; I will explain that in a moment. The agenda items of the meeting are not insignificant: the issue of migrants, security policy and the association agreement with Ukraine. I do not want to say too many words about the latter. The position of the SGP on the outcome of the referendum is clear: follow the royal road. We have little expectation of the opportunities for a binding legal addendum that really reflects the concerns expressed in the referendum. We await the outcome of the negotiations. Why is the informal afterwards dinner perhaps the most interesting? Well, because then the conversation is about how to deal with the Brexit. Since the food is not great, as the Prime Minister points out, I would ask him to repeat the speech he made in Warsaw for his liberal friends, with those heartfelt statements. They have already been quoted today, but I repeat them, because I think we have seen the light; now we have opportunities. "Too often the elites in Europe say: the citizens do not understand. But it's not. You do not understand." Tell that to the fellow Heads of Government, I would say. Too often European leaders do not respond with modest realism to a crisis like the Brexit, but with a flight ahead. This is how the EU came up with new, very far-reaching pension legislation after the referendum. I found it an extremely painful example of a complete lack of a sense of reality. Of course, on some issues, European cooperation is indispensable and important, and we have never made any misunderstandings about it, but there are many areas that the EU does not have to deal with at all, even though it does. The EU is insatiable, a black hole that absorbs all kinds of powers under the motto of an ever closer union. That still hasn't changed. In the wake of the EU, this also applies to bodies such as the Council of Europe. It was once set up with noble intentions, but if you systematically look at and follow developments, you see that the Council is now becoming an organisation that is primarily focused on survival and becomes a blur of self-pollinating committees and judges, who sing away from parliamentary procedures and frameworks of justice and justice. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The Prime Minister is therefore right to say that the European elite do not understand the citizens. The problem is, however, I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to lie about this, but that is my perception at the moment that these fine words often do not correspond to the practice. In practice, cabinet policy is still in line with an increasing number of EU countries. Is the Prime Minister in Brussels going to put his fist on the table and convince the sleepy and navel-staring colleagues that it is no longer possible to do so? When is the government going to stop playing nicely and come to terms with the question of federalising or really reforming and modernising the EU? I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister, but I'm sure I'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr. Chairman. I'll try to talk soon. I would like to begin with another subject that is also on the agenda, namely the European labour market. In the Netherlands the labour market is attracting, but in other countries we see that the labour market is certainly not attracting. We are very concerned about youth unemployment in a number of European Member States. It is good that the European Union has a plan to provide training and employment for young people, especially in the southern Member States, where 30% to 40% of young people are on the sidelines. At the same time, we are concerned about labour displacement and unfair competition in our own Dutch labour market. What is the state of play with the government's efforts to bring about a thorough revision of the Detachment Directive in order to prevent legal phony constructions in the Netherlands from remaining possible? The principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is still very important. We have often repeated this here, but the Detaching Directive is still the way it is. What efforts are being made by the Netherlands to ensure that the Detaching Directive is being amended? How are the concerns addressed, for example, by the Member States whose parliament has drawn a yellow card? How's the government talking about that? What will happen to Commissioner Thyssen's labour mobility package? She has spoken commendable words about this. The European internal market is not only an internal market for companies and capital, but above all for workers and people living in the European Union. They should benefit from that. Migration is also on the agenda. It is good that part of the Turkey deal is working, but at the same time another part is really not working. The influx into the Greek islands is quite under control, but the situation on the Greek islands is really problematic. We see that the situation on the Greek islands is not good, but that there is still a division within the European Union as to how the common European asylum policy should now be tackled jointly. Mutual solidarity and agreement are still far away. The PvdA asks the Prime Minister how these pressing issues will be addressed and how, for example, we will improve the situation on the Greek islands. The cabinet says it's worried about this, too. In the context of the three-way presidency, together with Malta and Slovakia, the EESC calls on other Member States to use their capacity to improve reception and asylum procedures in the Greek islands, for example. How does that happen? How much success has been achieved? The images of the Greek islands are still frightening. To what extent is solidarity on resettlement, for example? That is, of course, the part of the Turkey deal that is still not working properly. On the one hand, it is good that part of it works, but on the other hand, decent care in the European Union and resettlement really need to be put in place. All EU Member States will have to deliver. It would really be a failure on the part of the European Union if it did not succeed in providing vulnerable refugees with decent reception and a decent process on the European continent. That would be a tragedy for all the people sitting there, sometimes for months and sometimes for years. We have taken note of the report by EU President Slovakia on the discussions between Member States on the common European asylum policy for the future. How does the cabinet appreciate this report and the progress made in this respect? The PvdA has the impression that these are still few concrete progress and that there is still little concrete agreement. The Slovak Presidency is in favour of an activation mechanism which will enter into force in advance under certain conditions and under certain objective conditions. Can the government say anything more about this? The migration pacts will also be discussed. The PvdA would like to hear the latest state of the migration pacts and also how exactly the agreements made by the Foreign Minister on behalf of the European Union with Mali are working together. What agreements were finally made and how will they be completed? Another point cannot be left unanswered: the situation in Aleppo. Like others, we are very concerned about the situation of the civilian population there. Houses but also schools and hospitals have been destroyed. The city has been bombed away to a large extent. I must say that the images I see on television scare me: a city in ruins and a desperate population. Will this be discussed in the European Council? It can't go unspoken. In last Monday's report by the Foreign Affairs Council, I saw that it was not really discussed. That is a matter of concern, because this is really a matter of attention. I'm coming to Turkey. On Sunday, another bombing took place in Istanbul with Mr Van Dijk remembering the death of at least 38 people. Our thoughts also go out to the victims and to the loved ones of those victims. And yet, at the same time, we are deeply concerned about the situation in Turkey, about the situation of journalists, academics and also politicians who are simply being arrested. A few days ago, there were reports of over 100 scientists being fired. What's science worth! There are also serious reports of torture, rapes and hundreds of thousands of people in south-east Turkey who have been driven out of their homes. The rule of law is being undermined, and that is terrible. What is the force field within the European Union now? We read that this has happened in the General Affairs Council. Can the Prime Minister explain what the next sentence in the conclusion means? I'm sorry, I'm only in English. The sentence reads: "Under the current prevailing circulations no new chapters are considered for opening." What exactly does this phrase mean in the political sense and in what way did Minister Koenders enter into this discussion after the general discussion that we had on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u102	You can try to translate that sentence. That would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u103	Under certain current circumstances, no new chapters are put forward to open. This is a bit of a crooked sentence, but you know what I mean. Finally, I would like to address the issue that we have discussed most with each other today: the Ukraine referendum. That's on the agenda, too. We would like to know from the government what will be concluded tomorrow. We discussed here that it is very important for the PvdA Group to give the no vote at the Ukraine referendum a place. This is possible by laying down the main concerns of the no-voters in a legally binding declaration. Colleagues have already asked about the legal commitment of the declaration in the way it is now proposed. The members of the PvdA Group support the government in seeking a solution. We ask the Prime Minister how promising the compromise that is now being presented is. We see that it is discussed in the draft conclusions, but of course we do not yet have a substantive text. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister how successful he thinks his mission will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u104	I find the Labour Party in this debate inimitable on two points. That is first of all the fact that a 'no' is a 'no', that the PvdA also said before the referendum that the treaty is then off the table, but apparently not anymore. The second point concerns that legal statement. Does Mrs Maij really think it is acceptable that we should be sent home with a legal statement from the Prime Minister which is not signed by Ukraine, one of the two signatories? This makes legal validity a farce. Does she share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u105	As far as the first sentence is concerned, Mr Van Dijk and I can shake hands, because I find his contribution to this point completely inimitable. In many debates during the campaign with his colleagues, I debated why the SP now had such serious problems with that treaty. I have never discussed this directly with him, by the way. The points we have also discussed here were membership, a lot of money for a corrupt government, the arrival of a lot of cheap workers in the European Union and military support. Those points were all mentioned. It was said that this treaty would make that possible. Now the government's gonna try to address that and the SP says, "Sorry, no. I really don't understand that. When the concerns of the SP are addressed in this way, should Mr Van Dijk stand here cheering instead of being so disappointed and stomping? Mr Van Dijk has asked two questions. On the second point, I would like to hear from the government how legally binding the proposal is. I think that is a genuine question that Mr Van Dijk and others have asked here. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u106	The PvdA said just like the SP for the referendum: no is no; if it becomes a no, the treaty is off the table. The PvdA now has a different view. I come to the second point. The legal statement has no legal basis if Ukraine does not sign. Does the Labour Party agree with me that the legal statement in this way is a farce? Does she have the courage to say to the Prime Minister that we, as Labour Party, of course do not agree to such a legal statement? I'd like to get a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u107	At the risk of provokeing Mr Van Dijk, I say that in the debate surrounding this campaign, the SP also said a lot of things that turned out to be wrong. She spoke of membership and said that, thanks to this treaty, many workers would come to Europe from Ukraine. I would like to raise a few questions about the certainty with which Mr Van Dijk is interrupting the legal commitment. I would particularly like to hear from the Prime Minister what it means. So far, the SP has gone past the truth in the campaign, at least on the issues related to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u108	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u109	No, Mr Van Dijk, I'm sorry. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u110	Have they been debated, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u111	I'm afraid that's not gonna happen today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u112	No, it was here that they were debating even further. Mr. Chairman. There is an important European summit. There is a comprehensive agenda that reflects the size and many challenges the Union is currently facing. I'll start with Turkey. The annotated agenda said that the progress report wasn't there yet, but it was there four days ago. Why did we get an annotated calendar that wasn't up-to-date? I would like to join Mr Verhoeven. Why have the negotiations with Turkey on membership not been suspended? The government does say that these negotiations are comatose. But are there any discussions with the Turks at official and government level or not? The fact that no new chapters are opened is sold as a victory. That is, of course, completely ridiculous, because there was no proposal at all to open new chapters. A Parliamentary motion has been adopted in which it has been asked whether, in view of the EU's subsidies this year, 23 million people who have been paid for prisons in Turkey can be controlled to ensure that torture is carried out in these prisons. We have not seen any feedback on that. I would like to know whether it was raised or raised at the European summit. I come to the pièce de résistance: the Ukraine Treaty. At the summit on 15 December, the Dutch Government wants to find a solution to the no of the referendum. An obvious solution is, of course, a withdrawal law, but the Prime Minister wants a legally binding unilateral declaration. That figure doesn't know the CDA group. It's a treaty, and if it's a treaty, it's binding. Then it must be ratified, by this parliament, by 27 other parliaments, by Ukraine and by the EU itself. If you fail to comply with that treaty, you can go to the Court in Luxembourg. It's called legally binding. A political declaration shall not be binding. If there is a politically binding statement, I do know some Dutch people who would like to know the address of the court where they can claim €1,000 from Prime Minister Rutte or where they can demand the support back to Greece. They can ask the entire VVD, except for Mr Taverne. Which court can you go to? Which court can you turn to when a new EU promise comes? Does the Union and Ukraine also sign the declaration that is being proposed? If not, they cannot be held to that in any way, I think. It seems that Ukraine is not inclined to sign. In this respect, it is striking that until September, the Prime Minister said every time after the Council of Ministers that a declaration was being made with Ukraine and with the 27 other Member States, and that he was only talking about a statement by the Member States from October onwards. Does Ukraine not want to participate? The second problem is that the content demanded on high legs is rather empty. Let's check out the Prime Minister's demands. The Convention should not confer a right to membership. Well, the treaty doesn't entitle you to membership. That was confirmed by the Prime Minister before the referendum itself at Nieuwsuur. On the basis of Article 49 of the EU Treaty, Ukraine has the right to apply for membership whenever it so wishes. That alone does not follow from the Association Treaty, but from the EU Treaty. The treaty does not provide a collective security guarantee on Ukraine. Well, the EU has never given a collective security guarantee to anyone. That's what NATO does. So this is an empty shell casing. The Treaty does not give Ukrainian workers access to the EU labour market. The Treaty is indeed very thick, but it does not contain that guaranteed access to the labour market. The Association Agreement does not impose an obligation to provide financial support to Ukraine. That was the fourth demand in the declaration, but the Treaty does not include any right to that support. Moreover, the Prime Minister forgets to mention that the EU does pay billions of dollars of support to Ukraine, only that does not go through this treaty. Technically, the sentence is correct. It doesn't follow from the treaty. If these four observations are true, I ask the Prime Minister. Sometimes I wonder if the Prime Minister wants to fool himself, or the entire Dutch population too. Finally, a serious question about the association agreement. Does that have to be changed with the Brexit? Does the Brexit amendment, namely that a country withdraws from the Convention, mean that there is a need for a new Protocol or an amending Convention to be ratified by all Member States at that time? This question was cleverly omitted yesterday, but that would mean that there would be an amendment to the Ukraine Treaty in the near future. I think it's interesting to see how that goes. I'm skipping migration, though that's an important theme. I agree with the question put by some colleagues whether the Dutch Prime Minister is going to bring his ruling on the return of boats to North Africa to the European summit, or whether it was intended for the Dutch public, but not for the European decision-makers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u113	A report from the International Affairs Advisory Council appeared a few weeks ago. It has been mentioned earlier in this debate. The Chairman is Mr Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, former CDA leader, former Foreign Minister and not to mention former NATO Secretary-General. He states that for geopolitical reasons it would be good if the Netherlands ratified the treaty. Does Mr Omtzig agree with Mr De Hoop Scheffer, or does he think his statement is nonsense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u114	There will be a weighting. We were in favour of this treaty. There were all kinds of reasons for this, including geopolitical ones. A referendum was then held in the Netherlands. We have always said that a referendum is not a gratuitous idea. We have political parties in this House of Representatives. I am now looking at the left side of the room, especially the PvdA and D66, which are in favour of a referendum, but which, if a valid referendum turns out to be no, goes on just as hard. Then there's the weighting. For us, this weighting means that the referendum and the result are very important. That does not make any sense to Mr De Hoop Scheffer's arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u115	It is good to note that Mr De Hoop Scheffer's arguments are not absurd. It would be good if the CDA would listen to that. It is important to establish that and also that the CDA agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u116	We were in favour. In contrast to the VVD, we indicated before the referendum that we were in favour of this treaty. I also voted for it in the Chamber. I had several reasons for that, including a geopolitical one. But you can have a referendum and you can't have a referendum. But there has been a referendum. However, a number of political parties here have recently acted as if they were merely expressing an opinion, just as a fellow MEP put the opinion of the University of Nijmegen in a very nasty way as an opinion in the corner. You don't just have an opinion of the entire Dutch people to ask. You have to do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u117	I have always found the position of the CDA very respectable. If you hold a referendum, then you must also stick to the result; that is also what Mr Buma says. Am I right in saying that this should also apply to you, and also to the entire CDA group, including in the First Chamber? I read reports that the Prime Minister wants to make a deal with your colleagues in the First Chamber, but hopefully that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u118	I hope that Mr Van Dijk knows the Constitution well. It says: "Without burden or back-spokenness." I have some doubts about this with certain parties, but every parliamentarians makes their own assessment. I am not talking about the voting behaviour of colleagues, nor about your voting behaviour, nor even about voting behaviour in my own group, let alone about voting behaviour within the Senate. If it were, the Senate would immediately be superfluous, I would add.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u119	That's totally right. However, a political party generally takes a stand. Is it true that the position of the CDA is in the country that you are also spreading that, as far as your group is concerned, this treaty should be repealed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yes, I am speaking on behalf of my group in the House of Representatives and there is no reservation on this from colleagues in the group. I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. That was about the question, but I was looking forward to dragging the boat back. Was this a statement that is being made in the European Union, or is it only included in the internal party debate of which D66 and VVD are collectively collegial and uncollegially members? Then Italy. Italy is not formally on the agenda, but the country is about to save banks. Does the Prime Minister share the view that when the country does so, it should be in accordance with the rules of the Banking Union, namely a bail-in? Specifically, the taxpayer must not take the fall for this. In Cyprus we have applied the bail-in, and that bail-in has hit a number of Cypriot savers hard. As far as a larger country is concerned, it cannot be that we should not stick to it. I would like to see a letter on the risks posed by TARGET2 at a later date, perhaps the Prime Minister could make a commitment to this. We have asked this before, but the answer was not entirely clear. If a country withdraws from the euro, then those risks will remain and we will remain at a loss of tens or hundreds of billions, will we not? At EFSI, I would like to know what the financial risks are for the Union. Is the financial control of the EFSI that is now doubled so well controlled that we do not face accounts afterwards because there is too little guarantee capital? Finally. The Prime Minister said outside the microphone that the food was not good, but yet Prime Minister Maij was sent away after the official summit and an EU-27 summit begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u121	You mean May. Maij is a member of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u122	I am going to visit the British cabinet as rapporteur with Mr Maij, so I was a little confused. Indeed, she is not yet Prime Minister of England. However, the Prime Minister and not Mrs Maij will be dismissed and there will be no formal agenda or documents on the future of the European Union. There may be very far-reaching options on the table. We would like to receive the documents on what will then be on the table and what will be the position of the Dutch Government. We addressed this question to the Foreign Minister a month ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u123	Mr. Chairman. Cooperation in Europe brings prosperity, jobs and the associated tax revenues. We can maintain our health care and social services from tax revenues. European cooperation also has disadvantages, think of globalisation. In Africa, where population is growing rapidly, where poverty prevails and where governments fail to put their own country in order, people are looking for a better destination. This leads to the flow of migration from Africa to Europe. The people of Europe are concerned about this. Do politicians have that under control? What does it mean when people come from other cultures on our continent and into our country? Now there are people in Europe who always see more European Union as a solution to every problem. They then talk about strengthening European institutions or introducing direct taxes. I just spoke in an interruption with the spokesman of the Democrats 66, a party that is in favour of that. On the other hand, we see people and parties who think they take people's concerns seriously, but do not really do so. They come up with fake solutions and they hope that the European Union will fall apart. The VVD, my party, wants the European Union to solve the major cross-border problems that concern people. One of the important problems in this context has already been addressed, namely migration. We can see that the European Union is working on so-called migration compacts. These are agreements with countries in Africa, for example, to keep people there and, if possible, to send them back. The VVD is very much for that. In recent weeks, we have also asked for the results in various debates. Mrs Mogherini of the European Commission would present the results before tomorrow's European Summit. Are those results back yet? We haven't seen that presentation yet. We'd like to get an insight into those results. The European Union has added value in this area. The European Union must therefore show these results. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with these results? By a number of spokesmen, not only of liberal houses, but even spokesmen of Christian houses, words were devoted to Warsaw, where the liberals came together. The Prime Minister said something there about the distressing situation in the Mediterranean. People are being sent across the sea on the basis of cynical business models of human smugglers in non-seaworthy boats. The minister said we have to drag those boats back. The VVD very much agrees. How does the Prime Minister see the implementation of this wish? What does it have to do to get that done? I would like to have more insight into that. I come to the European budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u124	We can, of course, make jokes about the sometimes shattering family relationships within the ALDE Group. I also think that these are very healthy fences, where Guy Verhofstadt, Hans van Baalen, in turn, indicates where the liberals stand in Europe. I think that's only very healthy. However, I think it is important for Mr Mulder to answer the following question. We are talking about what we want and what we do not want with Europe. Mr Mulder has also always said that Europe is important for jobs and for the payment of care and education. I couldn't agree more. But what does the VVD Group think of the fact that, on the one hand, the Prime Minister in Brussels constantly agrees with, and says yes to, all kinds of proposals and with them tries to solve people's problems, and on the other hand, in Box K in The Hague, always pretends that there are no such proposals, as if they were dreams of more Europe? That is what he says here, when he himself said yes to it in Brussels. What does Mr Mulder and the VVD Group think of this dual attitude of the Prime Minister? He's dangerous, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr Verhoeven is talking about a double attitude. I don't see them. I see a Prime Minister who has worked hard to reach an agreement with Turkey in the last spring. That's what he's been working for. Other parties in this Parliament also supported this. I can see that this has produced results. It wasn't easy to make a deal like that, but it worked anyway. And it has also produced results. After all, migration flows and the number of drownings in the Aegean have decreased. That's a result. You can stand up to Europe and hope the EU thunders. But you can also use Europe to solve people's problems. That's what the Prime Minister does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u126	Exactly. That's always the line of D66. In the case of major cross-border problems, such as problems with external borders, the fight against terrorism, the reception of refugees, you must have the courage to work together with the countries of Europe to find a solution and to do so in your own parliament. I always hear Mr Mulder and the VVD saying the same thing. But why does the Prime Minister always pretend that these are dreams of more Europe? That's what he says here, while his actions show that he's working on more Europe. What does the VVD think of the fact that the Prime Minister always says yes, and here in The Hague always pretends to say no? That's what he's saying here, when it's just demonstrably not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u127	I would like to agree with Mr Verhoeven, because we are in the liberal family together. We can joke about that, but I do not see that there is 'yes' in Europe and something else here. I see a Prime Minister entering Europe and achieving results there, going to Warsaw to say what he thinks of the future of Europe. This has been seen here in Parliament, but also across the border. We see a huge commitment to Europe to achieve results. On the one hand, the VVD welcomes the European multi-annual budget, because it reflects Europe's priorities. There is more money for migration and the security of external borders. People expect politicians to have Europe's external borders in order. The VVD welcomes that. That's important. At the same time, however, not everyone in Brussels understood it correctly. We see Mr Juncker, who has already been quoted today, calling for a voluntary fund. The Christian Democrats in the European Parliament advocate free Interrail for 18-year-olds. Are these the problems that Europe needs to solve? Is that what people are waiting for? My group does not think so. I have already said that Europe must tackle the major cross-border problems. Much has already been said about Ukraine by colleagues. The Prime Minister is working on a legally binding solution. As we have said before, we agree with the commitment of the cabinet: no military assistance, no extra bag of money, no right of access for Ukrainian workers to the European labour market and no stepping up to membership of the European Union, but the fight against corruption. We are doing justice to people's concerns and at the same time we are not running away from our geopolitical responsibility towards Russia. Russia is trying to destabilise the European Union. Exercises along the border with the Baltic States, the occupation of Crimea and, as recently, the installation of missiles in Kaliningrad, these are all attempts to destabilise Europe. We must not let ourselves be separated and give the Russians a gift by not ratifying. Mr Verhoeven asked the Prime Minister how he saw the follow-up. I'd like to answer that question. What's the timetable? Suppose there's a deal, when does the law that goes with it come to the Chamber? The Brexit has already been discussed. The Brexit will be discussed at the European Summit. I have a number of questions and comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u128	I suggest that you proceed and that Mr Jasper van Dijk be given the floor afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u129	We have now established a task force in the Netherlands that deals with the Brexit. Is that task force sufficiently invested within the government? By which I mean to say: is the leader of that task force someone who can actually pick up the phone if something is going on and call Mr Barnier directly? Did we invest that well? A number of parties have asked what the Dutch are doing in the negotiations. I have some suggestions for that. The VVD believes that Mr Barnier's mandate should not be too broad, but that he should return regularly to the Council of Ministers when important decision-making points and milestones are reached in the negotiations, so that the Netherlands and then the Dutch Parliament can take a good look at these negotiations. There is much talk of bilateral negotiations between Member States and the UK, pre-negotiations. The more transparent Mr Barnier is, the less likely that he will be. For the rest, we need to keep an eye on our business. It has not been said that the importance of the EU as a whole is the same as that of France. France is looking at the Brexit differently. While most people in the Netherlands didn't like that Brexit, the majority of the French people think that Brexit is actually good. That could tell us something about how France is in the negotiations. I'd like to get a reaction to this. We must also fight for Dutch interests, such as fisheries, as the Christian Union has already said. Finally, on the internal market. There is still much to be earned if you really finish the internal market. Amounts of 1,000 billion are doing the round, which you could still achieve in economic growth in Europe if you go further. Ireland has taken the initiative to write a letter to the European Commission..... The Netherlands has participated in this process to see how to move forward with that internal market. Can the Minister say anything about the results of this? What's that gonna do? I'm shutting down the way I started. If we can generate economic growth in Europe, it will lead to jobs, prosperity and tax revenues that will enable us to maintain our important social benefits, pensions and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u130	I would also like an explanation from the VVD on the legal statement. Does Mr Mulder recognise that the added value of the legal statement is at least questionable, especially if Ukraine does not sign in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mr Van Dijk asks that question to everyone. We are indeed curious whether this is the case. I therefore agree with the questions put to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u132	The VVD can think for itself. If we find that many experts say that such a statement has no validity if Ukraine does not sign with it, can Mr Mulder now say 'it is a pacifier for us' or does he not dare to say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mr Van Dijk is trying to provoke me. I think there have been good questions asked. We look forward to hearing the Prime Minister's answers on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u134	Has Mr Mulder taken note of the opinion of the Council attorney on the validity of any addendum proposed by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yes, the debate with Mr Omtzigt this morning was about that. We downloaded that from the Delegates Portal, as it's so beautifully called. As I said, you cannot quote from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u136	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u137	That's what makes it difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u138	But you can paraphrase out. The paraphrase that I would like to put to the Prime Minister is that no obligation on Ukraine can follow if it does not sign it or does not accept it. That is also in the Volkskrant today and in Trouw, but it is strange that I should have to consult external professors for that, when the European Union itself says so. Does the VVD Group still believe, as it did in previous debates, that a possible declaration should be legally binding and that you should go to a court to enforce it, or should that statement only be politically binding, as many VVD campaign slogans have been in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u139	I have the same reaction to that as to Mr Van Dijk's question. Those are good questions and we are very interested in the Prime Minister's response to the legal obligation that this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u140	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u141	No, I give the floor to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u142	There's something else I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u143	No, everyone asks a question and a follow-up question; so do you, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u144	I have a question about another point, about the fight for fishermen. I thank the VVD Group for its support. The name of Mr Mulder's colleague is also under the motion we tabled. That motion states that during the negotiations on the Brexit fight to suspend that landing obligation. The Secretary of State has said: well, if it comes up, then perhaps I will put up a little ball, but perhaps not. Is that not enough for the VVD group too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u145	My colleague, Barbara Visser, who is a very appropriate name, is talking about this. I'm going to Scheveningen with her next Friday to look at the fishing industry there. I am sure that we supported this motion, because it was right to draw my attention to it. I am afraid to say whether she is saying that the Secretary of State has to step up on this point. I suspect so, but she's not here right now. I know she's busy with the landing obligation, so I suspect we're pulling on the same side of the fishing net, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u146	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Mulder on his birthday, but it would also be nice if we could congratulate the fishermen on a very assertive Secretary of State who does not say 'well, if it comes up, I'll talk with you', but he does what the motion asks and so he raises it. I have already asked the Prime Minister about this. I think we're gonna pull the same net or what is it? And then we fight for the same cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u147	I think that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-4.u148	We have come to the end of the first term of office.
