ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators to section K. They can have a drink, too. That's something unique for MPs. Enjoy it! It rarely happens to us. The initiators are supported by Mr Verstappen, Mr Brederveld, Mr Rieter and Mr Boon. Once again, I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice, who is now in his role as an advisor to the Chamber and, of course, also as an advisor to the initiators. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date, of course in consultation with the initiators. We have a reasonable number of speakers from the Chamber, namely seven. They have also requested non-childlike speaking time. So we're gonna sit down for a while. First of all, Mr Van Nispen speaks of the SP Group, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a compliment to my colleagues and to their support for this fine piece of work. I am not even talking about the content of this report, but I am referring in particular to the legislative work. It hasn't been a simple job. I've been able to see that. It is a long discussion on a subject that affects a lot of people, potentially all people who promise each other eternal loyalty. Marriage isn't just anything. You promise each other faithfully to fulfill all the duties that are bound by the law to the marital state. What exactly marital duties are in the law, I don't think anyone really knows. But for many people, marriage means eternal loyalty. However, this does not apply to an increasing number of people. The reality is that almost four out of ten marriages end in divorce. So more and more people are going to have to deal with what we are talking about today. You don't usually care about the matrimonial property and the law that applies to it, as long as you're happily married. In fact, a lot of people do not know or hardly know what agreements apply to them and what their consequences are. Even people who once made a prenup don't remember what's in it. In future, in the proposal of the proposers, spouses can still arrange what they want by prenup. This remains possible, but it is important that the legal system is reviewed. The most desirable right must be in the law: the right that applies to people who have not wanted or can regulate anything else. But what is the most desirable right? That is what people think is just, but also what is easy to understand and what does not judge. So it's a system that suits people who haven't deliberately chosen to take care of something else. Since 1838 the Netherlands has been known as a basic system for matrimonial property law to the general legal community of goods. You can deviate from that by premarital condition, but if you do not arrange anything prior to marriage, then everything is from both partners together. The assets, debts and inheritances must therefore be distributed fairly in the event of a divorce. Everything's halfway through. The proposal essentially provides for the creation of a limited community of property in marriages. The proposers consider it more just that only what the spouses have built up during marriage through joint effort will fall standard in the community. Premarital property, gifts and inheritances will remain private from now on. This limited community of goods becomes the new standard, whereby people retain the freedom to deviate from it if they so wish. Let me remind you of the history. In 2008, the Chamber also held a wide-ranging debate on this issue. At that time, the Chamber, in a majority, did not support a previously proposed restriction on the overall community of goods. For the SP, the main reason for this was that it did not recognise the need for the change, but saw the risks: an insufferable obligation for both partners to continue to administer for years what belongs to them, resulting in possible legalisation after divorce. The authors have, I presume, looked closely at parliamentary history. That is why I ask them to respond, or actually reflect. What makes their proposal so much different, so much better than the one we discussed in 2008? Is that especially the introduction of evidence suspicion? Is it given that the suspicion of evidence will come into effect if after all these years you can no longer prove what belongs to who, which will not be such a problem in the case of inheritances and large gifts, but in the case of premarital property possibly? So if you can't prove something's private, it falls into the community. Does that make a difference? Is that sufficient guarantee against unnecessary judicialisation? And is this expected to work well? I would like to receive an extensive response. I see some of the advantages of this proposal at the moment, but I also see disadvantages. I'll start with the benefits. The proposal that inheritances and donations should automatically be excluded from the community of goods is understandable in itself. It does not feel right for many divorced people if the parents of one husband have made an exclusion clause and the parents of the other husband do not. Then the inheritance of Piet falls under the estate; he has to share it with his ex. But Piet's ex can keep her parents' inheritance to herself. That crooked situation could prevent this bill. But premarital property is also naturally private. So only what has been acquired by effort from both is due to both. The majority of people would support this adjustment. Although there are still doubts as to the representativeness of the studies cited by the initiators, my own assessment is that it is not unreasonable in itself. The legislative proposal can prevent problems. People are not always aware of premarital debts when entering into marriage. People are also increasingly in debt. Think also of the student debts, which are getting bigger and bigger. People get divorced more than once. In the current system, if you're the second ex-wife, you can get stuck with a debt from the first ex-wife because it's transferred through the marital community. It's a real example I've heard about recently. Mr and Mrs are breaking up, and Mrs's lawyer is getting a call from Mr's lawyer: I have an unpleasant announcement for your client; there are debts for which Mr is liable in connection with the settlement of the estate of his previous marriage. So that's how the lady pays for her ex-wife's debts. This undesirable situation may be reduced by this legislative proposal. Of course, this depends on how many people continue to choose not to deviate from the legal system. These kinds of situations were less common in the past. So social reality is changing; I can see that too. The proposers are making an attempt to join. There are also disadvantages to the proposal. The risk of legalisation and administration has already been mentioned. Keeping track of what was also theirs, of course, almost no one is going to do, especially if people have been together for a long time before they get married. The question is therefore justified as to whether a kind of general community does not arise for that group as a result of the presumption of evidence. Can this not lead to more legal proceedings rather than less? How do the proposers judge this? What does not appeal to me as a socialist to this proposal is that, however you turn it or turn it, it is a austerity of fate. There's less to share. That does a little bit detract from the romantic idea that some still have of marriage. You share everything, not only love and suffering, but also what you have. Everything is yours together. So that's not the legal standard anymore. It fits with the individualization of society, not even something I automatically get excited about. As a result, the proposal may have less levelling effect than the current law. Look, there's already a lot of inequality. Let's put that in perspective. From the WRR report "How uneven is the Netherlands?" It appears that the lower 60% of Dutch households own 1% of the assets. The vast majority therefore have an extremely modest capacity. People who do not, who do have a great capacity, will often choose to draw up a prenup. That group knows where to find the notary. So the question is whether you should burden the vast group with a system that, however you turn it or turn it, is a little more complicated than the current legal system. I would like to put that question to the proposers. So there is a lot of inequality in the Netherlands and it is a fact that many women are not economically independent, and depend on partner, family or government. But the SP thinks: leveling and fair sharing is done through collective provisions and taxes. And that the SP thinks that there can still be a tooth with that honest sharing, shouldn't be a surprise. Marriage, however, is not, in principle, a suitable instrument for combating inequality. The bonding of fate applies from marriage and should not necessarily have retroactive effect. I am sensitive to that argument from the authors. However, the suspicion remains that limiting the current marital property community may contribute to more financial problems for women, as we also heard at the hearing, especially if you know that there is also a limitation of partner alimony coming. That is a proposal from about the same proposers. That is, of course, a different debate; I understand that. But I would like to point out that in the end you will have to look at this type of proposal in conjunction. I would like more research to be carried out into a possible deterioration in the financial situation of women. More inequality is a possible consequence. In any case, I expect the authors to go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	I think the SP keeps a very reasonable story and asks a number of questions that I certainly recognize. I would like to respond to a comment from the SP on the position of women. When I look at the development over the past 50 years, I see women working more and longer and also getting married later. So they build up power themselves. Does the SP agree with me that, when it comes to justice and equality, it is perhaps a good idea to separate the premarital capacity from the community? Because women become more independent and participate more. For women who, during their marriage, take more care of the children, which I do recognize as providing care or care for them, the community does, because then the income falls within the community. I would like to receive a response from the SP to the question whether the proposal presented by the proposers does not contribute to the independence of women and is actually fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	If it were, I'd certainly find that interesting. However, I do not think that you can change something like the employment rate with such a legislative proposal. Nor can you do that by a austerity of the partner alimony, which is still coming. I don't think you can force this kind of thing by sharing less. Because no matter how you turn it or turn it, that is the result of this proposal. You can't force it by paying less partner alimony in the future. I do not think that these are the tools to ensure that the jobs we would like, such as part-time jobs, are suddenly there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	That was not the background to my question either. I share the point that legislation does not always guide you in the direction you want. I look purely at the proposal from the proposers. Women often remain more independent and build up more power. That'll keep you separate from the community. The financial position of women who may be in a more dependent situation due to children and care responsibilities falls into that community at the time of marriage. Does the SP recognize that that actually sounds reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	As Mrs Bergkamp is now presenting it, I think that is basically true. But I do respond to a concern that also lives in practice, for example at the Association of Family Law Lawyers Separation Mediators (vFAS). In the hearing, the association pointed out that it was concerned about the financial situation of many women. The SCP study in 2014 shows that 48% of all women are not economically independent. That's still a lot of women. I'd like this to be different. When I look at this proposal, it is true that less needs to be shared, not the part of the premarital property and not the inheritances and gifts. So that's what I'm worried about. I'll leave the question open. I have not yet taken a position on this, but I would very much like to know how the proposers look at this, particularly with regard to the limitation of the partner alimony that is still to come. In the context of this proposal, I would like to add a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr Van Nispen is concerned about the less sharing of premarital property. How does the SP look at less sharing premarital debts that are known or not when entering into a marriage? Precisely potential residual debts, such as tax debts and student debts, are often unknown. Doesn't this bill lead to more justice, because at least you're ruling out those debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	I can certainly imagine that question. That you can be protected from a debt from your ex that you have no knowledge of, I mentioned in the list of benefits of this bill. That can indeed lead to greater justice. The tricky thing about discussing this proposal is that no situation is the same. That's usually the case when you're talking about matrimonial property law. So yes, there are advantages to this proposal, such as the protection against a debt that you did not know or could not know about, as Mr Van Wijngaarden rightly says. However, the proposal does lead to less sharing and sometimes it can lead to more unjust situations. That's what makes the trade-off difficult. I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	Indeed, a fine contribution from the SP and also legitimate concerns about the further reduction of women's financial independence. Recognizes Mr Nispen...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	It's Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	Sorry. Does Mr Van Nispen recognise that there is no pay gap for women up to the age of 30, that they almost all work full-time and that the age at which women and men marry in the Netherlands is around 30 or perhaps over 30, so that it is precisely in favour of women that it remains private?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	That could be true. In certain situations, that may be the case, but I quote a study which shows that a lot of women are still, I say, still a lot of women are financially dependent. I am not saying that I think that is desirable or that you should turn that tide in any way, so that everyone would be independent. However, a bill like this will reduce the sharing. I'm worried about that. I'm not saying it can't be in any situation in favour of women, but I acknowledge that it's difficult. Some people are getting better and others are getting worse. In the end, you have to weigh up the whole bill and assess the overall impact. The concerns I have heard are addressed to the applicants with the request to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	I have a great deal of sympathy for those concerns. Does Mr Van Nispen agree with me that we should be concerned about financial independence after the 30th year of life? Up to the age of 30, women participate quite a lot with four or five days' work and the pay gap is then lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	I think that is a slightly different type of debate, which I have not prepared for in all honesty. This, of course, varies from one situation to another. There are women who become dependent before or never at all. I think that is a different type of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	One of the advantages of the legislative proposal is that I do not see many, but this is one of the things that is hidden debts. Someone's in a marriage or divorce, and what turns out? Males are always looked at, but sometimes it happens that women do so. Terrible! Wouldn't it make more sense, then, if criminal proceedings are to be brought, that it should always take place outside the community, as it does in company law? If two companies merge and one of the companies has concealed a debt, it will not enter that new company. Then we go to court and say, "Thank you the cuckoo, the old company has to pay for it."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	I think it's an interesting thought. As an interim conclusion, I said I haven't figured it out yet. If we choose to leave everything to the past, we could at least consider whether we can do something about this problem. I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf. I didn't call it the only advantage. There are a number of advantages to the proposal. I also see a number of disadvantages and I am not yet out of the overall balance. If Mr Dijkgraaf has a concrete proposal to address this problem in the current situation, I am prepared to take part in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	My argument would be that you don't need this bill to solve that problem. It is one of the biggest problems the bill claims to solve, but at the same time it throws away the child with the bath water because it then applies to all debts, even if they are known or if you would like to share them, also for capital money. Does Mr Van Nispen agree with me that there can be a fear that the child may be thrown away with the bath water?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	No, I wouldn't go that far. There are more reasonable sides to the proposal. I have mentioned the proposal that inheritances and gifts should be left automatically outside the community. The proposal, if I understand correctly, also protects against the so-called gold digger, someone who deliberately marries a wealthy partner who, for example, is at an age. It has more advantages than Mr Dijkgraaf's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	With the word "golddiggers," we all shut down a little bit and our imaginations run wild.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	That's why I didn't go into it anymore. My interim conclusion is that the proposal has advantages and disadvantages for the SP. My final assessment will depend on the debate. I do have one more question that relates to the substance of the proposal. Why not create a system in which people can choose from the current legal system and the system proposed by the proposers? The choice is thus made between two main systems at the time of marriage. I think it is a nice idea for people to choose between the overall or the limited community of goods, so there are not just one but two main systems. A choice must be made: there is no system to which you can fall back in the absence of a choice. Of course, we have to inform people about the consequences of this choice. That will not be a simple task, but at the core it would only be good to give people better information. Mr Segers of the Christian Union will come back to this point. I want to seriously challenge the initiators to think about this. I would like to comment on a few other points. People who want an overall community of goods in the future should settle this by making a prenup. They have to go to the notary, and that costs money. What is the estimate: for how many people do costs increase? And is this desirable? Moreover, this would not happen if the proposal I have just made were to be implemented, because then a choice must be made between the overall or the limited community of goods. I have a question about pension rights. Is this bill going to change anything about that? It now provides for pension rights to be shared only with the old-age pension which was built up during marriage, regardless of the matrimonial property regime. Can the proposers indicate whether this proposal does not change the way pensions are distributed when people break up? I'd like to present another case of unresolved debt. Person A and B are getting married. A took out a loan just before the wedding. So that debt remains of person A. A and B decide to do something about the ability they build together. They invest, buy a second house, but the debt of person A is not repaid. If A and B break up after a number of years, then only person A will pay for that debt, while the non-payment of that debt resulted from choices made by A and B together. My question to the authors is whether I see this correctly and whether this is a fair outcome of the system they are proposing. I have a question about premarital enterprises. The bill regulates the profits obtained with a pre-marital enterprise, but I do not think it is for the company itself to increase its value. Imagine marrying someone with their own company and the company is actually treated as a family business after that, where you both work very hard to make it a success, with the result that by the time you break up, unfortunately, the company has become three times as valuable as when you got married. Although the profits that the company makes each year fall into the estate, the increase in value puts the owner of the company in his pocket. Did I get this right? And is this also a fair outcome? A notary pointed out to me a technical point at first sight, on which we also had a written exchange of views. It could be important. It's about the story of debt on the community. The proposed Article 96 (3) of the Civil Code Book 1 means that a debt of husband A, who has been married in the community of goods, means that the creditor can claim only half of the common good, e.g. the house. However, if there is bankruptcy, which is a continuation of many debts, then the same creditor can claim redress on the whole community. This is apparent from Articles 63 and 22 of the Bankruptcy Act. Wouldn't it be logical to change that too? Is it reasonable for the creditor to be able to claim a claim on the private property of person B if person A is bankrupt? In the event of a debt but not a bankruptcy, the initiators proposed an amendment. Why wasn't the situation of bankruptcy also examined? I'd like a comprehensive response to this. It is good that we do not have to do this tonight and we have a moment for that, because I admit that it is a technical point. This follows on from the acquisition right. The law provides that husband B may take back his private property and that all means may be used for that purpose. In the written preparation we asked why the acquisition right can only be used if there is equity on the part of husband B. The initiators rightly say that the other husband must have something to take over common assets. That makes sense in itself, but why shouldn't debt be used for this? For example, that person can borrow money to take over a common good if, for example, there is emotional value attached to it. Can I have a comment on this? Speaking of matrimonial property rights, there is another point that the SP wants to raise, namely that cold exclusion is possible and remains possible, while it can have extremely unreasonable outcomes. If people agree together that wealth and income remain strictly separate, then one person may live as a rich man or woman after marriage, and the other, the man or woman, remains destitute, while it may well be that thanks to all the efforts of, for example, the woman, the two have become so prosperous together. In this example, this can be because the woman has worked in the husband's own company or by staying at home for the children, which means that no career has been made. The same problem arises for people who have long lived unmarried together, without regulating wealth and income. It happens. Even then, the situation may be that everything is in the name of one, and the other with nothing left behind after breaking the relationship. Of course. A deal's a deal. That applies in the case of a prenup. For single people living together, it's formal that they should've taken care of something. The SP thinks it is a good idea to create the possibility to counter unreasonable outcomes by introducing a fair correction by the judge. This has been discussed before. Research has been carried out on the initiative of the SP and the Christian Union. The report "Cold Exclusion. Material problems and injustices after the separation of married couples in cold exclusion and after the separation of unmarried co-existence partners, as well as tools for the government to combat them" by Professor Antokolskaia and others from November 2010 of the WODC is still there. As far as the SP is concerned, we are working on it. I am considering working this out myself and putting forward an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, many thanks to the initiators. It's always quite a job to propose a law to the Chamber and defend it, especially if it's such a complex matter as this. Many thanks and much respect for those who have brought this up. Unfortunately, I have to say right away that the CDA didn't have to do it. So much work for something we weren't waiting for. I'll explain why. The initiators say that this is more and more the practice, and that it should actually be the norm, because this is why it is asked. But that statement is hardly supported in any way. It is not substantiated that it really is. Is it necessary, given the current practice? What is happening is that there will be administration and there will be much unknown and possibly very undesirable tax consequences. I will come back to that in detail. Therefore, Professor Van der Burght was not wrong to point out that a lot of experts actually see a lot of objections here. Of course, this proposal also hits a very fundamental chord. The initiators believe that through the individualization of society, it is no longer appropriate for you to combine your assets when entering into a marriage. At the same time, the initiators also want to stay a little away from that fundamental discussion by emphasising that the legislator previously made the choice not to place marriage in a religious or ideological context. Actually, they're shoving that off the board a little bit. But isn't that too easy? The current legislation, with the automatic community of goods, has been consistent for many years with the principle that marriage is a lifelong commitment to destiny. The law clearly gives more value to this than the initiators seem to read in it, a much more value-bound interpretation: providing each other with the necessary, the mutual duty of loyalty, assistance and assistance. You don't read about that anymore. It's like some kind of business commitment. The present proposal turns the whole of the practice around and actually calls for an administrative obligation for married people to live. That duty relates to any expenditure or unexpected windfall. Apart from whether it's workable, collecting receipts and watching over each other's shoulder is actually a long way from what the CDA has as an ideal image of marriage. The question is whether the basis is really as big as the initiators put it. There has been no real investigation into this. Is the desire not to marry in community of goods so much greater? Reference is made to an outdated 2002 report. Is that a relevant report? Some polls have been conducted. In this, people seemed to agree with the proposal. You can also see it in the Network Notaries, but are people who turn to a notary, not just people who look at the problem in such a way? We ask the initiators openly whether there is such a social basis as the initiators assume? Because it's still the case that most people marry in community of goods. And this discussion is not new. Wouldn't you expect everyone to think: oh, there's something going on with that; we're going to do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	I have several questions for Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I will start with a reference to the VOC before this debate. Her colleague Mrs Keijzer said in that debate: does the Minister agree that there should be separation of church and state? That would be an important point for the CDA. So I am getting a little confused, because Mrs Van Toorenburg refers to the religious, ideological context and says that the authors stay a little away from it. But when we look at the Civil Code, we read that marriage is a civil relationship and that it is actually up to the people themselves what they want romantic with it, what they want religiously with it, what they want ideologically with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	I say in all honesty that the way the CDA looks at marriage is really far from the way Mrs Bergkamp perceives it. I have just mentioned those examples that the initiators stay away from, because they themselves call it that. I have just indicated that it is much more for us. It's just a lifetime commitment to fate. On the contrary, it is important to reiterate today that it is also a question of providing each other with what is necessary: mutual duty of loyalty, assistance and assistance. So it's much more than just a business commitment. That's what I've been trying to say. I can imagine that D66 is asking the question whether you shouldn't take all of that apart. You can tear it all apart fine, but that doesn't mean it's nothing more than a business deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	I'm still trying to get closer to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I agree with her that marriage is more private and personal than just a business commitment. There's a very romantic idea. I would like to go along with the "Gone with the wind" scenario; I do not think that is a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	I can hear the violins!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	But would it not have been weird if the authors had written down: we think this should be for ideological and religious reasons? Then I think the same Mrs Keijzer from the CDA would have asked about the separation of church and state. I'm a little confused. Would the CDA really have wanted the proposers to say that they wanted this because of romantic ideals, religion or ideology? I honestly hope that the house would have been too small for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	I really don't follow very well what differences Mrs Bergkamp is looking for. I am really trying to think of what I might have said about Mrs Bergkamp bringing this question to bear. I have said that this proposal is touching on principle, because the initiators say that the individualization of our society has advanced so far that what we are doing now is no longer appropriate. They stay completely away from the discussion of principle. Furthermore, I said that we believe that marriage is more than just a business agreement. In turn, the proposers indicate that you have to ignore that completely. The fact that they report that is a reason for me to ask whether you can ignore that. Isn't it much anymore? That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	We know the CDA, certainly under the leadership of Mr Omtzigt, as a party sensitive to figures and facts and in the midst of society. How does the fact that 40% of marriages end in divorce relate to Mrs Van Toorenburg's idea that marriage is an ideal construction, something romantic and a lifelong commitment? It's really different times now. The Netherlands, South Africa and Suriname are still the only countries in the world that have this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	We know the VVD as a party that thinks: when everyone thinks of themselves, everyone is thought of. That vision of life is far away from us. And yes, unfortunately, a lot of marriages are breaking down. That's gonna cause a lot of trouble. So you should think about a way to reduce these enormous problems, because it's often about fighting divorces that affect children. With those glasses on, you have to try to solve this rightly identified problem. The question is, however, whether an instrument is being proposed today that will make this problem much worse. This proposal would also make spouses accountant to each other. After all, in a divorce, you have to look at what was yours and what was his. You're getting married and then you have to pay attention to whether you've bought things together with an inheritance you've gotten. Go keep all that in a book! Yeah, it'll be a business deal, and that's what we're throwing away. I admit that, unfortunately, there are problems, but let's look at how we can solve them. In any case, let us not bring about a settlement which might make the problems much worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	Apparently Mrs Van Toorenburg does not know the VVD very well and she should get to know her. What she's saying isn't so bad. We are not breaking down the marriage in this proposal; we are bringing it to the right time. This responds to the problem we see together, namely that there are fighting divisions. Part of the divorces arise about premarital property and debts and their distribution. Does this bill not, therefore, contribute to a solution? Mrs Van Toorenburg always comes up with the argument of administrative burdens. I would like to hear from what article the administrative obligation to which she refers is due, because I have not seen that in this legislative proposal. There's a suspicion of evidence, which makes it easier for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	That ideal image is not recognized by the experts. It's as simple as that. You're gonna have to be able to prove it. You're gonna have to be able to show me what was yours and what was the other's. You're gonna have to be able to keep up with that, otherwise it's gonna be really complicated. You should have looked at Belgium, where notaries and judges have a much wider way of looking at evidence suspicions. But it's not done. Mr Van Wijngaarden and I simply do not agree on this. We don't agree that this is something that would bring you to the time. Maybe a lot of people, even within the CDA, are very happy with the possibility to make a prenup. There's nothing wrong with a prenup. It is fantastic that it can be arranged well if people are already in debt, if people have already had an earlier marriage, if people have a complicated business and they do not want to drag their husband into misery if something goes wrong with it. It's very good that we can make a prenup. Perhaps we have been very careful about this once, but let me say very clearly from the CDA today that I am glad that we know such a system. But that doesn't mean that that should be the norm. You can choose it, that's for sure, maybe we should even think together about how to do that much easier, but we don't think the reversal is right for this time. Well, then everyone would be doing it a long time ago, because they're not suckers getting married right now. Those are people who really think about it. And they don't choose it. Why not? Maybe because they don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	I've already heard Mrs Bergkamp in this round, but let's go, she's allowed one more time. But then we're going to listen to the speaker in detail again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you, Mr President, for this additional opportunity to ask a question. I have a question about the prenup. I hear Mrs Van Toorenburg say that she is very pleased that this possibility exists. It is also widely used. In fact, if we compare the Netherlands with the rest of Europe, it is the frontrunner. There is no country in Europe where so much prenup is made. My question to the CDA is as follows. There are 230,000 wills per year in which there are all kinds of exclusion clauses and the Netherlands is also the leader in terms of prenup. Does the CDA not think that there is a signal that there are a lot of corrections to the existing system that embraces the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	No, because the majority of the people who are getting married don't get married on a prenup. We, as senior Members of Parliament, will discuss this with each other. Probably the average of prenup is higher in this room than in our society. But apparently the need is really less than Mrs Bergkamp wants to believe. That is why I think it is right that people should be able to set conditions. There is that possibility. But it's not like most people are waiting for it. After all, they would have done it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	The CDA indicates that it is sensitive to investigation and the facts. That appeals to me as a D66 man. On the basis of what research is Mrs Van Toorenburg so sure that the majority of the population wants community of goods consciously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	For the simple reason that the majority of people who marry do so in community of goods. It's just that. If they didn't want to, they could do it very easily. And let's not think that all those people automatically opt for community of goods because they're too dumb to think that they can get married under prenup. Seriously, these people aren't stupid. Those people are very smart and they know very well that you can choose, but they don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	I see that you also want to ask a question, Mr Van Wijngaarden, but we are going to listen to Mrs Van Toorenburg again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	Things are moving fast, because my next block was about the fact that it is very good that people who have different opinions can also decide differently. One can choose to have a prenup, to make wills or to draw up good exclusion clauses. If that is so valuable and if the initiators think that all these people are going to go to slaughter like some kind of lamb, should we not look together to see if you could improve the information to ensure that everyone knows what they are doing? The interesting thing is that, if you turn it around later, all kinds of people have arranged something that they hardly know what it means. Making a mistake is almost worse than not taking care of something. If you don't want to take care of it right now, you have a whole community, but if you really want it selected specifically, that's fine. Then you can have it all figured out and you know you've arranged it well and worked it out. What is also interesting is that there is so much emphasis on the idea that we in the Netherlands are a bit of an outsider in Europe, and that we should be talking about it for that reason alone. We would almost be a backward country, because all the countries around us would have arranged it better and differently. I was a little surprised to see that, here in the Chamber on matrimonial property law and family law, we suddenly want to reflect on Europe, as if we were trying to get along with Europe. I am very pleased that we, as the Netherlands, have a very own family right, that we have set our own course, that we even know a registered partnership, that we know lesbian parenthood, that we know a parent adoption, that we know gay marriage and that we have the current inheritance right. If we only looked at the countries around us, we would never have all these things. We have sailed our own course in this matter. Are we suddenly going to say that we are a backward country and that we should look at the countries around us in particular? I find that so strange! We really shouldn't do that. We really do not care whether we are European or not. A very important point we want to discuss today is the administrative burden. From the Written Round, the picture emerges that married people, as a result of this legislative proposal, will now have to look after their receipts. If married persons under the proposed scheme have not properly administered what belongs to whom, with whose money what has been purchased and with whose money has been replaced broken stuff, they cannot comply with the evidence rules of Article 94 (8) of BW Book 1. At least that's how we understand it. Then everything is supposed to be in common. For both parties and for the notary or lawyer, divorce or death is very difficult to determine whose assets were. Failure to keep records could eventually lead to an overall community, while the initiators wanted to avoid it. It should also be remembered that the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation does not find that the settlement of a community after a dissolution with this proposal will not be easier, with the result that for married persons who are not in the administration will not match their marital regime with their choice. In fact, they have been messed around in some kind of system that they think was never what we wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	If the fact that the majority in the Netherlands does not marry on a prenuptial basis is the criterion for the CDA why this legislative amendment is not necessary, what does it think of the situation in the countries around us? In Germany, for example, marriage on a prenup is more or less the basic model. There they also do not make a massive prenup to go back to the Dutch model, namely to marry in the community of goods. Are the Germans and the Belgians stupid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	I am sometimes very boring English; I studied law in England. The English have a very nice expression: if it ain't broken, don't fix it. In the Netherlands it is perfectly arranged. Our system has all kinds of aspects that are interwoven. You have an overall community in the Netherlands and if you have reason for yourself to do it differently, you can do it fine. That is our system and we can be proud of it. It's still being used that way. That's why our vision is: don't change it. It's so much more than just an exchange of receipts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	Again, are the Belgians and the Germans stupid in the CDA's reasoning? In addition, the possibility of marrying on a prenuptial basis remains in existence. As I read, the initiators aim at this bill that a limitation of the community of goods becomes the basic model: not automatically an overall community of goods, but a limited community of goods. In addition, the possibility of a prenup remains there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	I'm not saying other countries around us are stupid. However, I do think that they are lagging behind on a lot of points. I do not see whether other countries are doing so much smarter than we are doing in the area of family law, quite the contrary. I do not see why we should suddenly look around at this one individual point. Our thesis is that it is perfectly arranged in the Netherlands. Most people marry in community of goods. Many people do not do so and are properly supervised. The Chamber has even improved that, which has made it a little cheaper. That can all be much easier, fine. We can make many more models. I taught them all when I was in law school. But if the majority of people do not ask for this, why do we impose these administrative burdens on them? If they did not do it right, they thought they had a separate community. But then the man with the hammer comes along, telling them that it isn't at all. Then maybe you fooled them. I don't want to. I can see some red tape. This has also been clearly demonstrated by the written rounds and the hearing. It will be a paper reality that will probably be very far removed from practice. Take the initiator's answer to the question whether there are any drawbacks to the administrative obligation imposed. The initiators say: it is everyone's own responsibility to ensure that there is sufficient evidence for the private character of the goods, if the other husband would dispute that the property is a private property. They don't see it as busy, but as a normal fact of being married that you make sure that you have enough evidence to show what your private capacity is. They are responsible for this. This vocabulary does not fit in with the way we want to look at the system. I think I said a few things about that. What also raises many questions is the involvement of creditors. Professor Reinhartz has pointed out that private credit institutions can still take half a story on the marriage community. In some cases, this will mean that the husband to whom the debt is not due will still pay for the other husband's private debts. This bill does not really seem to solve the problems. In the end, it still appears to be a major problem. This expert called it a dead sparrow for a reason. I would like to receive a response from the initiators. I would like to add a very complicated point: I will make a proposal, Mr President, not to overburden you, namely the whole fiscal part, the tax consequences of this legislation. We have paid close attention to this, not very deep-seated. We have asked for a more precise assessment of the tax implications and for the proposal to be adapted or implemented in one way or another. If we did not do so, we could have the situation that tax law does not fit in with this bill. We think you should look very carefully at that. According to the bill, one spouse is entitled to a certain asset, while the tax on that asset sometimes belongs to the other spouse. That's weird. There are some things that are not clear. It is very unclear about inheritance taxes, gift rights and taxation. The initiators have quite bluntly said that they do not think that they should have paid much attention to this: it does not really matter what taxation looks like, we simply regulate civil law. Tax law then follows. However, it is not that simple. Tax law will have to be adapted, because it does not change itself. We therefore still have questions about many aspects which are purely fiscal and very detailed. We asked the initiators whether we could involve the Secretary of State for Finance in this bill to ask him to respond to all kinds of tax matters. Unfortunately, this request is blocked. I find that sad, because you see that we are now talking about a law with all kinds of tax and complex legal aspects, on which we do not see enough. I refer to the doctrine of the rights of compensation, the claims and the taxes relating to them, the housing arrangements, the provision of services, the tax transfer arrangements, problems with donations, the impact on the Succession Act on that point and the application of the proposed Article 94 (7) of Book 1 of the Civil Code. These major tax issues and possibly even more complex tax problems have actually been marginalised. Mrs Bergkamp knows me like no other. I say a lot of times, you have to want to look the monster in the mouth. In this case, for someone who hates tax law, that's really a monster. What did I do? I let Pieter Ommzigt go. But if you do, he's gonna ask a lot of questions. Often I don't even quite understand what the question is, let alone that I could fill in what the answer should be. I have made a proposal to the Registry to put this complex matter together neatly with a question. I would like to give this to the initiators and ask the President to add it to the Acts, so that the initiators can look at it quietly and answer me, so that, even when the First Chamber looks at this later, we have an answer to these aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	I even have a copy for the Stenographic Service, so they can enjoy it right away. It's complicated matter. Let us work together to ensure that we have settled these complex issues properly. You must always have an immediate principle in the debate that everything is discussed. I have a great deal of respect for Mr Van Nispen, who has gone a step further than I have, but we are going to ask people if I am going to do that again now, around nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	Is Mrs Van Toorenburg prepared to admit that in the course of her speech she put forward an assumption as proof? It argues that the majority of people in the overall community of goods marries and that therefore the majority is for the general community of goods as a standard regime. Isn't this an assumption instead of evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	No, it's not. If everyone wanted this construction very badly, the majority of the Netherlands would have arranged this construction long ago, because this could have been done long ago. Anyone can just take care of this. If the majority of people want this, you could choose that. We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	I would point out that a majority of the House has made this proposal, and not for nothing. Surely it is completely impure and unreasonable to say that people, because they do not go and masse to the notary to have prenup, are therefore for the general community of goods?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	That's actually what I'm saying. After all, people can arrange it very easily and very cheaply nowadays and everyone knows that you can do it this way. Much more costs are incurred in a marriage, so if people were really attached to this, they would have arranged it a long time ago. On the other hand, Mr Van Wijgaarden is quite right. If this becomes law in the end, we Christian Democrats are enough to think about how we can serve people and ensure that the law is properly implemented. We are not a troublemaker; we have never been, and we are not now. However, this is the time when we deal with the law and we say that we do not have any warm feelings about it. I notice that the majority in society, including among young people, are the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mr. Chairman. Dutch family law is in need of modernisation. The current legal frameworks of the personal, family, inheritance and gift law are not always in line with practice. Dutch society looks different than it did 50 years ago. A few figures: in 1960, 90,000 marriages were concluded, in 2014 they were only 65,000. On the other hand, in 1960 5,000 marriages were dissolved, while in 2014 that number grew to 35,000. The number of single people is also growing. In 1995, these were still 2 million, and in 2014 there were 3.3 million. The same applies to the number of step-families. In 1995 there were 115,000, in 2014 that number grew to 184,000. All these figures indicate that society has changed. D66 is actively working to identify the current legislative bottlenecks and to adapt them to the realities of family and family life as far as possible. D66 calls that "the family of today." The authors of the bill also contribute to the necessary modernisation of family law and matrimonial property law. The explanatory memorandum shows that the proposal also enjoys political support, in legal practice and, looking at the proposers, political support. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the authors, the staff and the support for the proposal and for the time and energy they have put into it. I know from personal experience that a parliamentary survey and also an initiative law are the gems of parliamentary work. In my contribution, I will explain why D66 warmly welcomes this proposal. However, I do have a number of questions for the authors. The proposal we are discussing today aims to limit the size of the legal community of goods. This makes a limited community of goods the standard of matrimonial property law. Only the property that husbands built during marriage will fall within the community. This means that premarital property, gifts and inheritances will continue to be private property. For D66 this is a point of principle. What's private will also remain private. If you don't, there's the way to the prenup. We believe that property acquired before marriage should not become commonplace as a matter of course. Current matrimonial property law still regulates this, while people are often unaware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	It is a very fundamental point that the property built up for marriage is private and does not end up in the community of goods. We are now talking about financial assets, but people are building up everything for their marriage, including social capital and training, with which they are building earning capacity. In addition to financial matters, they also take all kinds of other matters into the marriage that may or may not affect their financial performance later. Does Mrs Bergkamp say that it's a matter of principle for D66 that everything you've been through before marriage is for yourself and that you're not going to share it together? That leads to a society I'd rather not live in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	I like that question. When people get married, I think they have things in common. Hobbies and stuff like that, they take the wedding with them. That's their personal and personal reaction. The proposal we are discussing today concerns gifts, inheritances and assets that you have built up for marriage. That's private and shouldn't be like some kind of automatism rolling community into it. If people think otherwise, then there is now the possibility of a prenup and later on, just the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	Something's weird. Suppose someone did a study and built up a student debt of €40,000. D66's reasoning is that it's private, that it doesn't enter the community. With that study he has built up working capacity, making him earn more than anyone else. He'll go into that community. If you were consistent, you'd say that debt doesn't go along, but that earning capacity doesn't. Surely that would be the consequence of the D66's, i.e. an individual society and not a society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	No. The SGP cites a very extreme example. Of course, people bring all kinds of things to marriage. That's why people are gonna marry each other. The basic story is that what you've built up in advance of wealth, gifts and inheritances are the three topics we're talking about: private property. People can, of course, deviate from that, in the form of a prenup. What's another advantage of that is that people consciously think about it and say to each other "gosh, I'm okay with taking the blame" or "I'm okay with bringing my ability into that community." Those possibilities remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	I can only conclude that according to D66, you're allowed to take everything you've built up, just not your financial assets and your debts. That is a very limited view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	The proposal also deals with the following. If people have all kinds of goods in common by means of a social contract, then they take what was before community into the community. So I do not recognize myself in the certainty with which the SGP formulates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	We have had a wide-ranging debate here on assumptions, on what people would and would like to think. Now we are talking about the choice between one and the other, and all the advantages and disadvantages of it. Isn't it very paternalistic to decide for people? Shouldn't we just give people freedom to choose between prenup, community of goods and limited community of goods when they have to decide?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	This is quite a breakthrough, because the SGP actually thinks that people should choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	The Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	Sorry, the Christian Union. The Christian parties, I'm just saying. I think that's a breakthrough. After all, it is strange that there is some sort of automatism that people cannot actually choose. After all, there is a community, a general community of goods. There are no choices in that. If people want to choose, they have to draw up a prenup. So I think it is a breakthrough that the Christian Union actually agrees with D66 that it is important that people think more consciously about how they manage things. In the proposal we are discussing today, there is that possibility. When people take their debts or their assets into the community, that is a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	One automatism is replaced by another. Where people would now be chosen, namely for the community of goods, they would be re-elected, i.e. for their limitation. Would the D66 Group feel that we should think along with an amendment so that we really can give people all the freedom that we need to call upon a liberal like Mrs Bergkamp when they can and must make a choice, so that they can make it in complete freedom without the automaticism that is now imposed either on the side of the proposers or on the side of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	D66 is always willing to think creatively about all possible amendments and motions. I'm being honest in this case. We believe that this proposal is in line with current practice. We have just had an interrupting debate on whether there is support for this. You can really think differently about that, or you really need to survey the entire Dutch population. We believe that there is sufficient information from the notary, justice, politics and also society to show that there is a great need for this proposal. We therefore believe that this reality should become the norm. Again: I want to look very creatively at creative proposals, but I give the Christian Union little chance that the D66 group will go along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	I find this truly disappointing! The accusation just made by the D66 Group to the CDA Group was: you know exactly how people think and what they want; that is paternalistic and not good. Now Mrs Bergkamp comes up with a new standard: this is the practice; we agree with that; don't you like it, bad luck. If D66 really is a liberal party and really stands for freedom of choice, at least think along in this direction. I'm in favour of real freedom of choice. I'd like to think about that. It would be nice if D66 would take a step in the liberal direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	I am, of course, always charmed by Mr Segers for, in this case, his entrapments. Of course, I always think about that. I think it's kind of lame. There is now a proposal from the Christian Union to create freedom of choice, because there is an initiative legislative proposal. Of course, the Christian Union could have come up with a proposal much earlier. The Christian Union is being triggered because there is a proposal. I think that's a bit of the wrong order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	I find this a little faint, but let me not talk about it further. Mrs Bergkamp calls it a breakthrough that the Christian Union is prepared to consider whether the legal system fits what we want, as a safety net for people who, for whatever reason, have not arranged anything. Now that Mr Segers is taking part in the question of how we can ensure that people can freely choose a system that suits what they want, Mrs Bergkamp does a bit of closing the door by saying: I am giving it little chance; this is what is right. I'm gonna ask her to take a minute. It doesn't have to be completed in one go tonight. We're not voting next Tuesday. I ask her: please take a serious look at that. The good thing about the proposal is that people are being reminded and that we need information. You have to think about it, because you have to choose between the current system and the proposal from the proposers. Can Mrs Bergkamp respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	I notice the disappointment with Mr Van Nispen, but I hope he also appreciates that I do not want to raise false expectations. I think that's important. There are many promises in politics that are not being fulfilled. I think it is important to at least express that I am always open to creative ideas, but I simply think that the proposal of the initiators is better. In view of the investigations that have been carried out and given the political support and support for the notary and legal practice, it simply fits better with reality. Freedom of choice is fine with me, and fortunately it remains. Imagine if prenup wouldn't have been possible anymore, then these proposers would have had a problem with D66. You can always correct by prenup. So that freedom of choice remains, only we are turning the norm now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	Exactly. We're turning the norm now. The proposal made by Mr Segers, which I have asked for, is a system of choice. You ask people to make a choice. I think that's real freedom of choice. I would therefore like to urge Mrs Bergkamp to think a little longer about this and not to close the door. That would be a shame, also for the further development of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	I'm not shutting the door. Again, I have indicated that I am always open to creative ideas that emerge in debates, but I do not want to raise false expectations. That wouldn't be neat, either. The second reason why we are embracing this proposal is the changing social reality. We are also looking at the wishes of a new generation of husbands. People often marry at a later age, so they often build a greater wealth before marriage. The position of women is also more independent than 50 years ago. It also builds up a greater private capacity. It also benefits from the fact that its premarital capacity is not automatically shared. It is therefore not surprising that this new generation of spouses is increasingly marrying under prenuptial terms; about 25% to 29%. Looking at the practice, therefore, matrimonial property rights are also in need of modernisation. My third point is about divorces. If you're talking about marriage, you're talking about divorce automatically, unfortunately. Marriage under a prenup has another reason. The reality is that there are a lot of divorces in the Netherlands; more than a third of the people are going to divorce. As far as D66 is concerned, it makes much more sense to have to share only what was generated during the marriage. Suppose you're married to a community of goods and you've invested in start-ups or you've bought a house and your partner has built a big debt for marriage. When you get divorced, you're still responsible for your ex-wife's guilt. The question is whether that is so right. In that same divorce, you must share with your ex the gifts and inheritances you received. That's how you get into the situation where you're actually suffering from unwanted debt, while your ex benefits from your inheritance. That does not feel fair and can also lead to conflicts. The drafting of a prenup can prevent this. This is becoming more and more common. At present, there are three reasons why people agree to a prenuptial agreement: protecting inheritances, keeping debts separate and corporate risk. With this bill, these aspects are automatically excluded from the community in the limited community of goods. Thus, couples who want to do so don't have to make the hallway to the notary anymore. On the contrary, there will be fewer legal arrangements around marriage, because fewer prenuppositions need to be drawn up. These costs therefore no longer need to be incurred. More importantly, however, those who wish to marry under the general community of goods in a possible separation will no longer be faced with unexpected effects and surprises. They have made a conscious choice in that situation. They talked about the partner's debts and the assets. There is a fourth reason why we support this bill. As I illustrated before, premarital property also included the debts incurred before marriage. Many people who marry in the community of goods are often unaware of the partner's debts. Debts are made quickly nowadays; a gambling debt, a tax debt, you name it. These debts are often not visible from the outside. Many people are not sufficiently aware of this. People who are aware of it choose the prenup. We think that this is a serious problem and this proposal will solve it. For people with high incomes, who can make higher debts, for example, this bill is also important, but we still have a question for the proposers. What about people with a small wallet? We shouldn't just talk about people with a lot of power. What advantages does this bill have for people with a small wallet? Unfortunately, for my fifth point, I will stick to the issue of divorces. Divorces also lead to new families: people get a new partner, new brothers and sisters join. The number of divorces also increases in the number of step-families, which we also call "compound families" with a modern term. At present, about 10% of Dutch families are composed of families. If you marry again, it is not unthinkable that you take wealth or debts from your previous relationship. As a result, it is also customary for people in a family to draw up a prenup. After all, you don't want to be stuck with the debts your new partner has built up in an earlier marriage. It is also often important for children. Imagine this: a man and a woman are married and have children, the woman dies and the man remarries another woman, who also has children. We can imagine that these children still want to keep the claim to that ability and not want it to be passed as a kind of mix or flow to step family and in-laws. We would also like to draw attention to this group, to the way children look at it. This is often the subject of conflict. We sometimes think differently in the Chamber, but I have heard a few times that information is so important. I'm happy about that. It's a subject that embraces D66. Often people marry from a romantic point of view, there's nothing wrong with that, but we also notice that there's often no conscious thought about what the consequences are for family, children, the family. Nor is it exceptional that people think: I'm getting married, because it's all legally well arranged. However, problems often arise later. So we think it is important that people are well informed. What do the proposers of a government-led approach to information, aimed at the bourgeois state, the municipality, the notary and the legal practice, find to better inform people about marriage and contracts for other forms of society? D66 considers this a very important subject. We hope for a nice, good response from the proposers. I'm going to retire. It seems quite simple in the proposal: pension rights fall outside the community and the claims accumulated during marriage, such as retirement pensions, are settled but not pre-marital claims. I ask the proposers whether the assumption is correct that this bill does not actually change anything for the pension structure. I do have some technical questions, for example on the basis of risk and the basis of construction, but it would be nice if the proposers could explain the implications of the proposal for the pension. I'll be on paperwork. In the written round, there was a detailed response to this. What are the consequences? I must say that this member of the D66 Group is a bit relieved by the answers. Turns out what? There's no administrative duty. Of gifts and inheritances, you have documents. Real estate cases are often registered in a register. The discussion would then be about real estate. I always think of the song "Cd of you, CD of me" by Acda and De Munnik. Then how can you get a sharp distribution? There is no administrative obligation. The notaries, as I read in the answer to the written questions, also said: if you agree with each other, you don't have to do anything else with them. There's also a suspicion of evidence. Nevertheless, given the social debate, I think it is important for the initiators to go into this a little more comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	I do not understand Mrs Bergkamp's question about pension rights. It's just part of the bill, isn't it? Article 94 deals, inter alia, with pension rights. So the community includes everything, except pension rights and survivor's pension. Then how can Mrs Bergkamp assume that nothing changes in pensions if that is just part of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	I am glad that Mrs Van Toorenburg is asking this question. I'm asking because I didn't think it was entirely clear in the answer. I have read what the authors say about this: pension rights are outside the community. Actually, it is. The bill doesn't change anything about that. It is also said that entitlement to old-age pensions accumulated during marriage is offset, but not the pre-marriage claims. That is actually already part of the law on settlement pension rights in the event of divorce. So the proposers don't change that either. But just to be safe, I think it's important to ask that question. It's good to get this a little sharper. Mrs Van Toorenburg now sits down, so hopefully she agrees with me that I will put that question to the proposers. I come to the international aspect. We are talking about Dutch matrimonial property law, but I will take you across borders. With our current system, we are an outcast in the Netherlands. In most countries around us, a limited community of goods is already the rule. In an increasingly international society, it is important that our family law is also in line with the standard of the systems around us. Family is increasingly crossing borders and marriages are often cross-border. Foreigners who marry Dutch people are sometimes surprised when, often in divorce, they realize that the community of goods also concerns premarital property and the inheritances and donations. As has also been established by the Commission on European Family Law, we are actually in the extreme of the spectrum. The Netherlands is the frontrunner in terms of prenup, as I said in an interrupting debate with Mrs Van Toorenburg. There are no countries in the world with so many prenup. Surely that indicates a correction on the system. As far as D66 is concerned, the Dutch system is therefore better adapted to the international standard. This will prevent problems, including in cross-border marriages. That's what this bill provides for. I'd like to get a confirmation from the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	I'm almost convinced it's a rhetorical question, but I just want him asked. Is D66 not intensely happy that the Netherlands is an outsider in Europe as far as family law is concerned? Shouldn't we count our blessings instead of looking at which systems have countries around us? Then we are, at least in the spirit of D66, bar far from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	I liked the fact that Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke about the opening up of civil marriage to equal-sex couples. I can remember that the CDA was against this in a lot of discussions, but for the last time at all. Hopefully, in this proposal, we will also see that the CDA is first opposed but afterwards thinks: we are overtaken by reality. It was indeed a rhetorical question, but it is nice to be able to answer it this way. I'm getting to the end of my story. I think it is important to summarise the arguments briefly. D66 considers it important to adapt the matrimonial property law and to make the limited community of goods the standard. That is a point of principle. What's private must remain private. Modern times call for a modern matrimonial property right. Thus, the new generation of husbands marries later and therefore has a greater wealth. Both women and men also have an independent position. Marriages often end in divorce and more complex families emerge. In addition, more and more people are getting married under prenuptial terms. This proposal lays down the most appropriate conditions. The position of creditors is also limited and their spouses are better protected, because creditors can no longer claim the premarital debts of husband A on husband B's private property. Finally, with the limited community of goods, the Netherlands is more in line with international standards, in this case in a positive sense. Cross-border marriages are therefore less problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	This was your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	I still have a very small tail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	Then we'll owe you one. We're making it exciting. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	That's a cliffhanger. I hope Mrs Bergkamp doesn't mind my thinking for a while. There's legislation in front of it. It just seemed as if she blamed me for thinking along, because I had not come up with that idea earlier, while we are now dealing with legislation. Now it's up; now we have to talk about it. I would like to comment once more on freedom of choice. Mrs Bergkamp mentioned the advantages at the end of her speech. Can she explain to me why it is fair that someone who wants to marry in a limited community of goods should not lose money on that, but someone who wants to marry in a community of goods should go to the notary and get a big bill for that? What's right about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	We hope that this proposal will be more in line with the social needs and that fewer people will have to go to the notary to arrange prenup. To be honest, we assume that this is more in line with practice: fewer people to the notary, so less costs. That is an immediate question to the authors; perhaps they have also thought about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	That is the paternalism that I have just sensed: it fits better with the social need and I think that people want it. My question was another one. What is fair about me having to pay a big bill if I want to get married in a community of goods, while someone who wants to marry in a limited community of goods doesn't have to pay for it? I hope Mrs Bergkamp can explain that. What is the righteousness of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	I would first like to respond to the comment about paternalism. Mr Segers said this in response to the fact that I indicated that this is a proposal that is better suited to practice. That would be paternalism. I think it is a task of a representative of the people to pay attention to this and to come up with laws that are acceptable. In view of the applicants, there is political support. We have also talked about a number of studies, about notary and legal practice, and this shows that there is support for this. So the remark that this is paternalism, I don't recognize. I now turn to the question of what is right about it. I find another thing fair in the proposal and that is that with it the premarital property and the inheritances and donations no longer fall as automatism in the community. That's what I think is right. So it is not so much about the costs of the notary, whether or not. What I have just mentioned is an improvement in this proposal. Also, I think it's okay that you should take care of something consciously if you don't want to do this. That way, in a marriage, you won't be confronted with debts from your partner or with the fact that someone might marry you because of your assets and you won't notice it until you're married. That is what I think is right and not so much the point about the two proposals. I can only say that I find it more just that we expect fewer people to go to the notary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	I liked that Mrs Bergkamp said: I want as few people as possible to go to the notary. She also wants to join what is desired in society. If that's what you want, isn't it appropriate that you give that choice at the wedding? Then the people who want to marry in full community of goods, also don't have to go to the notary. Some of the people definitely want this. We can argue about what percentage and what is representative, but one thing is for sure: quite a few people want this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	I think I've been misunderstood. For me, it's not an end in itself that fewer people go to the notary. I think notary is a nice profession and I also give the notary a lot of clients. I think that a consequence of this proposal is that people need to arrange fewer things in advance, such as the prenup. I think that's an advantage for the people themselves. I think that's much more important than the effects on the notary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	So do I, because I give every notary his sandwich. In my opinion, it is Chamberwide and the government will, I think, go along with it. That's all fine. But it is nice when as many people as possible have to arrange as little as possible. If they get the choice between two options, you just increase the group that doesn't have to make any costs and don't have to take a step to the notary. In addition, you encourage people to make a conscious choice for a model. Then they're gonna think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	In my view, this is the so-called two-scenario model that we have already addressed in various interruptions. That's what's happening in the Chamber now. I think that's an interesting and creative idea, so I'm gonna look into it. But I think the proposal now before us is better. I think it's very confusing for people to choose between two scenarios. That seems complicated to me. I wonder what the authors think of that. Imagine them saying: we embrace that! Well, then I'm gonna have to change my story a little bit in the second term. It seems to me to be rather complicated to present two scenarios. I think that this proposal is more in line with reality and the norm. That is why we welcome this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	Now your closing words will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yeah, the cliffhanger; well, there wasn't really a cliffhanger. I thank the authors once again for this proposal. This adapts Dutch matrimonial property law to the social practice and legal practice of today. We have been talking in this Chamber since 2003 about modernising matrimonial property law. We've been around 13 years. We therefore believe that it is now really time to make this modernisation battle with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors. This initiative proposal is based on craftsmanship. I also look forward to the second row when I hand out my compliments, because I know from experience that there is at least as much work in the second row as in the first row. Of course, I say this with all due respect to the three petitioners who are here. We shall begin the debate. I have many questions and comments and my group is already very interested in the answers that are going to be given in the future of this debate. But, of course, mostly my compliments; I thank everyone for the work that has been done. The desire of the three initiators is clear: the community of goods, which applies if you do not agree further if you marry, must become a limited community of goods. It only includes the assets that partners build together during their marriage. Premarital abilities, gifts and inheritances remain outside the community. You can still marry in full community of goods, but then you have to go to the notary, with an account. An earlier proposal to this effect was changed in 2008 by Mr Anker of the Christian Union so that the community of goods remained the starting point. The initiators are still trying to change that today. I have a lot of questions and concerns about this and I would like to tell the initiators. First of all, I think that the initiators have asked themselves too little what a marriage means to people. When you read the plans of the initiators, you almost get the idea that marriage is just an agreement to distribute goods. Now a marriage can be an entire enterprise, but this is a little too business-like for me. Marriage is more than a contract on the distribution of goods. It is a covenant between two lovers who promise to take care of each other and stay together until death do them part. It's a decision to form a community together. I believe that the initiators have taken this too little as a starting point. They choose a very individualistic approach, while for most couples the starting point is that you want to form a family and a marriage together. For the Christian Union, the community of goods is not necessarily or in principle linked to marriage. In certain cases it can be very wise to conclude a prenup, for example if you have a company. Of course, I know marriages don't always end with the death of the partner. One in three marriages unfortunately end in divorce. However, the rules that apply to a legal standard must be consistent with the still widely shared view of what and what marriage is about: entering into a lifelong community in which you share love and suffering. I am not convinced that people no longer see the general community of goods as the standard form. In addition, there are a lot of practical objections to the alternative that the initiators present today. That does not make it attractive to automatically shatter the fate of husbands. I'd like a response from the initiators to some incorrect images of the bill. For example, I noticed that the proposal was presented today in the media as if the prenup was going to be standard. That seems to me to be wrong. The initiators propose a limited community of goods, in which only the assets that partners build together fall. But you don't record things in advance, like by prenup. In this case, you get a lot of small print unsolicited at your wedding, without knowingly signing for it. That's a big difference from a prenup. It matters a lot in practice. After twenty years of marriage, the different abilities that need to be pulled apart are a gordian knot. Another false image I want a reaction to is about fighting divorces. The initiators pretend that their proposal would prevent a lot of trouble in divorces, but I fear, quite frankly, the opposite. I'm not the only one in there. Among other things, the Association of Family Law Lawyers Separation Mediators has pointed this out. The dissolution of a marriage without any special agreement between the partners will involve at least three different assets: the private property of both partners and the property of the marital community. There has often been no conscious choice for power separation, but there is a complicated situation in relation to that ability. A person who chooses cold exclusion consciously does so and makes a choice that includes a certain behavior during the marriage. For example, you keep your assets separate and keep records. It's complicated enough sometimes. Those who do not regulate anything and who go before the standard regulation generally do not keep track of anything at all. This will lead to a plate of spaghetti. I am afraid that closed marriages will soon have to be analyzed by notaries or lawyers on the basis of unsorted bank statements for a few decades. I foresee chaos, while the initiators promise clarity. They assume too easily that from now on everyone will keep a proper record of all their abilities, while the practice shows otherwise. A standard arrangement for marriage shouldn't be burdened with enormous regulatory burdens. Moreover, the initiators come up with a solution to this problem. For this, they seize the already existing evidence. Simply put: if it can't be proven that it's different, it's a good common one. I have two problems with that. Firstly, people who marry under the standard regime of a limited community of goods may sometimes be deceived. They think it's perfectly arranged and they don't have to agree on a prenuptial agreement, but they have to administer it firmly, otherwise a good is still part of the common power. Are the initiators not afraid that husbands now rely too much on protecting their property, while suspecting evidence, because it is not written, will prevent a lot of claims that husbands think they have in advance? Don't the initiators expect to reduce the number of prenup without achieving the desired results? A second problem is that it rubs between the presumption of evidence and the principles of the limited community of goods. In the event of a divorce, partner A and partner B will be given the opportunity to take a different view in a dispute over who the banking system is under the legislation. One uses the evidence, the other uses the evidence. Precisely because the evidence in this case will not always be kept conscious and both partners will be convinced of their own equal, I expect that many divorce conflicts will arise where a judge must be involved. I do not share the image in the pieces that the evidence suggests creates clarity. I do not think that is sufficiently substantiated either. As I have said, I find lawyers and notaries by my side. I simply do not understand the ambiguity of this bill. For prenuptial terms, I find the workings of evidence acceptable, because people consciously choose to do so, they can make clear agreements about it and take responsibility for it in the course of their marriage. However, for a standard arrangement, I find this potential too great a source of conflict and uncertainty. Again, where clarity is promised by the initiators, I foresee the opposite. I would like to draw particular attention to a number of additional factors of complexity, first of all the living together. The initiators know that nine out of ten people who are married today have first lived together. The joint wealth you build up while living together without agreeing on it is subject to a regime other than matrimonial property. That is what the initiators accept in the letter of amendment by adding co-property to the community in marriage. That may prevent the emergence of a fourth power, but I do not know whether it will become much clearer. It remains to be determined whether the assets acquired during the cohabitation are attributable to the private property or to the community of goods. In the general community of goods that now applies, all the wealth is simply absorbed by the community. That doesn't happen with this bill anymore. The result is that, by default, extra complex situations can arise without partners being aware of them. That is not desirable, whereas the proposal states that it is appropriate to respond to modern needs. I'd like to get a response from the initiators on that point. There is also a need for complexity with regard to governance over the community of goods. This is becoming more complicated in the limited community of goods because of the many capabilities that other rules apply, again without any conscious decision and hence administration. However, the initiators did not choose to change this with it, for example through 1:88 Civil Code on the consent requirement. I would like to hear from the initiators how they look at this issue and whether they also recognise that it is not going to be easier on this point. I have a question about the entrepreneurial capacity in relation to the limited community of goods. What if, from the point of view of matrimonial property, investments are made to serve a company already established before marriage by one of the matrimonial partners? For example, where does a PC that is used for work belong? When is it reasonable to set off profits made in the company between the two spouses? Suppose the man starts working less and looking after the children, so that the woman can build her business full-time. Is this also due to an effort which, following the letter of amendment, is subject to'reasonable remuneration'? If so, how exactly is it going to establish that reasonable remuneration? Isn't this a source of conflict, too? Should husbands who want to do it neatly transfer a reasonable monthly fee from husband A's account to husband B? There are still some questions for me. Another problem I see with private debts. A creditor may not claim debts from partner A on the assets of partner B or the entire community. There's a complicated arrangement for that. Here it becomes clear that it may also be necessary during marriage to clarify the different abilities. Again, my question is: is there one without a prenup? Will the situation for creditors and debtors not become even more unclear with this bill? I would also like to get a reaction on this point. The initiators' proposal is similar to the limited community of fruits and income, which was precisely abolished in 2012, because in the 1990s only 0,3% of married people used this limited community of goods. Moreover, that form was a drama for notaries and lawyers when the marriage was dissolved, so I was told. I'm asking the initiators what's different now. I also resent the bill that people who want to marry goods in the entire community now have to go to the notary and therefore have to make costs. I just had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Bergkamp. I think a lot of people who get married need such a general community of goods. 75% are now making use of this. Have the initiators considered a system of choice, in which you can record through the civil status how you marry? This way you can at least marry for free in the general community of goods. I have an amendment on this in preparation. I hope to be able to share that with my colleagues. In any case, that would mean giving real freedom of choice to people. I am also curious whether the initiators have investigated the impact of their bill on the extent to which people will have to go to the notary. It seems to me that this will be necessary much more often. I am also looking at the Minister in this respect. Maybe he'll be able to say something about that or have that investigated. I actually think it would be desirable to get a good picture of that increase in notary use before we vote on this bill. This legislative proposal should not create a major additional burden on citizens. My question is whether the Minister agrees with that point of view. In the light of the expected growth in the number of notary visits, it is also remarkable that the Royal Notarial Professional Organization is opposed to this bill. How do the initiators explain that? What do they think of the arguments put forward by notaries and lawyers that this law unnecessarily places people with administrative burden and rather creates extra uncertainty in the case of divorce. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the problem of cold exclusion. Mr Van Nispen has also drawn attention to this. It can be very unfair if, for example, a woman is excluded from the property of her husband when she has been married for years. Have the initiators considered including this in their own initiative law? If so, why didn't they choose to incorporate that into the final text? Shouldn't it be? I'm rounding up. I'm gonna let you complicate the power positions in your marriage as much as you want. Sometimes it's necessary and you marry on a prenup. What I object to is that as a government we are going to standardize complicated situations. The proposal for an own-initiative act does not provide for the simplicity of the system. I have great reservations about that. I do not see the problem of the general community of goods as standard. I do not see why the alternative of the initiators would be better. For me, it is at least crucial that the general community of goods remains available as a choice variant. In any case, I look forward with great interest to the answers of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	I have a question. The Christian Union comes with an amendment. I would very much like to hear from the Christian Union what that amendment is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	I just tried to explain it to Mrs Bergkamp during an interruption. It's good to explain that again. What I want is real freedom of choice. People need to have the choice, without one option bringing a big bill to the notary and the other option being free. Then you send people very much in a certain direction. That's what's happening now. My proposal is to find each other in real freedom of choice, namely: you can decide in freedom, without any financial incentive, under which conditions you want to marry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	The Christian Union considers it important that there is not a great deal of regulatory pressure, that it is simple and that it should not lead to more ambiguity. Is the Christian Union prepared not to table or withdraw the amendment if the proposers or the minister indicate that the amendment will lead to impossibility, because it is too complex and unclear? I was wondering to what extent the feasibility is an important point for the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	I hope that we will find each other first of all in the principle of freedom of choice. In doing so, I also address Mrs Bergkamp as a liberal. That's what it starts with: that you think freedom of choice is important. Sometimes that may cost a little, but it should not lead to enormous regulatory pressure. Then you're gonna test it. You're gonna make conversations, you're gonna see if a particular option is a good option. And if you do, you're gonna work it out in an amendment and you're gonna discuss it with the field. I would like to put a question to Mrs Bergkamp. Suppose it doesn't result in extra control pressure. Is D66 so open-minded, are the shutters at D66 so open that this option can be considered in all sobriety and reasonableness?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	You are supposed to answer a question and not ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	I answered the question first and then I asked a question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	I figured that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	I've always learned that the fact that you get the same question back is a sign that you asked a good question, so I'm just gonna take this question as a compliment. Suppose the amendment is judged by the proposers as complex and unworkable. Is the Christian Union then prepared not to table that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	Mrs Bergkamp gives the impression that she hopes for this complexity, but I assume that this is not the case. I assume freedom of choice and justice. During an interrupting debate, I said that I find it unfair if the one option that people can choose for has a proper account, while the other option is free. I think that this is unfair and this undermines the importance of freedom of choice. I would very much like to go with as many parties as possible to find an alternative that is not burdensome, that does not result in additional regulatory pressure, that is not complicated, that offers a passable path that does justice to the freedom of choice which Mrs Bergkamp and I consider important and which is just. And justice is a value that we in this house, I hope, like to uphold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators of D66, Party of Labour and VVD for this initiative law. I know from my own experience that an initiative law requires a lot of extra work, on top of the busy agenda that you have as a representative of the people. So I have every respect for the commitment and for the great work. At the heart of the initiative law is that only the community that is built up during marriage is covered by the community of goods. Husbands can decide on terms themselves whether they want to expand the community of goods. The present general community of goods means that all assets and debts will now be together from the two partners. This often leads to bad situations in practice. It's always painful when husbands decide to break up. The reality is that one in three marriages ends in divorce. Such a separation has many financial and legal consequences, and this simply needs to be properly regulated. Only about 25% of future spouses have a marriage agreement drawn up with the notary. In a prenup, you can agree on the extent to which you want to share debts and assets with each other. In more than two thirds of marriages, therefore, the general community of goods is automatically applicable. The PvdA therefore considers it desirable to regulate the legal community of goods properly and to limit their size. However, I would like to go through the legislative proposal, with our considerations and with our questions to the authors on a number of points. In our view, the limited community of goods removes some of the disadvantages of the current overall community of goods. For example, the current main system of the general community of goods leads to a common approach to what was originally private, i.e. one of the spouses. What is not the result of the efforts of both spouses during marital society, premarital property, inheritances and gifts is made common. What the partners have acquired before marriage is not necessarily meant to be of both partners, because it is not the effort of both spouses. Ex-husbands must then prove which goods do and which do not belong to the premarital property. The presumption that a property has fallen into the marital community, Article 94 sixth paragraph of the Civil Code, provides that a property is to be regarded as a Community property if a dispute exists between spouses to whom both belong a good and neither of them can prove his right to such property. It follows that the spouse who claims that there is private property will have to prove this, otherwise it will be regarded as belonging to the community of goods. The applicants state that the proposal does not require the keeping of records. They state, however, that it should be noted that where the spouses do not administer or do not administer enough, the presumption of evidence is activated and thus the premarital property present may have to be included in the community if the proof of the private nature of these goods cannot be properly supplied. The bill would therefore leave room for both spouses who administer it and those who do not or do not. But how does this work in practice according to the initiators? Shouldn't ex-husbands, in order to safeguard their premarital ability, often set up an administration to make the limited community really limited in practice? Currently, inheritances and gifts can be excluded from the overall community of goods. This will take a step towards the notary of the deceased and the giver. As an experiencer and giver in the current system, you must be aware that it does not end up directly in the overall community of goods. The Labour Party considers it desirable that this be settled in advance. If an expert and giver wants to leave or give money to both husbands, it can still do so. The threshold for an expert and giver to leave or give a specific inheritance to one of the spouses is removed by the bill. Moreover, the limited community of goods prevents the relative randomness of inheritances and gifts. An inheritance of the parents of one spouse just before the divorce now falls within the community to be divided and an inheritance of the parents of the other spouse after the divorce is now outside the community to be divided. That's wrong. It is also important that the overall community of goods also includes debts. This can be detrimental to the husband who is not aware of it. Falling into the community of premarital debts implies that with the becoming common of the goods, all these goods, including those of the spouse not debtor, serve as a remedy for the payment of, by the way, all the debts of the spouse. That is the downside of the overall community of goods, which is the reason for many who are sufficiently aware of it to draw up a prenup. An inheritance may also turn out to be a debt to be borne by both partners and shared later, in the divorce, if, for example, the property has to be sold with a residual debt. The bill actively protects people from this downside. However, I would like to know from the initiators whether debts for the conclusion of the marriage entered into in the name of one of the spouses, but entered into for the benefit of both spouses, belong to a limited community and, if so, how. If that is not the case, do the initiators consider it desirable? By far the majority of matrimonial property regimes in other countries involve inheritances and gifts, property, not in the distribution or netting between spouses. The PvdA believes that in an increasingly international society there is a growing need for greater integration with the most common systems. Think of a marriage between spouses from different countries and the non-Dutch spouse who has different expectations for a standard matrimonial property right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	I would have expected Mrs Yücel to be in favour of this bill. I'm going back a little bit in time. In 2008, the PvdA was still on the side of CDA, Christian Union, SGP and also SP, which blocked such a proposal by supporting the Anker amendment. I'm not saying this to talk about mistakes. I have already mentioned that the SP has doubts about the bill, so we may be willing to take that step and possibly not. But I am still not critical of this proposal by Mrs Yücel. What's that all about? Is that moving insight into the PvdA Group, a completely different way of thinking? Or is this proposal really so much different from what was in 2008?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	That is a very fair question from Mr Van Nispen. I have, of course, also been diving into the history of this bill and have looked at what we have seen in the past. I understand from this that the administrative burden, i.e. the burden of proof, was not sufficiently worked out at the time. I agree with that, too, if I read it all. However, in assessing this proposal, I note that this point has been worked out in sufficient detail as far as we are concerned. That gives us confidence in a good execution. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the point that the Netherlands should seek membership with the most common systems. This prevents trouble, for example if the deceased are non-Dutch and have other expectations. Can the initiators explain again why they consider this amendment to be a necessary addition to private international law with regard to matrimonial property law? The proposal for an initiative brings about a major change in the current matrimonial property right. Can the initiators indicate why, despite this major change, they have not included an evaluation clause in the legislative proposal? I'm gonna finish up. My group believes that regardless of the useful adaptation of the standard matrimonial property law envisaged by the proposal, it is always important to point out to future partners the financial and legal consequences of marriage and possible divorce. Partners should be informed of this when they are engaged in an obligation to marry so that they can draw up the desired terms and conditions for the conclusion of the marriage on the law of matrimonial property. How do the initiators view this? My group welcomes the fact that we can take this step. It's a modern bill that fits better with modern times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	Does Mrs Yücel also know the harrowing examples in which one is left behind and the other runs away with everything, for example by cold exclusion or by a period of unmarried cohabitation in which people have rightly failed to take care of something? Those are very poignant things. Would Mrs Yücel be prepared to consider the possibility of applying a fair correction to those most extreme situations? We were at the same hearing. The judges said they could get away with this. They would welcome this. Is Mrs. Yücel prepared to consider this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	I am always prepared to look at proposals that could remove possible complex situations and emergencies in practice. I'm always willing to do that. With the information I have so far and the consideration I make for this initiative law, I am quite satisfied, but I have also asked a number of questions. I think we can get away with this, but I am sure we will also look closely at your proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	That's good to hear. The 2010 report that we asked for as a Chamber at the time contains very interesting points of reference. It doesn't have to matter for the assessment of this bill, because it could complement it. I was gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	Thank you. I assume that the initiators will also address these questions in detail during their term, so that we can also take into account their response in the proposals that you seem to have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	The issue of cold exclusion is about justice. If it turns out to be very unfair, this could be a point that we should look at very carefully. My question is about making freedom of choice possible without having one account fixed for the other and not for the other. Is the PvdA Group prepared to look at this option in full disclosure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	I think the principle of freedom of choice is extremely important. I note that we have had some sort of freedom of choice for a long time now, but a basic system. It costs a lot and you have to take steps to reach a prenup. Now we're turning the basic system around. Also with the functioning of this law there will be that freedom of choice, but with reverse thresholds and with costs for the group that does want to marry in the entire community of goods. My group is well aware of this. To be honest, I also assume that the initiators have looked at a fully balanced choice. That is why I want to listen carefully to the answers of the initiators, because this has often been discussed, but we can live well with the balance laid down in this law and have confidence in it. We welcome the fact that in the absence of a choice there is a basic system on which spouses can fall back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	Mrs Yücel rightly says that there was a threshold for one option, but that it is now being moved and put before the other option. What's right about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	The law in which marriage is the standard in the whole community of goods stems from a time when women were actually sitting alone at home. In that situation, it was very logical and just to marry among the entire community of goods. I am in favour of an equal approach to both men and women, or both men and both women, in legislation in 2016. Therefore, my preference for the basic system of a limited community of goods lies in the fact that both partners are given an equivalent approach. As a result, I find this form fairer and fairer. If we allow this bill to enter into force, it is of course extremely important that people know what the new conditions are. They need to know that it is a limited community of goods, so that they can still make a free choice to do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	Mr. Chairman. To reassure you, it won't be 30 minutes. It's gonna be okay. A marriage concerns two people, yet the marriage agreement is an institution that others like to interfere with. In early 2013, hundreds of thousands of Frenchmen went out on the streets, denying gays and lesbians the right to marry. Pope Francis calls gay marriage a threat to world peace and to humanity. Oscar Wilde thought marriage was mostly a mutual misunderstanding. He said: one must always be in love, therefore one must never marry. Elizabeth Taylor, on the other hand, could not get enough of the marriage and married no less than eight times. The English writer Samuel Johnson found it a triumph of hope over the experience when people dared to remarry. Johnson would have been a Taylor fan, if he hadn't been dead for more than two centuries when Taylor said yes for the eighth time, if I'm not mistaken about someone who worked in construction. No, there are subjects that evoke less strong emotions than marriage. This indicates that today we are dealing with matters that are more than just a contract. An initiative law that affects marriage is thus always a political adventure. Anyone can get married, so everyone has an opinion on it. But marriage is fortunately a house with many rooms, which one can decorate as one pleases. Whether you think marriage is a sacred cottage or not, it's at least a cottage of all of us these days. That's not exactly self-evident. Previously the marriage was reserved only for the elite and until 2001 gays and lesbians were not welcome in the house of marriage. The fact that the institute evolves "marriage" and, depending on the spirit of the time, takes other forms, is a constant and for the VVD a positive line in the history of marriage. We'll continue that line today. In doing so, we add an important new chapter to the history of marriage. We do this by considering whether the way in which we have now shaped the marital standard is still in line with the spirit of the time. That immediately raises the question of what that spirit of time actually is. Now it is difficult with ghosts that they generally want to remain elusive. The spirit of time is no exception. This puts us at risk of perpetuating a spirit that will not be caught. The fact that this is not an imaginary risk is demonstrated by the fact that the legal community under discussion today dates back to 1838. This is how dated the entire community has been and almost as long we talk about this. All this time, the present article of law is catching dust. It is therefore to be commended that the initiators wanted to take over the plumeau so that the marital regime could be eliminated properly. Although Book 1 of the BW is the most adapted code that knows our law, this article has remained untouched since 1838, as if it were a small Gaul village in the midst of the Roman Empire. Let us go back to the year of birth of the legislation we are talking about today: 1838. In that year, marriage created the male authority over the woman. That authority brought with it the demand of obedience and a right of disciplinary action as a sanction. The power of the man over the property of the woman meant, first of all, that he had control and control over her property and that of the community. Secondly, the woman was incompetent to act in court and to conclude agreements. The man had to assist or represent her in process and authorize her to enter into contracts. The woman was no longer a legal subject after the marriage. Before the law, she existed after marriage only as a subject without authority, without autonomy and without freedom. It is against this background that we have to look at today's legislative amendment. The total destiny of that time, the accumulation of all possession and all debt in one possession and one debt fit into a time when there was no or hardly any way back from marriage. The total ties of fate of the past also fit into a time when women could hardly be considered able to take care of themselves other than through inheritance law. How different is the situation happy today? At universities, even a little more than half of the students are women. During the roundtable discussion under this bill, one of the judges present indicated that it is now common for the husband not to have the wife, but to be entitled to partner alimony after a divorce. You do not hear me say that every woman today has a toyboy and that it is time for a man-emancipation policy, but I dare say that since 1838 we have made a big battle in the emancipation of women. Emancipation means caring for yourself and making your own choices. The choice of marriage is also part of this. Just because you make that choice together and that you want to take care of each other doesn't mean that you stop being an individual with your own responsibility. In the eyes of the VVD group, that own responsibility is not at odds, but in addition to the fate connection inherent in marriage. You are responsible in a marriage as in any relationship together to make it work and to take care of each other. Sharing together therefore remains the starting point after the adoption of this legislative proposal. Only, instead of sharing everything together, including residual debts, college debts and tax debts that you probably didn't know about when you said yes, after adopting this bill, the situation becomes that you share what you're building together. Sharing what you're building together is solidarity and modern at the same time. If you'd rather have one more or less of us of destiny, you can. It's up to couples who marry to decide for themselves. However, it is up to the legislator to choose a representative standard that reflects the feelings within the legal community. As far as the VVD is concerned, the current standard fits well with the feelings within the legal community, but with those of 1838. The current regime is therefore too broad and too compelling at the same time. It is too spacious, because also premarital debts I mentioned just a few examples of property and property in the community. It's too compelling, because marriage threatens to become a terrifying strangle contract for some people. Moreover, the current regime is unjust and unfair, because many people, whether or not sitting on a pink cloud at the time of marriage, are not sufficiently aware that they are not only saying yes to their new husband or wife, but also to their student debt, residual debt or tax debt. The conclusion of a marriage is one of the most far-reaching legal acts you can perform. In doing so, the current regime is putting people at a cost, because those who want to leave their homes or other assets only to their own children have to go to the notary for this. That's nice for the notary, because it means extra clients, but it's annoying for anyone who only has to make the hallway on the gravel path of the notary office because of the so-called "cold exclusion." Legislation should not be an unnecessary burden on people. In the rest of Europe, the limited community of goods is often the standard. The fact that the Netherlands is about the last country in the world to renovate this cornerstone of matrimonial property law has the advantage that we know how this renovation works in practice. Only Suriname and South Africa still have the same system as the Netherlands. The good news is that experience in other countries does not give rise to concern about the feasibility of the limited community as a new standard. More empirical evidence is hardly imaginable. Now there are concerns about the administrative burden this bill would entail. No one wants legal uncertainty to arise because of a lack of clarity about what needs to be kept and not kept. I ask the proposers to reflect on this. What are husbands supposed to keep up with and not keep up with? Are dated copies with balances of savings accounts, credits, tax charges and the like sufficient? It seems that this administrative burden is rather dramatized. Thanks to digitisation, a tax charge is easy to recover and easy to store. As I have just pointed out, there are no major problems with this issue in other countries of the world. However, I would like a clear reflection on how long exactly one should keep what in order to prevent the suspicion of evidence from coming into effect. What practical assistance and information should be provided? Can notaries play a role in this, for example via a website? In the case of the most far-reaching legal act, some information would be obvious. I do not want to go so far as to say that a sort of 'genuine honour begins' leaflet should be distributed by default, but at the same time I note that information on the label of the average jar of peanut butter goes beyond the information given to people when a marriage is concluded. I am very curious to see how the proposers look at this point. It has been discussed before today. Perhaps at a later stage the Minister could also reflect on this point. Husbands who do want to create an overall community of goods, as is now the standard, can easily regulate this by determining it by premarital agreement at the start of their marriage, so that this also includes premarital property in the community. Maintaining this freedom of choice has been essential for the VVD in the assessment of this bill. A final point concerns the more technical implications of this law for related articles in, for example, bankruptcy law, inheritance law and tax law. Do the initiators consider it possible that further technical legislative changes will be needed? What about, for example, when future spouses have acquired a mortgage-funded property for marriage, where one has contributed more than the other? What does it all fall into the community? The co-ownership of the property and the mortgage debt, but also the claim of one on the other because of the moreinput? And what if spouses in the whole community are divorced under the existing system and remarry with each other under the functioning of the new law? Which system is applicable? I shall return to the debt case put forward by Mr Van Nispen. That is indeed a difficult case. I would say: it is a gift to the community, because there are three powers. On this point, too, I look forward to the reply of the proposers. I would also like to reflect on Mr Segers' idea that a choice should be made by default. I think that freedom of choice is already embedded in the proposal now before us, because you can go to the notary. It seems to me that there is an intrinsic logic behind going to the notary for such a far-reaching legal act as marriage in the whole community. For example, the notary may check with the people whether they have looked closely at what debts there are. He can guide the people. I find it more logical to choose the mirror image of the current situation: the limited community as a standard model. You just need a standard. For the general community, which is far more far-reaching, the guarantee of the notary can be preserved. This is my primary feeling. However, I very much appreciate the thoughtfulness of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	I would like to ask Mr Van Wijngaarden a question. Isn't it more logical to leave that choice to the people themselves? Does the fact that they have to choose not force them to think through both options?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	This proposal, of course, leaves people that choice. They can go to the notary if they still choose the overall community. I think that is logical, because it puts the notary in place for such a far-reaching legal act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	My second question was whether we should not force people to choose between these two options. Then why is there an account attached to one option and not to the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	I think we should keep the system as such simple when we have a primary system, a standard system. Mr Segers proposes to let that go. He lets go of the idea of using a standard system and wants to introduce a dual system instead. I think this will ultimately complicate the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	Was that also your contribution, Mr Van Wijngaarden?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	Fine. Thank you for that. I would like to move on to the closing of the day, Mr Segers. I see that Mr Van Nispen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	I have mentioned, among other things, the administrative burden and the possibility of legalisation as the disadvantages of this proposal. Mr Van Wijngaarden says that all this is not bad, that it is exaggerated. I want to put him in a situation. It is often the case that in a relationship one is very good at administering and the other less. One keeps track of everything, the receipts of what he finances out of his premarital property, and the other throws everything in a pile. What is the result of that, in Mr Van Wijngaarden's view? Is there a fair situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	As far as I am concerned, this is a point which must be taken into account, for example, in information. People do need to know what they're getting into. The moment you introduce a new system, it's good to make people understand what goes with it. I am very curious how the initiators look at this. From a legal point of view, the answer to Mr Van Nispen's question seems clear to me: it is a little easier for those who administer it, who have kept it up to date for marriage. However, I have also pointed out that, if you really were to have a conflict about this when you broke up, digitalising society would not be very difficult to obtain bank balances or credit from the bank, for example. Let's not make it any more complicated than it is and pretend it's higher math.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	Higher mathematics may not be, but they may be shoeboxes full of receipts being taken to lawyers. I do not think anyone could insist that this system will make it all easier, that it will lead to less complicated situations. The legitimate question to the proposers is, therefore, how much they estimate the administrative burden. However, I do not think that we should pretend that this proposal creates something easier. Does Mr Van Wijngaarden agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	I think it will be easier for people with this system on balance, because it will be more consistent with the feelings of most people in this country and will result in fewer conflicts. I don't think we should run away from that if there are administrative problems. I appreciate the attention that is being paid to this. I did it myself. But scared images of shoe boxes with receipts and so on? I think that any relationship may have problematic situations. It was, it is, and it stays that way. That's also the mysterious thing about relationships. They will not be caught up in legislation, and we should not have that pretence today. I want to be careful not to draw too great conclusions based on fear, but I understand the general point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	Mr. Chairman. My compliments to the authors of this bill. That's always good. I would have thought of Mr Recourt, with 2.072 days in the Chamber you have enough experience to do so. Mr Van Oosten is in the Chamber for 1,246 days. Then you can expect it. But Mrs. Swinkels, truly my compliments. She's in the Chamber for 107 days and ups, an initiative bill. So also thanks to her predecessor, who I think has done something about it. Thanks to the staff, too. During the preparation flashed through my head that it had to be thought of by someone who licks his fingers at the thought of calculating a personal share in the common car. Honestly, I can imagine. When we got married, I didn't have a penny. My wife did, because she just worked. I was in college. She had bought from her own money a Fiat Panda, such a beautiful white one. We went to Italy with that. In our marriage we traded it in pretty quickly for an Alpha 33 1.4 boxer, with air conditioning. That was very modern back then. We were very proud of that. We got 7,000 guilders back for the Panda and we paid 5,000 guilders, in the ratio in which we were married we suddenly both had 50% of the car. So I got lucky about that. I deserved a lot. Under the current regime it would have continued the 7,000 guilders of the Panda in the Alpha. We would have contributed 5,000 guilders together. Half of that would be me, which means I would have 20.8% of the Alpha and my wife would have 79.2%. But we also bought a couch at the same time, some shares and a new kitchen. Couldn't do all of that 7,000 guilder exchange value from the Panda. All kinds of money went with that. Under the current bill, the big question arises as to what is the continuation of Fiat Panda's 7,000 guilders. Are you supposed to assume that that amount has gone into the new car, or is that perhaps part of it going into the stock? Unfortunately, I don't have them anymore. This is a fictional example. What if they were worth 2 million now? In that case, it is relevant to decide later on whether or not some of that money might have ended up in those shares. Then a larger share of that equity capital would go to my wife. You're not gonna get out of there. Of course there are very simple examples to give, for example that someone has a house and that house continues to exist. You can still determine the value of that. Or someone's got an expensive painting. My question to the proposers is what you do now in this kind of complex cases of continuation of assets, exchange of money. How are you supposed to do that? You could say that's the same with the current prenup. That is indeed the case. The big difference, however, is that you now make a conscious choice for that, which often leads to long talk about what is personal property and what is common power. That's never a problem as long as you love each other and stay true to each other, which always comes first for us, but it could be a problem if you get divorced. In fact, it is not even clear in how many cases of the current marriages that have been made under prenuptial terms in the event of divorce there is a division if there was a general community of goods. When you look at the practice, you have to find in a lot of these kinds of things quite arbitrary that you don't get out, that you don't know. The chairman asked me when I came to the speaker's chair how my receipts were put at home. If I ever have to prove anything, I hope that this is not the case in any case, I think I know it fairly well for the past five years. For that it will always be fifty-fifty, no matter what case we end up in. Again, I'm not assuming. I hope not. At least the receipts are gone. That goes for a lot of people, because who does such an administration? I also have a question about the procedure. Only a few years ago, after a very long journey, we had a very extensive discussion with each other. At that time it was discussed in detail which legal regime would be best. Is it so careful to put this back on the agenda so quickly? But let us be honest, even in the debate here in the Chamber, in itself, is that, of course, well, is a fundamental vision of what we are doing, a big point. How do you look at marriage? Do you see it as a bond for life or as a temporary exercise, where you have to watch with fear what part of your ability is personal and what part you have earned in common? The highly appreciated contribution of the colleague of the VVD did shake my romantic image of marriage. If you're going to have to get into the marriage so businesslike, I'd advise you to ask for a second opinion again if that's wise. The basis must be trusting each other in prosperity but also in adversity. The bill suggests that marriage will run aground in advance. We see marriage as a lifelong commitment. Love and suffering are shared. For this reason, the main legal system must also be aimed at this. The majority of the Dutch do the same. Only a limited part considers it necessary to make a prenup. So it is a non-argument to say that the desired social situation is the individualistic, business model. For the sake of clarity, we're not against prenup. My colleagues have also said a lot about it. There shouldn't be that suggestion at all. There are specific cases where it is very wise to do so. I know cases, even in my own circle, I will not mention names, because that does not fit here where the situation is so complex that you can do much better in that way. Fine. But don't make that the basic model for what most marriages are used to: a commitment for life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	Is the SGP not making a caricature of what is being proposed here? Mr Dijkgraaf talks about the 'business model'. The business model is what they have in Switzerland. That's interim settlement, where you have to keep track of everything all the time. Anything you bring in after the wedding stays in proportion to one or the other. That's the business model. This bill actually includes a relatively romantic model, which can also be maintained until marriage has come to a successful conclusion, namely if one of the partners dies. Everything you build together after the marriage on debt and possession, you keep sharing. That is the starting point of this system, isn't it? That's not a business system at all, is it? That's just, as you wish, a romantic system. It's just... it's got no retroactivity anymore. That is actually the only difference from the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	Yeah, but then I'm stuck with the point of continuation of power. There can be an example of a very simple situation, but usually life is a very complex sequence of all kinds of transactions, where money is difficult to follow. If people believe that this model protects them when they find themselves in such a situation in fifteen or twenty years' time and have a clear picture, I recommend that they administer their receipts very well and permanently discuss what belongs to who. No less than that, they draw up an annual profit and loss account, with a statement of income and expenses. At least you'll know what you're up to and you'll have certainty. If you don't, you're gonna buy some fake security here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	It is a pity to see that it is made into a caricature. If you don't, most people won't do it, because they don't feel like it at all, and they're right. Then it's just a community thing. There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	If I'm being very honest, you could also argue that this is just symbolic legislation. Because if you keep up well and can prove it, it's outside the community. No one keeps up well and so, in a case that it comes up, nothing really changes compared to the current situation. Subject to a single exception of two accountants or two accountants who are married to each other, no one has any evidence to justify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	In itself, I understand the SGP's stance. I respect that the ideas and policies of the SGP bring with them a certain view of marriage: it is for life, and perhaps with religious standards. I don't want to go in there. However, does the SGP recognise that it is valuable to prevent fighting divisions and that this basic system can probably take away discussions about what is yours and what is mine earlier in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	As far as the vision of marriage is concerned, can I hope that in 2016 as a Chamber we stand behind our own Civil Code, in which spouses still promise each other faithfully? Just loyal, for better or for worse, until death do us part. That is not a SGP idea, I hope, but that must be the broad starting point in all the discussions we are having. Fortunately, I also hear most of my colleagues say that it's nice to keep people together. I hope the PvdA agrees. I also think that fighting separations should be avoided, but then you should not put down a carrot here that is going to harvest weeds. Because if you get any uncertainty, you get it here because of the evidence you're going to fight extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	Anyone who decides to marry each other will do so for good reasons and with the conviction that they will share happiness and life for a very long time. Of course, everyone has that starting point, but the harsh reality is that a third of the couples separate. We cannot close our eyes to that. My question is therefore once again whether the SGP shares my view that this initiative law leads to a basic system whereby premarital private property, donations and inheritances are regulated much better, and that it will remove a lot of ingredients for a fighting separation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	Also look at what experts think of the practical consequences. They say that this can cause additional problems. Let me give you an example. You inherited $100,000 for your marriage and invested it. During your marriage, you're going to change that investment and cash a part of it, for which you're going to buy a house together, a kitchen remodel and a car. So at the end, if it goes wrong, you have to trace exactly what part of it is financed from. With respect: that's an omelet you're going to tear apart so you get two more eggs. I can't. And so you're gonna fight. The authors do raise an important problem, and I have also indicated this in the case of interruption: faced with unexpected past debt. I'm just calling it "marriage fraud," because that's what I think it is. In fact, it is no different than an unknown debt that arises during the marriage, which unfortunately also occurs. We believe that a targeted solution should be adopted. Then I am not referring to an overall system change that does not address the key issue, because such a change is done for everyone. Would it not be obvious, I would ask the proposers, to do something about the specific escape option that we already have, namely through the route of reasonableness and fairness? It is now very limited in case law. There is a case known of a man who killed a woman or vice versa; I do not know what it is and has benefited from it. That is a very extreme case. You could pull that much wider. You could say: if it turns out that before or at the time of the marriage there was fraud because you withheld a debt, then that does not fall within the community and you hold the person who caused it liable. You don't need this legislation sec for that. Then you should see how you can handle that criminally well. The administrative burden has been mentioned, including by my fellow Members. We have the impression that this proposal leads to fictitious clarity, administrative struts, a gold mine for accountants, notaries and lawyers and a disaster for the country. Indeed, the bill does not require administration. That's a good thing, too. We were just talking about this because there are few people who follow the exact power flows. The burden of proof will therefore always have to be found by searching for receipts. However, they are often lost, sometimes even in a ministry. In many cases, it will be completely unclear which of the spouses has exactly which part of the property. The precise administrative agility of the husband, which Mr Van Nispen also mentioned, will therefore determine whether he or she is reaching the longest conclusion. The accountant who's married to someone who hasn't studied economics or accounting has it a lot easier than someone who's not in such a situation. How often is there equivalence in this respect? Often it's either one or the other. I think it's true in our country that more women keep records than men. So it's not even about gender equality. At least there is a lot of inequality very often. How do the proposers look at that? It is not only undesirable to do this, but often also completely impossible, especially if there is a long marriage, of 25, 50 or 60 years. It's a great fiction. In fact, this bill also recognises that, because the proposers have come up with a clause in case of unknownness. It suggests that partners like two kings rule one country and fearfully monitor their exact personal property. With that kind of individualization, we have nothing. A kingdom divided against itself will perish. Instead of taking the right of the strongest as a standard, we choose sustainability and a common bond in love and suffering. That sounds nice, but it's also very practical. The Royal Notarial Professional Organisation also indicates that in practice there is a lot of argument about the implementation of the prenup. I quote: "(...) putting on paper what belongs to who is, is more difficult than it seems. We see in practice that there is a lot of argument about that. Then why should that become the legal system?" Unfortunately, there are far too many divorces in the Netherlands. Especially when they're fighting divorces, that causes a lot of grief, even for the children, who take that for a long time to come. Let us therefore focus on tackling that problem. It can also lead to very unreasonable situations. Why should you give income from labour to the common wealth and not income from wealth? We have already had a little discussion there in the event of interruption. What about the return on the education received before marriage? The literature on the return of a scientific education shows that this is very high. The net present value of that all your life gives you a return on what I got you there. The training also gives you a student debt. It doesn't count in the community, but the entire return counts in the community. If you follow the idea of the initiators, you should exclude all forms of capital for the community. That's unbelievable. No one's suggesting that either. Mrs Bergkamp, whom I interrupted, also said: that is not the intention; then you are stretching it very far. But why is it for that piece of financial and not for all the other things? It is also painful when there are special situations such as a sick partner or someone who takes great care of the children. That kind of capital is not included either. I'm rounding up. Mr Segers has already said the necessary thing about the choice. I'm very much in favour of that. If you continue with this proposal, shouldn't you give the choice between either an overall community of goods or a limited community? We have an amendment in preparation. I understand that Mr Segers has the same thing, so we will work together on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	I'm responding to what I just heard about caring for a handicapped child. I'm trying to relate that to the initiative bill. Many children are still born within a marriage. I indicated in my own contribution that women in the Netherlands still have a lot of care tasks, such as caring for a disabled child or caring for a disabled child. However, that falls within the community. To be honest, I do not understand the example, because this situation is taking place in the community, where the partner thus shares in the assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	As a SGP, I always give another concrete example, namely that of the woman who works full-time because her partner is sick. I understand that Mrs Bergkamp likes to turn that around, but both occur in this society. It doesn't matter who does what. When it comes to divorce in such a situation, I think it is only fair that the partner who put a lot of time in it and also had less opportunities to make a career share part of the assets that have been built up for it. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	I heard some assumptions in the story, but I won't react to that for a moment. Let us look purely at the situation outlined. We often talk about a period during the marriage, assuming that the example takes place during the marriage. Then it just falls within the community that the woman or the man has had caring tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	Sure...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	We can argue forever about what to take with you in advance and what to take with you during the wedding, but I think that the SGP represents it very black and white, as if the partner doesn't get anything at all if he's taken care of a disabled child. I still think it's important to name it. It's too black and white. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf will at least recognize the nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	But that's exactly the nice thing about the discussion we're having with each other. That nuance is there, because of course there are many different examples in this country. Take the partner who takes care of a disabled child. They have a low income, but he or she did get a big inheritance before the wedding. Then, when it comes to divorce, I think it is logical that both partners share that ability as well. The care of the disabled child continues. There's little income, so there's little alimony. For example, there are dozens of examples to be given. I think you should do justice to as many of those examples as possible. That is one of the reasons why I, together with Mr Segers and Mr Van Nispen, suspect that Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA is also involved, say: if it comes to this law, then it is better to offer a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	No, we are going to listen to Mr Dijkgraaf's closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	I come to my final conclusion. We are going with this bill of a matrimonial property law system, which is relatively simple, which is actually hardly complaints about and which can be understood by everyone, to a system that is unclear, requires red tape and, in the best case, is only symbolic legislation, because the spouses have not kept track of the distribution of their assets and the use of their money. So don't, would be my preliminary conclusion. I say 'for the time being', because, as a Member of Parliament should be, I would naturally like to be convinced by the answers of the authors, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	Besides, that's what keeps it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	I'm not sure you're a gold digger too, if I listen to your marital history a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've always benefited a lot from my wife.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	Well, that's only a matter of time. I would like to thank the initiators and the minister who was here today in his role as an advisor. I thank the participants on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	So much for this first term. We'll talk later. Then we're gonna listen to the initiators.
