ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Friday night I read through RTV Noord that the houses in Groningen are worth a billion less because of the earthquakes. This means quite a bit of trouble for the people there. It scares me. Research by the University of Groningen again shows how much gas extraction affects Groningers in their safety, the viability of their villages and their wallet. The house you've always worked hard for and spared is going to be worth less. I think that is a big problem, because we have all benefited from the extraction of gas in the Netherlands and the burden has been placed very unilaterally with the inhabitants of Groningen. Is the Minister prepared to adapt the existing value reduction scheme? I ask this because research carried out by the University of Groningen shows that the way in which the existing value reduction scheme is developed is very likely to result in too low fees due to the fall in value. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Does the Minister agree with us that the entire decline in value should be compensated for to the people? The University of Groningen concludes that recent research by the CBS, commissioned by the National Coordinator Groningen, has shortcomings in modelling the earthquake impact similar to those of Ortec's investigations and therefore does not provide a good basis for policy. Does the Minister agree with the UG? What's he gonna do with this? I am also thinking of the impact of the claims. We are talking today about people who cannot lose their homes on the pavement. The CDA wants the people in Groningen to have a similar arrangement to the one available to the people in Moerdijk. If you really want to leave, you can go. Such an arrangement is more generous than the regulation of the NAM that we currently know. When is the Minister going to come up with a good arrangement that really takes our citizens seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. There would be a 3% decrease in value. With a value drop of 954 million, this would bring the value of housing to 31.8 billion. In December, we received a CBS report which stated that it was 2.4%. At the end of this month I will receive the next report from the CBS. This research by the University of Groningen is worth studying. It has become a compact report of eight A4's. It won't take that long to study. I don't know who the client is, because that doesn't make any sense. I want to compare the design chosen for this research and the design chosen by the CBS to determine which one I can use best. I tend to keep using CBS's. The CBS is very well able to investigate these things and establish the facts. The CBS has taken a larger number of municipalities, eighteen, instead of the eleven municipalities in the core area. A calculation was then set up to reach an average of €5,000 per house. This is about all the houses in those eighteen municipalities, including the city of Groningen. I don't know if this is really the best way. I will study it and then see what we can do best with this research. To respond to Mrs Mulder's questions, I believe that the existing value reduction regime is a good one. You determine the value of a property at the beginning of the sales process. This does not take account of the earthquake, but of other parts of the country where the earthquakes do not occur. You set the value in advance. After that, the sales process will take place. If the property is sold, you will reimburse the difference between the selling price and the determined value. I think that's a good arrangement. Its execution has come to the end of the tribulation, because a professional case has been brought, the outcome of which is not expected until 2017. Until then, we will see how we can adapt the existing value reduction regime. The National Coordinator Groningen has said that he has an idea for this and that he wants to start with a pilot for 50 homes. In addition to the almost 50 homes that have already been purchased, I think this is a good start to ensure, in conjunction with what we had previously planned, that a good situation arises here. However, it should not come from this. It must come from two other things in Groningen, namely the reduction in gas extraction, which has now been halved, and a reinforcement programme. In Loppersum, that's happening all the time. The aim is to radically strengthen and improve a first phase of 1,650 residential housing units.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that he will present the report of the University of Groningen in addition to the other available reports and that he will also consider how to weigh that up. Of course, the CDA is concerned that we do not fail people and that they do not only have the burden in Groningen when we have all had the pleasure of extracting gas. I thank the Minister for including that report. One of the points the Minister just mentioned is that Ortec's report compares with other areas to measure the impact well. The report of the University of Groningen states on the last page that there will be another report from her hand that will also deal with the comparison of the impact areas. Is the Minister prepared to include that report that is still coming so that we can compare it well? I assume that the Minister's starting point is that the entire value of the houses will be reimbursed if you have to sell your property because for whatever reason you want to go to another place in the country. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	I agree with Mrs Mulder's final point. I think that should be done. It is my ambition to avoid this as much as possible. I do not want Groningen to remain in a downward spiral and I do not want social cohesion in the area to be affected. People live there and have their families, their friends and their associations. If there's a large-scale buy-back scheme out there, you don't know what's gonna happen to the area. The area must return to an upward spiral. We must achieve this by reducing gas extraction and by ensuring an adequate reinforcement programme, together with an increase in value, for which we have already had 38 000 applications for up to €4,000 per home, supplemented by an economic boost of almost 100 million given to the area. In this way, I try to get the area back into an upward spiral and not get stuck in the decline in the value of homes. It's precisely the art of preventing any decline in value. As Mrs Mulder says, if it does occur in the end and people get less on sale than if there had been no earthquakes, then that difference must be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	The University of Groningen also states in its research that there is still a world of houses that are not sold, because it is all so difficult in the area. Is the Minister prepared to include that in his overall analysis? The Minister is now talking about houses that are still being sold, but some houses are not sold at all. The CDA thinks that's a big problem. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Can I also get the Minister's undertaking that he wants to include in his overall analysis that other follow-up research of the University of Groningen, which has been announced in this study, so that we can weigh everything at once? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	Yes, I think it would be wise if interesting research were carried out by the University of Groningen to take that information into account. I'll certainly do the same with that follow-up investigation. Mrs Mulder is right that apartments are not only sold at a lower price, but that it also takes longer and that they are sometimes not sold. The extension of the buying-in scheme is precisely aimed at ensuring that it can also be bought in cases where people want to sell their property, do their best to do so, ask for a reasonable price and still fail to do so. That's what the pilot's aiming for. I think that the differences between how I approach and how Mrs Mulder approaches it are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	I see a number of spokesmen. The questions must be really brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	The debates on Groningen are characterised by a pattern, namely that there are constantly reports from Groningen that it is all a bit worse than we had always thought here in The Hague. We can see that now. There is a loss of value of EUR 1 billion and of a percentage that is more serious than we have been told so far. My question to the Minister is whether it should not be one more time. Can we not just respond generously to the people of Groningen here in The Hague and really help instead of cutting everything down again? The people in Groningen didn't deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	According to the University of Groningen, a total depreciation of EUR 954 million is estimated at EUR 31.8 million in 18 municipalities. We thought, on the basis of CBS information, that it was 2.4%, but the UG says it is 3%. That is a difference of 0.6%; I agree with Mr Vos. However, we are not constantly squeezing. You can halfway through gas extraction, which reduces revenue by EUR 7 billion, apart from the price cuts, as difficult as cutting. I think that's where what's needed is done. Even if 38.000 applications have been submitted to get up to €4,000 per home in increase in value, we cannot talk about nibbling. We have now spent EUR 175 million for the reinforcement. Nor can we regard this as nibbling. I don't feel like squeezing. The people of Groningen have to deal with a very real problem. Their patience has been tested for a long time. My job is to do what is needed there and what is also reasonable to the people in the area who are confronted with something they have not asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	A few weeks ago we debated in this Chamber the extraction of gas in Groningen. The Minister also said back then that there would be a broader buy-back scheme. He repeated that today. I'm happy about that. I conclude from this that we are working hard on this arrangement. Until yesterday, however, I received emails from the north of the country from people who are really stuck. Their house has been on the market for years and they want to sell it, but they just can't. When will there be a solution for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	For poignant cases, we have a separate committee which looks at these cases and then comes up with a solution. In dozens of cases, this has already led to the purchase of a property. We are now looking at whether we can work with an arrangement whereby people who cannot sell their homes, when normally, if the earthquakes had not been there, would have succeeded, by buying up the property in those cases. We're gonna start with a pilot. I believe that in this way, in addition to the arrangement I have already described in my first reply to Mrs Mulder, we are setting up an adequate system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u12	The minister just said that in Groningen what is needed has been done and that not everything and everything is cut. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance sees this differently. We, too, like our colleagues, are getting a world of e-mails. The Minister himself also mentioned the increase in value. It's there because there's been a loss of value from the earthquakes. The Minister has stipulated that this increase in value will stop at a certain point in time. In doing so, he has created a problem himself, because it causes a lot of applications, because people know that the scheme will stop at some point. The administration is apparently not set up to give the people concerned even a confirmation of the receipt of their application. Are all those who have applied for the increase in value at least informed that they are getting money or that their application is still in the pipeline? I'd like to know about the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u13	Months ago, I announced that the increase in value should end at the end of last year. The money allocated under this scheme for a period of five years has been spent over a period of two years. Once the money's spent, I can't go on allocating sums to people. I'm gonna have to see if I can get money for that first. At the moment, that money is not available. I have already said that there are 38 000 applications in total. Most of them have been dealt with and some are still under discussion. That is not my treatment; a separate body has been set up to do so. The most important thing seems to me to be that we are quickly getting a clear picture of whether or not there are financial possibilities for a continuation of the valuation scheme. The question is whether the latter can best be done in the way the Chamber has voted in motion, or whether it will have to be combined with the strengthening of housing. There are arguments for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u14	That the two Chamberwide motions are carried out by the Minister, I trust with the Groningen people. However, I read in the Groningen media that it is not at all clear how these 38,000 applications are processed and to what extent the budget is exhausted. Is the Minister prepared to provide the Chamber with a brief letter explaining the number of applications that are available, when they have been processed and which have been granted? Then at least we have an accurate state of affairs for the House of Representatives. In the media in Groningen the sound sounds as if the Groningers had been humiliated again, because there is again no thought ahead in the administration, which means that they are getting back to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u15	There has indeed been no forward thinking, because the money allocated for five years has been spent in two years. Of course, we can't ignore that. If you do, you're gonna get the problem. Mrs Van Tongeren says that there is a motion from the Chamber and she assumes that it has been carried out. The motion states "spend more money" while the money has not been made available by the Chamber. I don't have 200 million in my back pocket, so it's gonna have to be decided whether or not that money will be available. If the money becomes available, we will have to look at how it can best be used. It is easier to carry out a motion in which the money is delivered than to carry out a motion in which the money is not delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u16	I've spent the last two days pulling through the area. That's always useful. I have been special in areas outside the so-called contours, including villages such as Woldendorp and Termunten. The people there are confused because they have listened to Director Schotman of the NAM, who has said that we need to get rid of these contours. When they call the Centre Securely Living, they often hear: no, you are outside the contours; you are only eligible for so-called C-damage. At the same time, Mr Alders says that more research is needed. What can the Minister offer these people security for once? Do we stop with these contours and is all the damage A-damage? People really don't know where to look anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-2.u17	Can I come back to something Mrs Van Tongeren asked? She asked me for a letter containing factual information on the state of play of the value increase scheme. That letter will get the room. As far as Mr Smaling's question is concerned, whether you are within a certain contour or not, it does not matter at all for the compensation of the damage. If you have damage caused by earthquakes, it will be reimbursed 100%. So that's completely out of the question. These contours are important for us to see where the earthquake problem is most and what we should focus primarily on in dealing with the problems. So that's what we're doing.
