ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Once again, we are alarmed by reports that Turkey is shooting at refugees trying to cross the border from Syria. People flee war violence and they find Turkish bullets. This time comes the message from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. It would be one man, four women and three children. This news isn't on its own. Last month Human Rights Watch confirmed that Turkish border guards are shooting at refugees to prevent them crossing the border. The message from the Syrian Human Rights Observatory fits in that line. As part of the European Union, the Netherlands is jointly responsible for the migration deal concluded with Turkey. Apart from that, we have a moral responsibility to monitor the international legal order. So we cannot remain silent and still while refugees are being shot at. GroenLinks therefore wants the cabinet to have an independent investigation conducted through the European Union. Several parties in the Chamber have asked for this before. A motion by the Christian Union has been adopted calling on the government to ensure that the UNHCR complies with the deal with Turkey. That includes a good investigation. When I asked the Secretary of State for Security and Justice for this, I received the answer that the UNHCR does not work like this. The House should be able to control what is happening in Turkey, now that the Netherlands is indirectly co-responsible for this. Does the Minister share the opinion of GroenLinks that the Chamber should monitor what human rights violations take place in Turkey against refugees? Is it prepared, with or without EU colleagues, to investigate the reports on the shooting of refugees in Turkey, both from the Syrian Human Rights Observatory and from Human Rights Watch? When can the Chamber expect that investigation? I would like to say to the Minister that I am not waiting for answers like we have had in recent weeks, such as 'the deal has been concluded by the European Commission and so the task of monitoring is there' or 'we have asked the Turkish Government and it denies everything'. We are talking about a regime that has more dictatorial behavior every week. I hope that the Minister will show a sense of urgency in order to really find out the truth in Turkey. In recent weeks we have missed that urgency. I'd like to get answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I say to Mrs Voortman that the messages we have heard are very worrying and sad. We have of course gone looking for any confirmation of those messages. At the moment, we have not been able to obtain any hard information on this. Through the European Commission and through international organisations, we are now asking Ankara about these reports. I feel that urgency, too. I would very much like to say to Mrs Voortman that the Netherlands will also contact Ankara directly, not only through the European Union, to talk about these reports and to hear what the Turkish authorities themselves say about them. The Turkish authorities have informed us that the messages are incorrect. Again, I think it would be good to get in touch with them directly. I would therefore very much like to inform the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister states that an attempt has been made to verify the messages. I'd like to hear from her how that happened and where it was done. We have experienced this before in connection with an investigation by Amnesty and Human Rights Watch. Then her fellow Minister Koenders indicated: we asked Turkey and they denied everything. In this case, I don't think that's enough anymore. I would very much like to hear from the Minister that she and EU colleagues are going to conduct an investigation into reports on the shooting of refugees by Turkey. It's the least we can do. Questions to Turkey about the situation are far too little to me. I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister that there will be an investigation into these reports and the previous reports on the shooting of refugees by the Turkish border guard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	As I said, we are constantly talking to organisations to keep an eye on the general situation. I repeat my commitment, which seems to me to be a step forward. We have asked through the European Commission and also through organisations. I will continue to do so, but I will also be very happy to contact the Turkish authorities myself and discuss this with them. Mr Koenders and Mr Dijkhoff have discussed the problems at that border in detail in a recent AO. That's why I won't do it now. Let us say that it is a complex situation and that it is a good thing that the Turkish authorities and UNHCR work well together. The UNHCR has been given an enhanced role. Mrs Voortman referred to the answer given by my colleague Mr Koenders on the role of the UNHCR. It's not up to us to change that role all of a sudden. Again, there is enhanced cooperation. The UNHCR says he'll get the space he needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister nods with understanding and she answers, but the answer is: we go in consultation with Turkey and we all work well together. The point is that Turkey is constantly denying this. We have to find out somehow if this is true. There's a way we're gonna need an answer. So I think it is important for the Minister here to state that she is going to do that investigation. The Netherlands, at least the Dutch government, supports this migration deal with Turkey. The European Union, of which the Netherlands is still President, supports him. Then you can't say: we'll check, we'll work with the UNHCR. There must be an independent investigation to see if these messages are correct. That's just important for everyone involved. I want to hear that from the Minister. We have another debate on this this week. Then it will certainly be discussed. It cannot, however, stand still here saying: we are asking Turkey, and that is what it is. I think that's way too skinny. I want to see more urgency in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	In my view, my first sentence was that, through the European Commission, through NGOs and through international organisations, we should ask Ankara about this incident, as we unfortunately had to do with other regrettable incidents. Once again, I would very much like to say that I am in contact with Ankara on this matter. That's not "a quick question." With this you do such a mission if you want to really fail. I think it is important that we do so and that we gather as much information as possible in those contacts with Ankara, also to hear what they know about the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	For me too, the Minister does not have to ask questions about Ankara, because we know those answers. I would like to ask the Minister to check with the UNHCR whether the noises we are now getting from the Observatory are recognized. Previous sounds were of course from Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber of the UNHCR's observations on the shooting of refugees? If that is the case, then we know from this cabinet that it would find that unacceptable. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	So far, it has been shown that these messages cannot be confirmed by UNHCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then may I ask the Minister what has happened since the 19th? Of course, this news did not reach us until this morning. For example, has Human Rights Watch been contacted? Has there been contact with Amnesty International, for example? Has there been contact with the Syrian groups, with the refugee organisations on the ground or with people providing emergency aid in that region? What has been the outcome of that? If that hasn't happened yet, I'm really wondering if this cabinet wants to know the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	I am sorry, but I have already said twice that we are asking about this incident through the European Commission, through international organisations and through NGOs in Ankara. There's ample consultation. That is quite right, because it is a serious matter. I do not think it is right that this should happen with too little urgency, because it is a serious matter. It needs to be examined. That is what we are doing now, because we are asking Ankara.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	Unfortunately, I have to conclude that there is too little urgency to investigate, because this is not the first incident, it is not the second incident or the third incident. These eight victims are not on their own. We are now at 60 victims, I would like to tell this minister. If the Minister says it's being investigated, I want to ask her: when will we get an independent investigation into these incidents? She can pick the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	I am repeating myself, because this was, of course, rightly discussed in general consultation with Minister Koenders and Secretary of State Dijkhoff. I have the questions that were asked there. The Netherlands has said that it is good if the UNHCR has a role to play. He hasn't been able to confirm the messages so far. Once again, we will continue to talk to them, through the Commission. We'll keep talking to the international NGOs. Of course, I would like to report to the Chamber, including the results of the direct contact we will have with Ankara.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you.
