ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House. I call Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today, as the President said, we are talking about the law aimed at strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions. The law is a response to a number of abuses in education in recent years and should also provide an answer. The experiences with Amarantis and the ROC Leiden have once again put our noses on the facts. Where good education should be the main concern, directors were engaged in real estate projects and financial products. Is it not true that the problems were mainly linked to a lack of focus on the primary responsibility of the educational institution, which is good education? Are these excesses no longer a matter of responsibility, of the inner state and orientation or, if you will, the morality or ethics of the directors? Isn't this law therefore a typical example of rule reflex? Or does the Minister consider the excesses to be a result of deficits in existing legislation? The CDA Group wishes to point out that new laws and regulations are no guarantee that these kinds of excesses will no longer occur. Let's hope, and let's at least set up the courses in such a way that in education management, ethics is not described as an unprofessional element, as Joris Luyendijk claims about the banking world. The bill has been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives, where many amendments have also been tabled and adopted. There were so many that the Minister gave the House of Representatives the opportunity to consider applying a second reading of the bill to the legislative proposal in order to prevent careless legislation from being introduced and subsequently repaired by a novel or separate legislation. The Chamber saw no reason to do so. Can the Minister state how she stands now? The members of the CDA Group are pleased that the proposal for the reporting obligation for each amendment has disappeared. We do not think it would be desirable for an internal supervisor to be obliged to inform the educational inspection even before a reasonable suspicion of maladministration is made. Good supervision is of great importance, but such a reporting obligation does not contribute to the strengthening of administrative power. Society benefits from expert, well-formed people in all kinds of fields: from technology to art, from trade to language, and from sport to science. Developing talents is good for the well-being of people and therefore also for society. Good education is therefore very important. This concerns not only the professional and pedagogical quality of teachers, but also a good organisation, good governance. The law before us today aims to strengthen the power of government. There are some good things in the law. For example, the CDA Group welcomes the fact that participation is given the right to advise on profiles for new directors and that they should be made public in advance. This also applies to the fact that participation is given the right to advise on the appointment and dismissal of directors, that there is regular consultation between supervisory board and participation bodies, and that there should be provision for official and financial support and for training of members of participation. The CDA Group has asked a number of questions. She thanked the government for the answers. These have certainly clarified and removed a number of concerns. For example, the group had questions about the drafting of the law. Is it really going to strengthen the power of government, or is it going to make it more difficult and more bureaucratic? According to the title, the law is about "strengthening administrative power." In effect, however, it seems to be more about maximizing participation. It is a good thing to use the knowledge, experience and skills of students and staff. This is good for the support of the policy and also for the involvement and atmosphere in the organisation. 'About them, but without them', our group no longer considers this time of day. But engaging, thinking and consulting are not the same as participation. It is also a question of whether you can expect students, including in the MBO, to have the right experience and expertise, in order to be able to really judge, for example, the appointment of directors and the main lines of the budget. My CDA colleague in the Lower House said in the debate there: "Students are there to learn something, not to run the tent." MEPs welcome the government's commitment to include the drafting of the relevant articles in the monitoring and evaluation process. Our group also had concerns about the fact that students are given de facto participation in the final terms of the programme through the legislative proposal, now that the training committee has the right to vote on a number of aspects of the Education and Examination Scheme (OER). This means that students participate in the design of the training. Our group does not consider that a desirable situation. Do you want students to be able to get into a situation that they have to choose between the quality of the study, the long term, or fast graduation, the short term? The government has stated that it is not intended that students should take part in the final terms and that the level of education should not be reduced under pressure from the training committee. It has promised that the way in which this aforementioned right of consent is implemented will be taken into account in the monitoring and evaluation of the legislative proposal. We think that is a good thing. Speaking of participation, how does the Minister see the value of greater participation in a declining interest among students in university policy? De Volkskrant headlined last Friday: "Low turnout of university elections is at odds with the call for participation." Even at the UvA, where action has been taken to increase control through the Virgin House occupation, the turnout is sad. Of course, the answer is from student organisations: if we get more powers, there will be more interest. Does the Minister endorse that conclusion? Is it not true that more powers have been conferred on participation in recent years? Is the group chairman of the Student Organisation Groningen right when he says that most people just think it's okay? Then there was the question of possible overlap in consent rights of the faculty council and training committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u3	The point raised by Mrs Martens has also been taken from my heart. There is a tension between the desire to participate in participation and the call for participation. But does she mean to say that this extension of participation can be reduced because there seems to be no need for it? Or would she like to take part in other forms of participation, other forms of participation, other than traditional representation as we know it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u4	First of all, I am curious about the Minister's response. The article in de Volkskrant does, however, raise the question whether this is the right way to increase the involvement of students, if there is no evidence of such interest. However, we would like to wait for the Minister's answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u5	Of course, we are waiting for the Minister's answer, but that is a little too easy. Asking a question is not an unbinding hobby that we practice here. We monitor government policies and legislation. That is, of course, our job. But we also do it from ideas. That is why I am asking the representative of the CDA whether there are any ideas on the direction to be taken. It also matters whether you ask this question from the need to strengthen participation or from the need to weaken participation below, in the sense of: if we do not have to, let us do it less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u6	We are particularly concerned about the effectiveness of participation and what it is intended to do. We also have reservations about this, but whether that means that it should not be so arranged is another matter. Then there was the question of possible overlap in consent rights of the faculty council and training committees. The Group welcomes the explanatory statement that there is no overlap in the consent rights of the two bodies, as well as the commitment that the apparent deletion in Article 10.20 (1) of the WHW will be restored with a subsequent legislative proposal. Members also welcome the clarification of the relationship between internal and external assessment in quality assurance. The group also had questions about the validity of examinations. These should only expire in the case of demonstrably outdated knowledge. They could not lapse if there was a special circumstance in the case of students as described in the law. In the reply, the Government states that it considers that this latter category of students can also age knowledge, insight and skills and that exam results are therefore not sustainable indefinitely. The Government has promised that it will amend the relevant text by means of a letter of amendment to an ongoing legislative proposal and that the proposed amendment will not enter into force pending this. This commitment has also been noted by the group. Members then have a question about the relationship between validity and performance agreements. Even after reading the government's reaction, members cannot escape the impression that the new provisions on the validity of exams may be at odds with the performance agreements, now that exams can only be cancelled if there is evidence of outdated knowledge. Members would like to hear how the Minister can reassure the institutions on this point. Members also have a number of questions concerning entry into force. Can the Minister comment on the intended date of entry into force, or rather the intended dates of entry into force? The list of urgent legislative proposals attached to the agenda today sets out the intended date of entry into force of 1 August 2016. However, the regulations for the coming academic year have just been adopted and the whole procedure on advice and participation has just been started. To adapt this before the recess will be an extremely difficult task. In the reply, the Minister has already indicated that the regular annual adjustment is taken into account when determining the date of entry into force of the various parts of this proposal, for example with regard to regulations. Does this also apply to tuition-free study? Isn't it true that this could only become de facto effective as of 1 September 2017? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The members have noted that the government has undertaken to keep both Chambers of the States General informed of the progress of the professionalisation of directors and supervisors. We ask the Minister whether the same applies to the members of the participation, or whether she is prepared to take them with him. The government considers that this legislative proposal can be regarded as successful as all parties, i.e. governance, internal supervisor and participation body, together on behalf of the educational community, to further improve the quality of education in all its aspects, by dealing with each other openly and transparently, by sharing the necessary information with each other and with the grassroots and by having a good conversation. Winged words in the reply are "putting into position," "reinforce" and "organize contradiction." One would think that the question is central to how to improve the quality of education by strengthening its administrative power, but the bill is, as can be seen in several places in the response statement, mainly aimed at organizing contradiction, setting up checks-and-balances, as well as more and more far-reaching participation for students in particular. "Confidence to achieve optimal decision-making and to improve the expertise of drivers," it says. Finally. What culture does the legislative proposal want to promote, since it is so strongly based on 'against', contradiction, and therefore rather on distrust, rather than on consultation, cooperation and trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mrs Martens says that contradiction is a form that undermines administrative power. You can also take a different position and say that contradiction strengthens the administrative power. How does Mrs Martens view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u8	I read most of the contradiction as an opposite. I ask the Minister how she thinks that contradiction strengthens administrative power. When I read, I experience the contradiction as opposed to and therefore as distrust, also because of the words "conflict to achieve optimum decision-making and to strengthen the expertise of directors'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u9	May I make a translation into this Chamber? We want to improve the quality of legislation through dialogue and contradiction. This is also how I see the role of participation in education: dialogue and dialogue allow better decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u10	I very much agree with that. Dialogue, consultation, consultation and early engagement can lead to better decision-making. That is what I said at the beginning of my speech. It's not just about them, it's happening without them. If you want to drive properly, you have to listen to the people who it's about. We, as a group, do nothing about that, but participation has already been highly developed in education. This proposal goes further and has a different starting point. I'd like a response from the Minister. Let's talk about the rule reflex. The law and the explanation sketch a striking black image of the directors, versus a rosy image of students and teachers. Drivers need to be kept sharp, as if they were neglecting their task. Does the Minister really see it that way? In addition to some clearly failing administrators, is there not a vast majority of competent, passionate and involved administrators in education? Besides the interested, capable, cooperative students and teachers to which the government refers, are there not also study consumers, with disinterest in participation? Read the article in the Volkskrant. There are also teachers with little change mind, aren't there? Does the Minister really think it is appropriate to respond to failing directors with rules that apply to everyone, so that the good ones must suffer with the evil ones? Isn't a targeted approach to the bad guys better suited? We always do the first thing in the Netherlands, including in other sectors, but is the latter no longer appropriate? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u11	I'm listening to the CDA spokesman's speech for a while now. Her speech sounds a bit like this bill is actually a punishment for the directors, as if it were a bad initiative to give more participation to students and students, because they could not, or most of them are not interested. Is my image accurate? Is this what Mrs. Martens thinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u12	No, Mr. Chairman. We have nothing against participation. We can only see that the bill has been written, which is also stated in the explanatory memorandum, in response to the situation in Amarantis and the ROC Leiden. Maybe it was because of the Virginhouse occupation. If you consider that to be the biggest problem, then for us the question is whether this is the most appropriate response. Actually, it's two things. So we are in favour of consultation, we are in favour of participation, and at the beginning of my speech I mentioned a number of examples of which our group is pleased that they are in the legislative proposal, but the question remains whether this is the most appropriate answer to the problems that have arisen and which can now be seen in part in the light of what was in the Volkskrant last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u13	That is an interesting approach, because if this bill were written purely and exclusively in response to those two incidents, then I agree with the CDA spokesman: that would not be good. But hasn't she also heard over the past few months and years that there is a louder call for more participation by students and students? So it's not just about incidents. I refer to the article in the Volkskrant. Maybe I can give you an example. I was a few years ago at a high school of 1,400 students who didn't have a student council. I think that is not a lack of students, but of the leadership of that school, which is unable to find a few among those 1,400 students who want to do so. How does Mrs Martens view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u14	It seems extraordinary to me that a school, certainly of that size, has a student council. That seems to me to be extremely normal and a good thing. After all, you cannot consult with those involved if there is no gremium with which you can consult. I have therefore already pointed out at the beginning of my speech that good consultation is extremely important and that this can only improve the quality of education, the atmosphere and involvement. We are not of "over them, but without them."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u15	Then I'd like to ask the CDA spokesman to embrace this bill. It creates a new culture, in which it is normal that you participate in the participation and in which it is not normal to distance yourself from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u16	I would also like to make a brief comment on this point. The connection is made to a number of problems in education. If there had been no such problems, how would the CDA feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u17	This is one of those like-dan questions. We are talking about this bill here. Theoretical questions with "if" and "what then" are not discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u18	I do not know Mrs Martens as someone who uses rhetorical tricks in the debate, so I am a little disappointed. The intention of my question is, of course, this: if we leave the argument of the problem out of the debate, then what will remain of the consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u19	We have said what we are pleased with, and we have asked a number of questions to the Minister on which we await the answer. So we are in favour of consultation and we are in favour of involvement. However, we wonder whether this legislative proposal is the most appropriate response to the problems outlined as a result. Then we'll make up our minds and see how we're going to vote. I come to my very last paragraph. The bill gives students more rights and the institutions more obligations. The institutions are expected to gain support for their intentions and to involve students and staff in early reflection on the direction of the institution. Members ask whether it is indeed true that good explanation automatically convinces everyone. Did the government have that experience with the effect of good explanation also with regard to the income-dependent care premium and the association agreement with Ukraine? We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal on the administrative power of educational institutions is appreciated at different levels. It can of course be read as a series of technical, time-spirited tightenings of the existing participation practice at the Dutch educational institutions. But it can also be read as a next step in a development that began in the Netherlands in the 1970s, when students successfully claimed a role in the control of educational institutions where they were allowed to stay in great freedom for a few years. I am not the only former student and perhaps not even the only former occupier in this Chamber to remember that period with appropriate melancholy. However, I am probably the only one who has been banned from his room by a next generation of occupiers for six weeks recently. With some good will, that could be seen as a just revelation. But this long history means that the bill also challenges some reflection on the Dutch perspective of participation as a metaphor for the establishment of educational institutions, which all have long historys and have seen many administrative regimes go and come. Governance has never been an individual ambition of these educational institutions. It is not for nothing that different parties in this Chamber are wondering why exactly that understanding has been elevated to the objective of this law. Of course, the government has as its main funder and constitutionally responsible for education to provide an institution that allows institutions to take appropriate control of their important social role. Many interests need to be served, ranging from pupils and their parents to students and their future employers, from teachers and teachers to teachers and professors and from taxpayers to administrators. Governing power That is the ability to achieve progress is what this very last category can be desired in their dealings with all these demanding stakeholders. That also explains the interest in this theme. But that desired power of administration is limited in the rules of decision-making. Where he is now, that is fortunately in many places in education the case that is apparently already possible and the law is superfluous. Where he is now lacking, it will lack more than just rules. Some national relativism is in place here. The large international variety of administrative regimes underlines that the Dutch response is one of many. More than a year ago, my colleague Paul Schnabel and I were allowed to experience that Columbia University, which is ranked eighth in the global Shanghai ranking, also manages to keep its students and staff happy and motivated without any meaningful training committees. Each country sought and found its own answer to the key question, which is: is there an appropriate administrative balance between what is required externally from the educational institution and what is made possible internally? In other words, does the organisation of internal decision-making enable the administration to achieve the externally desired result? The administrative power bill focuses on that internal design. It uses a refinement and tightening up of the Dutch works council tradition, which is so exceptional internationally in its ability not to allow employee involvement to be at the expense of the impact of their employers. It is, above all, a valuable tradition of mutual trust, which creates obstacles on the workers' side which they rarely have to resort to. The limited turnout at works council elections in industry and the very limited offer of candidates on that occasion confirm that image: in good times, the or is a constructive supporter of policies, respected by grassroots and interlocutors, because he can suddenly become a troublesome nuisance in bad times. Is that now a desirable caricature of relations within an educational institution? That's the question. An educational institution should first and foremost want and be able to function as a community of stakeholders. This does not run counter to the need for a management that cuts down, but runs counter to the need for a profit-driven company to concentrate first and foremost on its own continuity, with participation as an important vehicle. Fortunately, the issue of continuity is rarely raised in an educational institution. The risks are never zero, but the 100 oldest institutions in Europe are almost all educational institutions and the oldest of them, Bologna, has been behind them for over 900 years. "Must want," I said, and "must be able to." Both requirements are not always met, and a final board regulation with strong discipline options is also a necessity and not a luxury for an educational community. And yet, when I see the Minister in the reply as a fair answer to an equally valid question explaining that the one participation body has the right to consent to Articles a1, b, c, d, e, g, v, and the other to articles h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t, u and x, so that overlap is not to be feared even though they are both entitled to advise on Articles a and f, I find myself, in addition to admiration for such thorough millimetre work, concerned about the vulnerability of what makes an educational community more than a target organization controlled to millimeter: a community in which everyone with surrender, in mutual trust and without hesitation contributes to the human so unique and socially essential process of knowledge transfer and development, where innovation is not continuity but the challenge and where the role of the pupil is of course a very different from that of the employee. Of course, I would wish for an educational community of this kind a great deal of administrative power, but that is a form of participation which forms and develops part of it at an early stage and which does not only agree or advise at the very last moment. I was surprised by the fact that the Minister did not have the turnout rates in student elections in her reply to D66's question. De Volkskrant also offered an overview on Friday that doesn't feel cheerful. However, I find it more worrying that she could not say anything about the actual relations between participation at the beginning and assessment at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u21	I have a question following Mr Rinnooy Kan's speech, which sounds very nice to me, especially where he talks about commonality in education and sought togetherness. Maybe I'm early with my question. I'd love to hear it. How does Mr Rinnooy judge that the whole bill breathes that there is a search for counter-force?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u22	My honest answer is that you are a little early with your question, Mr Schalk. If you'll give me a moment, I'll respond later, if that's what you want. As I said, I find it worrying that the Minister could not say much about the actual relations in the participation between involvement at the beginning and assessment at the end. That is where I believe the core of the opinion on the functioning of the participation metaphor in education lies. In a good balance between the two there is the possibility of participation for the educational community and there is the room for real administrative power, which is more than the robustness of a government that neither tolerates nor tolerates, but which also relies on more than organized 'counterforce', a concept which is all too common in the reply to my mind, just like the word 'dispute committee'. The desired role of students or pupils within an educational community is not that of permanent opposition, but certainly more than that of casual passing and passive consumers of knowledge. I am not reassured that the desired balance between protest and participation will arise, nor that the real administrative power will benefit from it everywhere. It is precisely who, like me, appreciates participation as an often underestimated achievement for Dutch industry that will recognize my doubts about the suitability of the same metaphor for an educational community facing challenges other than an enterprise. There was once every reason for the revision of Veringa's WUB (University Administrative Reform Act) but in the choice of the classic participatory model as a possible alternative, his successor Ritzen provided the stakeholders within an educational community with unintended sui generis role models. I would like to invite the Minister to respond to this concern. Her bill is certainly not unusable. I prefer to read it as a plea for horizontal accountability, a form that should be seen by the administration of an educational community as a pleasant opportunity and not as an unpleasant burden. Appropriate horizontal policy involvement of stakeholders within and outside the educational institution reflects the particular position of such an institution: on the one hand, rooted in society and, on the other hand, intellectual independence thereof. D66's sympathy for this bill reflects our sympathy for the principles of horizontal representation and accountability. However, does the Minister share my group's view that the increased emphasis on horizontal accountability, which we also consider desirable, should be accompanied by a reduction in emphasis on performance agreements as a vertical accountability instrument? That would be consistent with the model she advocated. I look forward with interest to her answer to this last question. The form of participation I have outlined, which is based on early serious consultation and on mutual trust between management, teachers, other staff and students, pupils and parents, is certainly not inconceivable as a result of this law, but certainly not an automatic consequence. For example, D66 shares the continuing concerns of several parties about the strengthened role of the training committee, in which students can put a heavy stamp on their own learning goals. The least we would like from the Minister is a reassuring explanation of the complex relationship between training committee and faculty council, which carries so much evident tension, and a further underpinning of what her confidence in that student role is based on. In any case, we believe that the broad and rigorous monitoring of the new practice of participation which it has promised in its last reply is essential. Finally, I would ask the Minister to explain again why she has so quickly abandoned her earlier appreciation of the limited duration of exams as an effective tempo incentive for graduation, an important part of the vertical performance agreements. Each educational institution will want to deliver graduates who are aware of the latest state of play in their field, and for each serious field, this state of affairs will differ from that of a few years before. A corresponding duration of exams therefore not only stimulates a reasonable pace of study, but is also in any case in any way justifiable in terms of content. If these differences are large, then the new tentaminating is evidently useful; if the differences are small, the new tentaminating is a little incriminating confirmation that the student knows what he is supposed to know. What is the purpose of allowing a limitation of validity only in the case of demonstrable aging, if that aging is so self-evident and the pressure on study rate is so welcome a side effect? An examination board can always dismiss students from manifest unreasonable obligations now and in the future. It is not clear to D66 what the advantage of this new, rather artificial regulation is. We would appreciate an explanation from the Minister on this point, especially when the institutions are in danger of being made even more difficult to meet their vertical obligations. I've referred to this before. I conclude with the alert, not the first, that in some educational institutions this law will appear to lead to great nervousness as of 1 August. I hope that the Minister will give them an appropriate transitional period and look forward with interest to her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u23	Thank you. Mr Schalk wishes to put another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u24	I would like to come back to my question on how Mr Rinnooy can appreciate the fact that the law breathes that there is a search for counter-force. In his speech, Mr Rinnooy Kan places a great deal of emphasis on the commonality of the participation councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u25	I have tried to make it clear that I think it is quite possible that, within the framework of this law and its predecessor, the desired culture of participation is being created. The practice also points to this. There are very good examples of this, and we should, above all, keep it that way and also promote it. At the same time I wanted to point out, more reflective than in a decision-making vote, that the origin of this law and the culture of the works council and the works council model reflected in it does not seem to me to be the happiest for what an educational community needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u26	Mr Rinnooy Kan spoke about the culture of participation, but it should be about the culture of governance and the power of administration. Here we may see that the two in this bill are very mixed up. It seems as if the bill strengthens the co-determination council more than the power of administration. Or does Mr Rinnooy see otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u27	I have tried to briefly define "governance" with "the ability to make progress for the organization," in this case the educational community. Progress is not only made by a firm government that does not have to listen to anyone, but must also rest on a broad basis before those steps are made in the right direction, which is experienced by everyone as such. In that sense, I believe that participation might even better be called "appropriate involvement of stakeholders', which could make a substantial contribution to administrative power in the best possible sense of the word. I am just not reassured that the background from which this law came into being, the traditions, customs and jargon of the works council as successfully introduced by industry in the Netherlands, is the ideal setting for this discussion concerning the educational community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill on strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions. My group welcomes the fact that the Minister is taking steps to strengthen this power of administration. In order to ensure proportionality, consistency and feasibility, we have asked the government how the various elements of this legislative proposal contribute to this. The government sees administrative power, according to the response, as a combination of different opposing forces that keep each other in balance. In addition to the internal supervisor and the board of directors, participation is an important element. In this sense, the government believes that increased participation can contribute to strengthening administrative power. The members of my group can agree to this. Without friction, no shine. In that sense, contradiction is a good thing. However, our concerns have not been fully addressed by the answer. In particular, we wonder whether, in changing the balance of governance underlying governance, sufficient importance is attached to administrative power based on earned trust. On the one hand, participation is significantly strengthened and extended by a new additional player, the training committee, while on the other hand the professionalisation and expertise of management and supervision are left to the field. It's gonna stay that way. There are the questions that my group has already asked. It is said that we do not see the black image of the drivers. We see more opportunities and challenges. We asked the following question. How should you earn trust in the dark shadow of a veto as a sword of Damocles? Isn't the need for trust reversed here? Is it the driver who needs the trust that the driver controls properly and professionally? Or is it the driver who has to rely on the driver not to resort to his right of veto too quickly? Are we sure that the balance does not shift too much in this direction? The government answers, first of all, that there is no right of veto. I doubt that. In other sectors too, the right of assent is translated as a decisive vote into a right of veto, regardless of whether or not there is a right of appeal. This would, however, lead to a semantic discussion, and that is not what my group is trying to do. The concepts are bound to the context. The essential question for my group is whether it is happy and balanced that, in addition to the co-decision councils, training committees are given the right of assent in the manner described in this bill. What is charming about this is that training committees, as I know them, are involved at the very beginning of the process as opposed to participation councils. This is in line with what Mr Rinnooy Kan said. Both are therefore internally horizontally positioned. We thank the government for the commitment, following our request, to a legislative review which takes into account important issues, specified in the response, including these. However, my group still needs to go into some of the points raised. This concerns first of all the nature of the right of assent. The Minister writes that there is no overlap in consent rights between the faculty council and the training committee on the subjects mentioned in Article 7.13 of the WHW. In response to questions from my group and from the CDA, the Minister makes a commitment that the apparent deletion in Article 10.20 (1) WHW on the rights of consent of the Education Committee and the Faculty Council at the OER, the Education and Examination Scheme, will be restored with a subsequent legislative proposal. I thank the Minister for this commitment. My group has taken good note of the fact that the Minister has indicated that it is not intended for students to take part in the decision on final terms. The Minister can imagine, she writes, that it seems as if the training committees are in agreement with the vocational aspects of the training. The Minister undertakes to monitor and evaluate this separately in the review of the law. Should it lead to undesirable situations, it can adapt them. That's a profit, but it doesn't take away all our worries. The evaluation will take place in 2020-2021. My question is whether the Minister can promise that she will intervene in the event of any pitiful intermediate signals, i.e. rather than in the review of the law? I come to the main points of the budget. The legislative proposal contains a regulation on the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget in secondary vocational education. In the reply, the Minister states that this right of assent is part of the scheme already in force in higher education. The ISO research, the research of the Interurban Student Consultation, entitled "Which main lines" from May 2016, thus last month, shows that in higher education each institution interprets the concept of "main line" in its own way. Of course, that does not have to be undesirable for us as liberals. But there is, as witnessed by that report, a large proportion, 33% of these councils, apparently unclearness and dissatisfaction about this arrangement. The main lines of the budget, we read, are: main lines of the financial area for strategic policy priorities and for investment in real estate. That is indeed an unclear one, because circular, reasoning. The policy areas are defined, but not the main ones. Apparently, the government itself sees room for clarification on this point, as it announces in the reply that in AMvB a more detailed definition of what should be understood as "main lines of the budget'. Can the Minister say anything more about the implementation of this AMvB? Is the government prepared to make a commitment that this AMvB will be placed before this Chamber in due course? Finally, is it prepared to promote dialogue between domes and student associations on this subject and possibly reach further agreements, on what are the main lines or on a minimum level, so as to remove the apparent lack of clarity and dissatisfaction and to draw lessons from it before the introduction into the MBO? I come to the professionalism of directors and supervisors, the internal vertical element, Let us return, or turn as you like, to the administrative power. As participation is strengthened, it seems to the members of my group that, with a view to strengthening the power of administration and the balance between governance and participation, the professionalisation of governance and supervision itself deserves attention and support. This was partly in view of the reason for the legislative proposal, which dealt with the competences of directors. With the publication of the results of parliamentary research into the future of teachership, under the title "The Dream Kingdom," the start was given in 1993 for the professionalisation of the educational professions and institutions in the Netherlands. Now, 23 years later, important steps are being taken to provide a solid institutional basis for the professional quality of the work. Different occupational groups in education, the teacher first, explicate their own quality standards. They thus constitute an explicit professional standard and registration system, as an instrument for ensuring professional competence and maintaining the professional standard. The teacher register and the registers for school leaders in Poland are in full development. As this development progresses, the other professions and actors cannot lag behind, my group believes. Now one could argue that the director and supervisor are not professions, such as, in the new spelling, busmaker or decker. But doesn't that also apply to school leader, for whom this is taken care of? There is now a professional standard for school leaders. If it is not almost obvious that there will be a professional standard for directors, I ask the Minister. I also look at other sectors, such as care and banks. And with the housing corporations, directors have been obliged to continue education since 1 January 2015. Doctors have been for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u29	I am extremely intrigued by the suggestion of a professional standard for drivers. Can Mr Bruijn say something about what he is proposing and what could be included in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u30	That is possible, as long as it does not depart from my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u31	If you pay attention, you will see that the clock is stationary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u32	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u33	Take your chance!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u34	I can best draw the analogy to the professional standard for doctors. We doctors I'm one of my own who stopped it for 30 years. The professional standard has now been introduced. Doctors themselves determine by mutual agreement what and what quality of continuing training they consider to be minimally necessary for their profession. This is by sub-specialism, by the way. The government is responsible for ensuring that the profession does so; that is guaranteed by law. This is defined by the professional standard set by doctors themselves by permanent mutual agreement. Nothing more and nothing less than that. Now that this has been introduced, all doctors in the Netherlands actually derive professional pride from it. Bureaucracy is not there, because it costs, I can tell you my own observation, up to an hour a year to keep track. But more importantly, there is no patient dissatisfied with the fact that the Netherlands is the only country in the world where a patient is sure that doctors keep track of their profession in permanent consultation with each other. Then it's not about ticking lists like before, it's about what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u35	But then your proposal would imply that you see similar opportunities for drivers, while in my opinion the examples you mentioned are mainly examples of craft professionals, which are well defined and well defined. Should I understand now that your idea of a professional standard for drivers would be that drivers would also commit to an annual effort in the field of retraining and further training?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u36	No. The essence of the instrument I am proposing is that the government has done so before, and that the professional group itself determines how much and what further training is taking place. I have heard history teachers say: we set the minimum to zero, because in our profession nothing ever changes. Then what's in all these hundreds of magazines of historical articles? Anyway, that's open to the profession. The only thing society demands is a minimum for its own profession. That could also be zero, which is without prejudice to the fact that the inspection could then ask whether that is reasonable. But that's verse two; that's a dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u37	I look forward with interest to the elaboration of your plans. Drivers of sports associations, community groups and boy scout clubs will do the same to know what is required of them in the future, on penalty of an inspection visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u38	I am glad that you are already extending my plans to other sectors; I was only talking about education. In that respect, we agree. If you are a director or supervisor, the question is indeed whether you should not professionalize yourself. I know regulators myself, I am one of them who, after ten years of supervision, wonder whether they meet that minimum, whether that's reasonable and whether they're having discussions with their peers about it. But if you believe that in your professional group a minimum of zero refresher and further training is reasonable, the only thing this instrument requires is for the professional group to give its opinion. Then that's the standard. At present, the professionalisation of governance and supervision at national level is promoted through the initiative "National Register of Encouraging Supervision." That initiative, I say to Mr Rinnooy Kan, already exists. This is not a register with which school leaders and supervisors themselves regulate their quality, but it is a valuable initiative that points that way with its naming. It is commendable that many directors and supervisors seem to use the knowledge base and development opportunities offered here on a voluntary basis. Where teachers and school leaders have now entered into an obligation to guarantee their own professional quality, directors and supervisors can no longer lag behind, my group believes. Voluntaryity is beautiful, but not good enough, because voluntaryness tolerates stragglers. So it seems obvious that directors and supervisors will also participate in the development towards full-grown and mature professionalism. This is also reflected in the study carried out by the National Platform Occupations in Education in 2009 in response to a number of government advisory questions in this area. How does the government view this study? The Government makes various developments in this regard in the reply. For the members of my group, these developments are encouraging. However, they do not rule out the question of whether professionalisation of directors should not be designed and secured as much as participation in the government's view needs to be further developed and secured. This could include guarantees of peer review and continuing training. It is precisely in view of all the developments that are already taking place in this direction and which the government cites in the reply, including those of the Association of Supervisors in Educational Institutions, that this will practically be a small but important and supportive step and, moreover, a consistent and logical follow-up to the government's register of teachers for continuing training. In the paper on the report, the Minister rightly refers to a changing role of directors, which calls for a permanent investment in professionalisation and expertise. My group fully agrees with that. But does the Minister agree with the members of my group that it is necessary to ensure that this permanent investment also takes place, because those who are left behind from one link can undermine the administrative power of the whole? Is the government prepared to go beyond the commitment that development will be monitored? Is it prepared to give the professionalisation of these directors to the professional group and also to ensure that they are taken care of by setting up a professional register for directors and a register for supervisors, in line with developments that are already taking place, or at least to explore the possibilities for doing so, for example by discussing them with the field and looking at them in relation to what is happening in other sectors? The CDA's appeal to include the members of the participation, if I may interpret that appeal so freely, is an interesting one for my group. Following questions from my group, the Government notes in its reply that it sees no reason for an overall review of the WHW. In order to ensure consistency of policies, the members of my group wonder how this is consistent with the fact that a previous government did have occasion to do so about ten years ago. The design of the Higher Education and Research Act (Whoo) has not been held up because of the WHW's proper functioning on second thought. The draft was retained on the one hand because the Council of State was not convinced that the core idea of the Whoo, reducing bureaucracy and giving more freedom to students in the organisation of education could be realised through the draft law as it looked in 2006 and on the other because of the fall of the Balkenende III cabinet. Does the government agree with the members of my group that since then the regulatory burden in higher education seems to have increased rather than decreased? Moreover, has the WHW not changed more than 130 times since its entry into force and, as the government itself points out, are not there still some major changes in progress? In an opinion of 22 June 2012, the Council of State already expressed fundamental criticism of the loss of coherence in the law due to successive amendments. I quote the Council of State: 'Successful changes have also caused gaps in the order of the articles, which makes the law look like a battlefield of fallen, with some lonely warriors'. How does the government rhyme with this, especially in the light of transitions like those to Lifelong Learning, quality or performance agreements, institution accreditation and professionalisation? We can now see that there is internationalisation and digitisation, with all kinds of challenges in terms of funding, quality control and efficiency. Is it not time for a fundamental reflection on education? Then I come to the validity of exams. In the reply to questions from my group, it has been promised that the legal text will be amended by a letter of amendment to an ongoing legislative proposal. This should make it possible for students who are subject to "special circumstances" to be able to terminate the period of validity of examinations for substantive reasons. According to the note on the report, the government is prepared to include in the explanatory memorandum the consequences of limiting the validity of the exams in general on the regulatory burden. My group thanks the government for these commitments. What does the Minister expect of these changes to affect the regulatory burden? Finally, I would ask the Minister to confirm the commitments made in the written exchange of views I mentioned for the Acts. I thank the Minister once again and look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u39	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group considers accessible and high-quality education to be important to enable all children and young people to develop their talents; education that helps students and students to become competent professionals and stimulates self-development. As far as we are concerned, it is important that people who have completed a study take it for granted not only to take advantage of their talents and opportunities for personal prosperity and happiness, but also to make every effort to contribute to the well-being of all people. We are happy in the Netherlands with an education system that is generally good for it. This was also concluded by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) last week. According to the OECD, the Netherlands is performing well because "we have an education system that combines a high level of decentralisation and autonomy of schools with strong responsibility mechanisms and good information provision." It is good to see that some positive elements are in the OECD's view: school funding with extra support for disadvantaged children, a culture of experimentation and innovation, and certainly as important as a competent professional group of teachers, school leaders and administrators. I really think this is worth a compliment to everyone who is active in education and, of course, to the government, which facilitates this with its policy. At the same time, the OECD clearly shows that there are still challenges in the field of early and early school education, the way in which the selection of pupils takes place, the guidance of starting teachers, the professionalisation of school leaders and the quality and accountability of school boards. The spokesperson of the VVD also pointed out just how important this is. It is good to read that in their response to this report, the Minister and the Secretary of State immediately take up the gauntlet, to indicate what is already happening at points of improvement and, if necessary, opt for extra commitment. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is in line with one of the elements mentioned: the quality of control in education. A good interplay between students or students, teachers and the administration and management of educational institutions is, in my view, essential in order to maintain and strengthen education in the Netherlands. I think that's a nice definition of administrative power. The legislative proposal contains amendments to the education laws on the division of roles between those concerned, in particular in order to balance them better, so that they can all contribute effectively to good, sustained decision-making and thus to the quality of education. The focus of the legislative proposal is on strengthening, where necessary, the counter-force and involvement of pupils and students to reach decisions that can count on broad support. We are also pleased that the bill strengthens and clarifies the input of students and students in the selection of administrators and supervisors of educational institutions. The PvdA Group supports the approach chosen, where administrative power is seen as a combination of different parties in education that balance each other. It will have to lead students and students to experience even more than now that education is not only for them, but also for them. The PvdA Group thanks the government for the comprehensive answers to the questions of this Chamber about the bill. The answers clarify in a large number of points what the interaction between pupils or students, teachers and the management and management of an educational institution should look like. A few questions remain, both on the proposed changes and on their feasibility in everyday practice. According to the PvdA Group, good governance exists when all parties are competent to carry out their tasks and when they see administrative power as something created through trust and connection. The key to success lies in mentality change and therefore in the educational institutions themselves. The amendments proposed were rejected by a number of educational institutions. The proposed changes in the division of roles in decision-making processes are still new for most educational institutions, as can be seen in the written replies. Taking this into account, we wonder on what basis the government's expectation is that no collective additional incentive measures are needed to shape the desired cultural change. As a follow-up, does the Minister still see a role for himself to play in achieving the desired mentality change? If so, how does she intend to fill it out? The note following the report states that the government wants to keep its finger on the pulse, including through the participation monitor and the monitor of the Youth Organisation for Vocational Education (JOB). Can we assume that the Minister is willing to release the resources to actually have these monitors carried out in the coming years? Does it intend to take additional measures if the data collection shows that the desired cultural change is not being sufficiently realised? It is conceivable that in the early years there will certainly be considerable differences in the course of decision-making processes and the nature of the input of different participation bodies in which pupils and students are represented. There will certainly be a role to be played by the involvement of the participation bodies. It has also been noted by previous spokesmen that the turnout in elections to participation bodies is variable but generally limited. This was also apparent from the aforementioned research of the Volkskrant. It's not clear what's causing this. There are differences in statements. One says that this is a sign that education in the Netherlands is already so good and that there is therefore little to improve. The other speaks of consumerism of students and students. Another view is that there is no enthusiasm because students and students do not see in practice that participation can make a difference to topics that are important to them. What, according to the Minister, is the cause of the lack of enthusiasm among pupils and students for participation? Where is the key to success, given its crucial role in the legislative proposal? What role does it see for itself to strengthen the enthusiasm for participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u40	I have a question about the participation that Mrs Nooren thinks should be strengthened and should function as a counter-force. I just asked that in a different context. She says that it is very difficult to get participation in order. That's what we see in that article in the Volkskrant. We want to strengthen governance, and so we're looking for professionalism. Is the co-determination council in this way the right medium to strengthen administrative power?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u41	To strengthen governance, you need different things. This starts with professionalism of directors with an open mind; an open view of society, which, as it were, asks a question to the educational institution, and an open view of students. This calls for directors who are aware of what their social mission is. The strength of this bill is that it is found that in that balance the role of students and students is not well secured or optimal. It is about finding a form to structure participation, to give pupils and students a formal position for that administrative power. This makes it an essential element for me to strengthen administrative power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u42	But in terms of "administrative power," I am thinking more of strengthening governance. Mrs Nooren also points out that it should be particularly good for the drivers. Now we pay a lot of attention to the participation body, but is that the right medium? And is that well-equipped to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u43	I don't see it that way. As Mr Schalk says, governance is important. But by allowing students and students to explicitly talk about education together with teachers, so it is not that they are sitting there alone, the interplay is strengthened. In consumer terms, "the end user"............................................................................................................................................ I'm moving on. With the legislative proposal, the training committees are positioned as formal co-determination bodies. In addition to the Faculty Councils, they are given a right of assent. In some areas, both training committees and faculty councils have advisory rights, as is currently the case, but no part of the Education and Examination Regulations gives both of them the right to consent. The government's answers clearly set out who is to talk about what. There seems to be a need for further clarification on one point, namely the definition of the term'main lines of the budget'. Mr Bruijn has already mentioned this. The Interurban Student Consultation last May identified that the interpretation of this concept varies considerably and leads to a lot of discussion. Can the Minister state what it means by'main lines of the budget' and what elements should the right of assent on the main lines of the budget cover at least? With regard to the administration of an educational institution, the Government has explained the possibility for administrators of educational institutions to submit a dispute to the Disputes Commission if, in their view, a participation body wrongly does not agree to a proposal. My group has a few questions about this, firstly about the quality of the current dispute committees. Are the current dispute committees sufficiently prepared and equipped in terms of composition and quality to deal with the new issues submitted to them on the basis of this bill? Is it the intention of the Disputes Committee to deal with a case in substance or procedural terms? If it happens in substance, on what basis does a dispute settlement committee judge it? If it happens procedurally, how is it prevented that educational institutions will pay more attention to the right steps in involving participation, rather than to the content of the discussion on the quality and content of education? Furthermore, we do not think that a director should be allowed to argue the quality or legitimacy of student representatives or pupil representatives in participation bodies when a case is submitted to a dispute committee. How does the Minister view this? We thank the government for the clarification it has given in the written answers on the concept of 'exposed tests'. The government expects this change to have no effect on the speed with which students study. Can we assume that, in evaluating this bill in 2020/2021, the government will pay attention to the way in which institutions implement the concept of "showably outdated examination', and that it will look at how this article of legislation works in practice for the speed of study? The Government has clarified the balance of interests underlying the validity of examinations in special circumstances in the reply. It is good to know that this Article will only enter into force after a letter of amendment clarifying its validity. Have we understood this article correctly when we say that a student with a disability has the possibility of relying on the validity of exams, but that if he or she wants to pass an exam that is demonstrably outdated, this is possible? Furthermore, the PvdA Group considers it important that the possibility offered by this bill should not lead to the image that the diploma of students using this article is worth less than that of other students. Is the Minister prepared to address this issue in the review of the legislative proposal? I come to my final point. The aim of this bill is to balance the roles of the various parties involved in the management of an educational institution, in order to work on good education. In my group's view, this is in line with the fact that there is a clear and unambiguous division across the whole field of education between the role of the minister of OCW as system manager and of the educational institutions that carry out education. In the written replies, the government addressed and asked by my group about the role of the Minister of Education in the appointment of directors and supervisors in higher education. The Minister states that she sees no reason to change her role in the appointment of supervisors of public universities and academic hospitals. The Minister does not now appoint the supervisors of other universities and colleges, while the actual role they play in achieving good education does not differ from that of public universities. This puzzles my group. In the interests of a clear and unambiguous separation between political and educational organisations, the PvdA Group wonders what would go wrong if the minister no longer had any involvement in the appointment of the Supervisory Board of public universities and academic hospitals. We are looking forward to the Minister's reply on this point. In line with the above, my group has asked a written question about who monitors the quality of the functioning of supervisors of educational institutions. In the note following the report, the government only addressed the appointment of supervisors. We would kindly ask the Minister to take up the issue of monitoring the functioning of supervisors. I come to the conclusion of my contribution. The PvdA Group endorses the government's view that the present changes in the education laws can contribute to the administrative power in education. After all, good education deserves good and balanced governance. It must help students and students to feel that education is theirs and theirs, that they are happy to take lessons and that they are acting as critical people who are eager to learn, and that their own knowledge and insights go hand in hand with personal development. Key factor to make the bill work properly in practice is a cultural change in which all parties take responsibility and commit themselves to making education a bit better every day. In this respect, there is a crucial role for the administration and management of educational institutions, as far as we are concerned, encouraged and facilitated by the Ministry of Education, to bring the practice in line with the ambitions of this bill. We look forward to the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u44	Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, there were actions at the Virgin House, which were occupied by students. It didn't seem like my childhood was resurrected, but for some of us here, I think so. I was very pleased by the fact that students showed that they wanted to have more say in this way. For me, it was a logical response to what happened especially at HBOs and universities. We heard of schools investing in real estate with money that was actually meant for training. We've heard of wrongly awarded diplomas. Those were incidents, in the sense that they were real excrements, I also say to the CDA spokesperson, but at the same time the tendency throughout education is that the power of the directors is very great and that it should be reduced to those most involved in education, namely the teacher, the teacher and the student or student. Increasingly, efficiency thinking has struck. As a result, more and more universities and colleges are paying more attention to financial returns and to the fact that a student passes through the training quickly than to the quality of education. Training sometimes resembles factories where output is the number of graduates, instead of being breeding grounds for knowledge and development. With the loan system, the student has become even more a customer who decreases a product, because an education is paid more and more expensive with a loan that stays around his neck. If education is not good or is not organized on the student, he runs the risk that his studies will be delayed unnecessarily or that he will come home with a worthless diploma. The pressure on the student has increased. The society complains that the student is so little socially involved. I think this youth doesn't have much time to get involved. Failure in study time is no longer an option. That takes time and money and rematches are almost impossible. In the end, it is the question of what return this actually yields. Does society no longer need a student who, in addition to his studies, has the space and time to develop extracurricular activities and thereby develop himself? We have just had the discussion about the fact that this student has no interest at all in democracy or participation, apart from a handful of students at the Maagdenhuis. I think that is almost a logical consequence of the policy that has been pursued. In addition to the lack of time, there is also a lack of opportunities. Only when you can think along with it can you excite people to think with it. Thinking about it and taking part in it is not good enough. That was a reason for the Minister to come to the House of Representatives with a bill. That's what I'm saying, honestly, it's a skinny bill. She did not really want to meet the desire of more influence from teachers, students and students. As the Minister said, steering is one of the directors, let us leave responsibility there. Fortunately, the House of Representatives saw this differently. More participation indeed strengthens administrative power and teachers, students and students know very well what good education means. Contrary to what some people think, the student, the student but also the parent, has a great interest in the quality of the training. I am not so afraid that students, when they have a say in the final goals, are suddenly going to make things very easy. That student is in high school to learn something, to get something with. In fact, if there is insufficient education, it gives boredom and breakdown. Although the number of years on a life is limited, the impact of the study on the rest of life is enormous. The student has every interest in the training, not only short-term interest but also a long-term interest, although he spends only a few years effectively on that training. The House of Representatives submitted no less than 41 amendments and motions. So there was openness about the appointment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u45	Just to avoid a misunderstanding. I did not want to claim that students have no interest in quality education. Of course, but the question is whether students, who still have to go through a learning process, are able to weigh up what the final goal of education should be. It is not for nothing that this is a responsibility of first the teacher and then of the institution itself. As far as I was concerned, I'm mainly talking about that combination. Just when you define quality education as an education that adds knowledge and experience to what is not yet there, I think you ask yourself that question with right and reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u46	I agree with you that it is not something you should leave to students alone. But I think they can certainly know what their term is. I've got kids of my own who're gonna go to college. I notice that they are very busy with what they want to learn, what they want to take with them and what they want to be able to do at the end of their training. That is exactly the question that concerns students. I'm much less gloomy about that. I think that it can be an improvement on the final terms in conjunction and sometimes in contradiction. As I said, the House of Representatives submitted no less than 41 amendments and motions. For example, there was openness about the appointment of directors and the right of advice of the gmr. My group would have preferred the right of assent, but I am pleased that recruiting in back rooms through headhunters will now be a thing of the past. Saves a lot of money. Also very nice is the adoption of an amendment that will ensure that lecturer, student and student will take place in the future in the application committee. Good participation also needs support. This support is particularly important for parents and students. Fortunately, this support is not only extended, but also made more independent of the institution. My group is very pleased with the adoption of the amendment which ensures that exams remain valid when they can pass the test of time. Study points can be saved in this way. Is there anything left to be desired? Oh, yeah. Our group still has wishes. For example, the participation bodies are still watching when there is maladministration by directors and cannot influence the level of remuneration of directors. In addition, participation bodies do not have the right to consent in the case of the appointment of new directors. Nor does the participation body have the right to consent in the event of a major change in housing or the merger of training courses. There is no right of assent of the participation council on the budget of the Council. The participation council is not given the opportunity to issue a binding referendum and directors can still take decisions on real estate projects without the consent of the participation bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u47	I have a question for Mrs Gerkens. If she wanted the right of assent to be appointed, does she realise that students or students should probably have the same right of consent in the event of dismissal or suspension? Is that a desirable situation? This also applies, of course, to teachers, who should then fire their own competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u48	I had almost moved on with my text, because I do realize that. I hear people here saying: should we want to? I think it was motivated by fear. It is assumed that a student, student or almost everyone under the age of 21 would not be able to handle that responsibility wisely. I don't believe that. I think they can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u49	I hope I don't look scared or anxious about this theme. Within such an institution you have relations of authority, the position of the competent authority, teachers and there are also students from over 21 in this country. Do you have to maneuver them in a position to judge the employment contract of those who are over them within the educational situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u50	I'm not afraid of that, apparently you are. It's about consent. It's not like they're gonna introduce it themselves. There's a proposal for consent. I don't have a problem with that. I think people are very capable of talking and thinking about it carefully. That is also what I would say about these proposals. These proposals could really improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u51	I understand that Mrs Gerkens thinks participation is a very good thing. It strengthens administrative power, she says. I share a number of hesitations that have been expressed earlier by myself and by D66. She says: I think it is a good means, but at the same time she says that there are no interests, time and opportunities. How can she see this as a means of promoting when she says at the same time that students do not see time, interest and opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u52	Mrs Martens is confusing my words a little bit. I'll tell her how I see it. On the one hand, we hear that there is too little interest, as de Volkskrant writes. On the other hand, the students stand at the Virgin House to occupy it and scream for more participation. So I think there are people who want to be found anyway. There is a beautiful sentence of Frank Boeijen in a song: you can demonstrate but with your back against the wall. In recent years, participation has been greatly eroded. This means that students' interest falls at a time when they are increasingly being put under pressure to finish their studies within a limited time, knowing that, if they were committed to that direction, they would not achieve much with it. Yeah, I think so. It is also a political responsibility, and fortunately we are taking this legislative proposal a step in the right direction towards more opportunities for real participation and participation. That can motivate and interest students more. I just mentioned that example. I find it a scandal that a school with 1,400 students has no student council and no student association either. So when you're in school, you do something wrong. I believe that teachers and school boards have an obligation to encourage people to take on their responsibilities and to take on that task. After that, those people are sure to be found. The failure to adopt the other proposal gives rise to fear, namely the fear that there will be an obstacle to the running of an educational institution. I also felt that this fear was reflected in the written input of some groups, namely that the administration of an institution could be impossible by law. The premise that by definition only a director knows what is good for an educational institution and that the recipient of education or the teacher could not have a good image of the administration is wrong in my group's view; not only that, it also runs counter to the principles of democracy and education itself. A human being is born with the intrinsic need to learn. To respond to this is to make a human being even more inquisitive. No pupil, nor student wants to spend years in an educational institution without literally getting wiser. They need good education as a matter of priority. The teacher can give that good education and guide the students in their search for what that good education should look like. It is a combination in which the driver should only have a directing role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u53	For clarity. Mrs Gerkens is not convinced that students have no vision and no involvement in an educational institution. It does not comment on the driver. Does she implicitly assume that the driver would?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u54	I respond in my text to what I read back, namely the fear that more participation would not be good for students and teachers and that you should leave the driving with the directors, as the Minister also states. I think that students and teachers can make a good move in this respect. I'm not saying drivers can't. I do think that culture has too much to do with just directors. As a result, undesirable situations have arisen which have led to excesses, Mrs Martens has just mentioned them, such as financial maladministration in colleges and the almost giving away of diplomas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u55	The main reason for this is the existing legislation, according to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u56	Yes, and perhaps in the way in which education is currently flown, in the sense of return. Finally. I regret that this Minister did not come to the Chamber with a more ambitious plan. On balance, due to the treatment in the Lower House, this bill has improved, better than what otherwise had been proposed. We welcome the adoption of a large number of amendments and motions. This has given some substance to the legislative proposal. Taking stock, we think that the legislative proposal is a step in the right direction, even though we are not there yet. I would like to ask the Minister what has prevented her from making more ambitious efforts. We await her answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u57	Mr. Chairman. An educational institution is not a cookie factory, but a learning community. It is not a production facility where knowledge is produced and then packaged in the human brains of students or students. It is an area in which young people are often formed into skilled, free and responsible citizens. That is the starting point for my group's view of education. From this point of view, we assess questions about educational quality and about educational governance. These are not technocratic abstractions to be applied. It is a very specific question of how we organise the framework conditions that contribute to that learning community, and whether teachers and teachers, students and students are encouraged or slowed down to take the best out of themselves and apart. That is an essential part of my group's participation in this. If the school or university is a community of and for the learners, then they must also have a voice at the moments when it is decided how that community works. If education is aimed at forming people's responsibilities, then we must make it possible for them to bear that responsibility in school or in university. It's as simple as that. Those who look at history know that there is a wave movement in terms of governance and participation. There are times of democratisation and there are times of technocratization. Sometimes directors and managers get to say more and sometimes the students and teachers. It also continues to search................................................................................................................................................................ In it, by definition, we are children of our time. As far as we are concerned, it is now a time when we rely on the people who are at the heart: the students and the teachers, the students and the teachers. It is a time when we look critically at directors who, at a great distance from the primary process, make decisions in their inscrutable wisdom that can have anything to do with anything. The examples are unfortunately there with the production figures of their cookie factory and nothing with the learning community that it was about. My group sees a great deal of good in this law for these reasons. The balance sheet is shifted a little more towards participation without it degenerate into anarchist self-government. Some people may feel that way, but we're not really for that. It is a good balance in which, on paper in any case, each can play its part. The director controls, the internal and external supervisors supervise, and the directly involved, including parents in the foundational education, have a say in the key aspects of education. I am sure we will support the law, because otherwise the Minister will be so anxious to support it, even though there are issues that need further development, such as participation in the definition of BSA policy. According to the Minister, this should be properly discussed, but without the right of assent. Please explain to the Minister. So this is positive, although only on paper. Because we are wondering whether this Chamber should look at the feasibility of how that will work in practice. I note in a positive way that there are many good instruments in it and that these instruments are also guaranteed to be available. But at the same time, the greatest vulnerability lies not in the structure, but in the culture. A good driver not only fulfils the legal obligation when it comes to participation and a good supervisor does not only deal with annual obligations. They engage actively in discussions with their staff and students or students about how they can do better at school or at university. Formal participation is, however important, only the final part of the informal participation with which the driver provides support. That is where I think the connection lies in the previous conversation between colleagues Rinnooy Kan and Schalk. Is it conflicting, opposing, or is it community building connection? I think that is what this is about, about informal participation, because that is what you are constantly building on support, commitment and unity. In the end, formal participation is the final part, because it is not about the lady or gentleman in the management seat, but about the learning community. I can also say that from my own experience. I work as head of department at a faculty. That's where we work with 60 employees. None of them is willing at any time to accept my decisions on my authority. If I don't get support, along with them, if I don't get a common vision, nothing will happen, no matter what I decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u58	Maybe the speaker would like to argue a little further along the line he's following. I found it very interesting. Does he think that the informal control he advocates, which I also support and consider essential, is served to the maximum by the form of formal participation chosen here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u59	No, because informal participation cannot be formalized in this way. You can't get them into a formal law. What you arrange is the final piece of formal participation. My argument is that formal participation is the final step. Eventually it will work, but it will turn out to be much less heavy and much less necessary if informal participation is to function properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u60	But does Mr Ganzevoort consider the chosen design, with very detailed consent and advisory rights, to be the best possible route to secure what he wants to achieve and what I hope to achieve?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u61	No, but the law is ahead of us. We are being asked whether it is a step in the right direction. We think so, although it is not necessary on all parts. However, we are no longer amending it, we are looking at the overall package. On this overall package, we say that it is a good thing that there are a number of areas where participation is being strengthened and increased. I am thinking of a number of points of agreement. That's what we're here for. And at the same time we say, "Don't expect all this. What is really needed is a cultural change. I don't even know if this really contributes to a cultural change. This is just the formality. That formal control was the final piece of informal control. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how she can ensure that this open culture can be found in education. This may also be in line with Mr Rinnooy Kan's interruption. However, I am not going to ask that question, because I realize that you cannot arrange this from above and not from here. So I'm asking another question. How can the Minister ensure that we and the Ministry from The Hague do not ask all kinds of questions about schools and institutions, so that people in their own homes will react anxiously and crampedly and get farther away from this open culture? In my opinion, Mrs Gerkens was also talking about this in a way. The Minister will also have to create a culture of trust and open understanding in which institutions are not afraid to be dealt with by mistakes, but are encouraged to develop positively. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction, also to the question of what this means in concrete terms for her own policy. The second question, or paradox, is connected with this. It's been dealt with a number of times. It calls for more participation, for a cultural change in institutions, for farewell to economics, market thinking, return and all that more. In short: there is a demand for a different type of school or university than we have now. The Virgin House discussion is a symbol of that. We also agreed in the introduction of the study advance in this house that students would be given more say. As far as I am concerned, this bill is not just a response to what has gone wrong in many places. It is also in line with the debate we had at the time on how to ensure greater participation. At the same time, the desire to make use of this participation and participation seems limited. The question for us is not only what that is because of. We know that students themselves say they do not have enough time, also to involve their fellow students. There's definitely a bottleneck in there. If we look more broadly, we can see that this does not only play a role in participation here, but at all in society. This also applies, for example, to the involvement in political structures, which is also decreasing. In any case, we must ask ourselves whether the form of participation or participation organized here is the most effective one for the future. Or should we think about and investigate new ways and forms of participation and participation, alongside the traditional and formal ones that are already being organised? I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to examine with all those involved how this new style of participation, in addition to what is now available, and this cultural change in which much more and much more work is being done to involve everyone who belongs to it, can be encouraged. Would she like to support, for example, experimental gardens where we can work not only on involving students in the old form, but also, above all, on setting up new, dialogical climates at universities, colleges and schools in general? This will enable us to shape participation in a modern way. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u62	I listened with interest to Mr Ganzevoort's account. By the way, I am very much in favour of it in many parts of it. I heard him say at some point that supervisors and directors should ideally be in permanent conversation with students, employees, and so on. I think he's happy that in his department the supervisors aren't in permanent discussion with his employees. Moreover, monitoring is a part-time thing. When Mr. Ganzevoort brought up these test gardens, I had to think back to that. How exactly does he see that? Those other forms of participation are interesting, but is such a testing ground not a garden in which directors and employees do indeed run around all day while they are in conversation with employees and students? I would like to have a slightly better idea of the alternative forms of participation that Mr Ganzevoort is referring to in order to be able to judge this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u63	This, too, is not something that only takes place in education, but which actually plays a role in society as a whole. How do you ensure that people's involvement in essential areas takes shape? I don't see anything in front of me that we're just discussing everything all day long. Let's do the things we need to talk about. Let us continue to focus on the content. What Mr Bruijn says about supervisors is right: they have a secondary role. We've had a time when supervisors were very remote. They wanted to know as little of the content as possible, because they wanted to tick off their list. There too, the movement is much more that regulators themselves are more involved in terms of content and directness. I didn't mean to fill out these labs in very detail. In fact, I think that we need to move towards forms that we may not know for some time now. That you are at all times in forms of consultation on policy... I know deans and lectures on board who regularly organise lunch with a dozen students, just because they want to be in constant conversation with the people about who this is about. Does this mean that the students have a say at that time? Yeah, that means they have a say in that moment. However, that happens in a very informal way, because you are a community there together. You can also think of forms of internet consultation, as we keep them in other ways. So there are many ways in which you, for example through brainstorms, try not to close down who is allowed to say yes or no at what point, but much more to ensure that the policy that arises in an institution is the policy of the learning community as a whole, and not just top-down or bottom-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u64	Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, an entrepreneur asked me for advice. His company, started small, had grown to 200 employees. He felt like he didn't know what was going on in the workplace anymore. How could he fix that? I asked if he had a works council. There wasn't one. He said he had a standard reaction when someone from his company asked for an or. Then he jumped up and said, "There's my chair. I'll be back in two weeks." This story emerged to me when I studied the Law strengthening administrative education institutions, because responsibilities for my feelings start to get mixed up when people get in the wrong chair. That's what happened to that entrepreneur. He apparently had no regard for the fact that in participation authority and relations of authority are very important for the proper functioning. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats very strongly sees the relationship of authority in a broader philosophical framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u65	I can't help it. The analogy immediately raises a question. Mr Schalk talks about an entrepreneur who owns a company. Does he think a driver has a school as property?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u66	No, I don't think a driver has a school. The analogy does not go far enough in this respect. I am concerned with the point that the entrepreneur has messed up two roles. He was confusing control and participation. As soon as someone asked for a works council, which also creates participation, he got cranky. He'd say, "Don't mind my business, or sit in my chair and try for yourself." That is not a good way to implement co-determination. That's what I wanted to argue. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats very strongly sees the relationship of authority in a broader philosophical framework. In it God has all authority, and He holds people with authority. In this context, there are several powers of authority to be distinguished. For example, there is the authority of the government versus the subjects. Another circle of authority is that of employment relations between employer and employee, or between competent authority and staff of a school. Those relations of authority must be handled very carefully, especially as a government which, through its legislative function, exercises authority over the relations of authority within education. In this law, the division of roles between the supervisory board, the board of directors and the co-determination council is mixed up. And why? Well, this is mainly done in response to incidents where administrative errors have indeed been made. Controls are unsinged from reality. There are examples left of cuts in education and content, and deployment on buildings and outfit. They are incidents that are absolutely indicative of an unhealthy structure and culture. If something's unhealthy or sick, it's gonna take medicine. The medicine is very simple: strengthening administrative power. However, this medicine needs to be administered in the right place, in particular to strengthen governance, with better frameworks, proper relationships between supervision and governance and promotion of professionalism. In short, this governance must be in order. The structure has been established over the years, but the governance culture needs to grow. This requires time and reinforcement, but this reinforcement must be directed towards governance and supervision. However, this bill gives the medicine to my taste not to the quacking governance, but to the healthy mr. But the mr's not sick, you might say. Where a pill can be good for the sick, it can turn out to be a poison pill for the healthy. That is a risk you run with this law, because it positions the participation council as a counter-force to the management and supervision. I just asked a few questions about that. That's weird. I certainly do not want to disqualify any participation council, but now it is being maneuvered into a position for which it is not optimally equipped. Everyone who has kids at school knows how it works. At some point, parents get the request from a school whether they know candidates for the mr, or whether they want to put themselves up as candidates. The same applies to staff and students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u67	I wonder how else you'd see it. Let me give you an example from practice. An older card several times in the participation council that the bullying policy of a school is insufficient, but is not heard for it. This parent then goes to the committee, which agrees with the person concerned. The school board then responds with the announcement that the committee was wrong. In what way do you think you should deal with that sick administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u68	That is indeed a very interesting question. At a time when it is playing in this way, there seems to be no question of the chemistry that I have heard many people refer to here in this Chamber, namely that there should be participation and that school administrators should speak with all kinds of actors in the school. Apparently, that's deeply wrong in your example. I wonder if you can solve that by giving participation, for example on bullying policy, to the participation council. Something's going on with the culture. Does it then help that you give extra powers to a gremium, in this case the co-determination council? Or should there be one way or another within the governance framework, because that is where things are going wrong, something is being strengthened and improved within governance, mt and supervision? Shouldn't you bet on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u69	This is something the SGP spokesperson has advocated before. My question to him is: how do you do that? In my example, it's about something that's going on inside the school. The parent concerned has no power of perseverance within the parent body of the participation council. By definition, there is a school where children are bullied. After all, that's bad for those students. In what way would you say: could we teach the administration that governance should be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u70	I think the route should be searched inside a school. When the bullying policy comes up, someone inside a school is responsible for that. For example, that could be a manager or the driver himself. If it doesn't respond, there's the route to the supervisor. He will have to intervene with the driver, because he does have perseverance. You shouldn't ask a mr to push through without there possibly being a professional or without there being the power of communication. We may differ as to whether it should be there. The supervisory authority must intervene if the director fails to comply with what is put forward by the supervisory board. I certainly wouldn't think it was necessary for this to be played through the mr. It should actually be discussed directly between a parent and the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u71	Even the complaint committee concluded in the example I mentioned that there was a problem going on, but the school is still hearing deaf. You may think 'we can strengthen governance', but what matters is to break a certain culture of one-sidedness, in the vein of 'we are right'. I do not see the SGP spokesman's proposal that this is going to be broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u72	I hear you now arguing that the board did not respond and then neither did the supervisor. Then the way to the inspection is open. But this does not have to be done via the route of the participation council, because a parent can do so directly. What this legislative proposal tries to do is to give the participation body a role that is heavier than that of the administrative power. I would very much like to focus that power of administration on governance and supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u73	My group has also asked questions about the involvement of the training committee in participation. The training committee in higher education is much more involved than the mr at the start of the process. It is an advisory committee in the field of curricula. The training committee evaluates and evolves the curricula and is therefore fully involved in the course at the beginning. Mr Rinnooy Kan has already referred to this: being involved at the beginning of the journey is the most beautiful. In that sense, you could say that it is at least a step in the right direction that not only a Mr................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Doesn't Mr. Schalk think that's more beautiful than just keeping the mr up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u74	In any case, I must now make a plea to the training committee. Of course, it is wonderful that people are positioned from the very beginning in a training committee in order to think explicitly about the curriculum and how certain elements will be included in the training. However, that training committee too should not be positioned as a kind of counter-force, but much more as a participation body. That's why I like the word participation. You can think about it, talk along and discuss it. It's not an institution that has to move with it. You can argue with me, but I've looked at the bill mostly from the idea of counter-force. And I don't like that. You may have noticed that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u75	I am glad that you are enthusiastic about participation in itself, because that is about co-determination. Control is about more than just talking along. You're gonna have control, too. I think we can all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u76	Mrs Gerkens said that the legislative proposal had been improved by the amendments. However, I believe that in the original legislative proposal participation was better than in the proposal that is now before us. In fact, much more the word "mede" has fallen away. The proposal is much more focused on control and counter-force. Actually, that's where I'm at. So I was not very happy with the 41 amendments, some of which were good, such as the reporting obligation that was taken out. That was another good amendment, but I had more objections to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u77	I have just said that I absolutely do not want to disqualify any participation council, but now people are being maneuvered into a position that is not optimally equipped. Anyone who has children at school knows that parents will at some point be asked to provide candidates or to present themselves as candidates. The same applies to staff and students. Parents very often choose someone they know and staff choose a teacher who casts himself, at least if there are more candidates than vacancies. If not, the candidates shall be deemed to have been elected. At students the turnout is sad, that's how we read in the Volkskrant last week. Not even three out of ten students voted. It's like a referendum! In that same article I read that student groups in Tilburg had used their right of initiative to place microwaves on campus. Quote of a student: "This is how students see what participation serves and that we matter." Of course I don't want to ridicule, but I had to smile when I read that. Once again, I will be the last to trivialize the work of participation councils. I do not; I want to place them in their own power rather than as a counter-force. In that context, I have a number of questions for the Minister. Should a co-determination council which has to do with frequent changes in membership, and for which the nomination should at least be regarded as low-threshold, constitute a serious counter-force? How does the Minister view this? There's one more thing. If the participation council is placed as a counter-force, there will also be consequences if things go wrong. Then there is a scapegoat, because the co-determination council is guilty or also guilty. The co-determination council could rightly be blamed for not using its role as a counter-force properly. Does the Minister agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, or does it see escape clauses before the Co-decision Council, so that ultimately one cannot be held responsible? I specifically ask this because the Minister in the Lower House himself referred to questions from the field about the liability of the co-determination council if it has far-reaching powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u78	I have read the legislative proposal in a different way, in the sense that the director has the responsibility to manage the educational institution, and that the right of advice and consent is mainly intended to allow the perspective of pupils, parents and teachers to be taken into account in the decision-making process. Mr Schalk is now continuing a bridge by saying that, at the time you have given an opinion or consent, you also have the administrative responsibility. I have the impression that Mr Schalk has read a different bill than I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u79	I had the impression that we've both read the same bill in the last few weeks. I may be very excited, but I would like to avoid that the very body that has been given wings in recent years, and which has been properly co-determination, is now in a position that should not end up in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u80	Can Mr Schalk indicate where he reads that in the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u81	I will come up with an example that I think goes wrong there. So I try to include that in my speech. I have already made it clear that I am concerned about the counter-forces attributed to the participation bodies. Think, for example, of the right of assent in the MBO on the main lines of the budget. When the budget is under discussion, there is a great deal to be discussed. I can see that in this house, but that is also the case in a school of course. The position of the directors is therefore not to be enviable: they are trapped between the supervisory board and the participation council. And if the participation council does not agree, the budget will be suspended for three months. This is an example that I think is: is this creating additional administrative power? Does the Minister agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that a government that is cut off in the budget is no longer capable of achieving success and that this does not strengthen the power of administration, but rather paralyzes it or at least weakens it? In the House of Representatives, the Minister indicated that agreement on the main lines of the budget was not included in the budget because she saw a clear distinction between foundational education and secondary and higher education. Could the Minister say what differences she means? And how are we supposed to indicate that from 9 May to 6 June an Internet consultation was held on 'the power of assent to participate in basic education in general budget'? Another major issue is the appointment of directors. The Minister has repeatedly warned in the Lower House of the wrong use of the co-determination council in the field of appointments. This, moreover, is very much in line with the SGP thinking on relations of authority. The Minister was right to point out the stability of roles: the Supervisory Board is the party responsible for the appointment, as well as for the suspension and dismissal of the Executive Board. Does the Minister agree with the SGP Group that the final responsibility for appointment and dismissal, i.e. the employment status of directors, can and should lie in one place in the organisation? The legislative process has said several times that what is laid down in the law must be seen as the minimum. This means that further powers can be agreed at institutional level. Does the Minister consider it acceptable that the powers of the co-decision council in this area can be further extended at institutional level? And if not, how is she going to prevent that? There are also schools that have forms other than just a supervisory board and a paid board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u82	I would like to put a question on the two points that Mr Schalk has just mentioned: the appointments and the budget. I can well imagine that he says: strengthening the power of government or the ability to carry things through if participation can get in the way. On the other hand, if you as a director or board present a budget and have a nomination that raises so much resistance within your learning community that you do not get consent from your participation, then you have a problem? Then you won't solve that by saying, "Don't take co-determination"? Then you solve that by reflecting on whether this was the right decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u83	That's right. Many colleagues have already said that there must be a normal and good culture, in which participation is properly taken up by the administration that is working on it. Take the subject of the budget. I think it's too crazy for words that if a council has major objections to a particular route, the driver says: I'm just gonna keep going. In other words, I think the driver should take that up. What I do not agree with, however, is that the co-decision council has the opportunity to block the budget. There's my pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u84	But does Mr Schalk see for himself that a participation council, which is also responsible for that learning community as a whole, is going to be a bit of a nuisance and says: then we will not do that budget. Surely they will only pull the emergency brake if they are firmly convinced that there are big chunks? In this sense, the co-determination council is not the opponent, but rather the supporter to make good decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u85	Exactly, and I always try to argue that: look for a participation council that does not function as a counter-force, but as a co-speaker. Maybe we just don't understand each other's language in this area. My idea isn't: participation council, stay out of it and keep your mouth shut about it. No, my argument is that you have to make sure they're in their power, but they shouldn't be maneuvered into a position that puts them in some sort of "bump ratio" with their driver. This will probably only lead to less administrative power and more administrative paralysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u86	I note that Mr Schalk says on this point that they are allowed to talk, but above all they should not pull the emergency brake. On the other hand, I rely more on the power of participation as part of the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u87	I think you're right about that. A participation council has a lot of possibilities to pull the emergency brake, but that emergency brake should not cripple the administrative power, I think. You have other instruments for that, as I discussed with Mrs Gerkens. There are also schools that have different forms than just a supervisory board and a paid board of directors. I am thinking of smaller schools, especially in primary education. There, a director and a board with administrative and supervisory tasks are working very regularly. Such a board is unpaid; it is elected by the members of the association, i.e. by the general assembly of members. It would be strange if a negative opinion were delivered after a statutory election by the co-determination council. Can the Minister confirm that the right of advice with regard to the appointment and dismissal of directors is not about those voluntary board members of an association, but only about paid directors? Mr President, I shall conclude. There must be a clear line between control and participation. I come back to that entrepreneur who offered the seat of control to those who asked for participation. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats feels that this law puts the participation body in the wrong chair. I look forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u88	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is to appoint good administrators in education, good quality administrators. Because the appointment procedure would not be sufficiently open and transparent at present, appointments may now be made on the basis of criteria other than mere expertise and suitability. There may be appointments on the basis of the old boys network mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. In addition, the explanatory memorandum states that there would be insufficient recognition of diversity in the case of appointments. The solution for breaking the old boys network, at least the legislative proposal, is, among other things, that the recruitment and selection of directors should be based on pre-publicised profiles, which makes it clear to third parties whether those appointments have actually been made on the basis of expertise. First of all... On the basis of what criteria do appointments take place in cases where expertise and fitness have indeed not played a role? That happens on the basis of the old boys network, but what does that mean? Perhaps the directors to be appointed should not have any sense of finance, accounting and the like, so that they can make one big financial mess at the institution? Do such criteria perhaps apply? What can we think about? What actually binds those who are part of that old boys network? Is it the boys who put the jobs together, those GroenLinksige boys with their aversion to so-called economics? Is it the educators who think like this: "Well, we just do and what it costs, we'll see later"? I'd like a response. Second. What is meant by "insufficient regard for diversity"? Is that supposed to mean that school boards are all one pot wet right now? That they often suffer from political correctness, that they often like left-wing multicultural hugs and wish to pass that on to pupils and students? If so, then it is a good idea to change that. Or is another form of diversity perhaps meant? Just a practical example of left-wing, failing school board. Public elementary school De Wiekslag in Amersfoort is a school that calls itself world school. Well, apparently the whole world is welcome there. Of course, that sounds nice and nice, except for mothers who love freedom. What was the case there? Less than a week ago, it is a rather topical example.It was known that a mother, originally from Tunisia, married to a Dutchman, was fully integrated, attacked on the school square by a Somali woman and was called "to quote," chairman; I stress that they are not my words "dirty disbelieving whore with your whore miniskirt." Anyway, of course, we are talking about totally Islam-compliant indulgences. Then there was a scuffle. And then, what happened? What did the school board do? Has it perhaps addressed the Somali woman to her behaviour and pointed out the Dutch standards, values, traditions, freedoms? No, of course not! The failing school board is concerned about its own reputation and is trying to cover up the issue. The accused and attacked woman is advised not to press charges, in order to keep the peace. In addition, she received a letter from the school board stating that she had committed offences and that she had harmed the school's reputation. In a threatening tone, women are encouraged to avoid such confrontations and thus behave like a dhimmi.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u89	We know Mr Kops' obsession, so I will not go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u90	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u91	But I am curious to see where the relationship lies with administrative power, with participation and so on. As soon as Mr Kops talks about this subject again, my attention will be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u92	That's what I was about to tell you. I can also imagine that Mr Ganzevoort is making this interruption. On behalf of the PVV Group, I am trying to raise problems that exist in educational countries, but which are not appointed by any other party here. So I can imagine that Mr Ganzevoort is doing that interruption, but well: this is a failing school board that is doing everything possible to sweep Islam-related problems under the carpet. Does the Minister share the view that the directors concerned have not been appointed on the basis of the criterion of expertise? Is the present bill likely to do something about these situations as well? At least it was about time. Will the profiles to be published in advance for drivers also be considered as a requirement: "no dhimmi behavior"? I'd like a response. Up to the highest level, the education sector is politicised. There are leaders at the helm who are not concerned about providing good education, but about spreading their own political message, not rarely disguised as educational. Again a practical example especially for Mr Ganzevoort. That's always nice. A few years ago, the then Rector Magnificus Kortmann of Radboud University stated that the current summit failed to offer an alternative to populist parties. Who's attracted? He said that more than ever, the Netherlands needs a new university elite, which takes the Netherlands at hand just as in the past to solve problems, in order to put a stop to the populism of Geert Wilders and the uncertainty that it raises. According to Kortman, it is the task of Radboud University to arm the students, the upper layer of later, for the social debate against the populists. That's a lot of words, but given the polls, it's not gonna work. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, here's the science education. Does the Minister share the view that education is politicised to the highest level and that this is a bad thing? Is the bill going to do something about that, too? Will the pre-publicised profiles for directors also be required: "no politics"? You see what I am trying to say here: in terms of maladministration in education, it is not only financial abuses, which are, of course, serious enough. The problems in the educational sector are very specific: financial conditions and political correctness are part of a larger, overarching mentality problem or a cultural problem. It is naive to think that pre-publicised appointment profiles and a little more participation will solve that problem. That's just not gonna happen. Education has no lack of participation. Education has a lack of mentality. It lacks modest, serviceable directors, who are engaged in education and not politics. There's a lack of that. How do people and drivers become servants and modest? They will not be if they can make a huge financial mess of it and then get away with it. They become that when they can be jointly and severally held accountable to directors, supervisors and supervisors. This has already been discussed in the House of Representatives. The PVV Group has argued for this on several occasions. Corporate liability for demonstrable financial and administrative failure will lead to reflection, caution and modesty. That will eventually counter maladministration, as opposed to a feelgood bill as it is here. In response to this, can the Minister say again why her bill is not a wash-up and above all not a wipe for bleeding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u93	Mr. Chairman. Who could be opposed to strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions? With the title of this bill, we'll be fine. In my group's view, this power of administration should aim to ensure that education is of good quality, that pupils and students flourish and that teachers can concentrate on their most important work: passing on their expertise and the formation of their pupils. In recent years, we have seen incidents where the level of government was clearly separated from this core of education. Buildings and prestige seemed more important than good education. It is therefore not wrong to continue to work on strengthening administrative power and horizontal accountability to parents, pupils and, above all, teachers. At the same time, it must be done from a clear perspective. The school or institution itself is primarily concerned with the education offered and the way in which it is designed. In the Netherlands we know the rich tradition that institutions can shape this from their own identity and that a school remains of the parents and is not a state institution. This leads to good results, as witnessed by the latest OECD report. It is precisely for this reason that reading in the legal history, frankly, brought feelings of relief beyond the observation that the Bruins/Rog amendment (Doc. 10), which removes the obligation for the internal supervisor to report to the educational inspection, has been adopted by the House of Representatives. The mixing of rollers and too soon entering the inspection, which does not yet have the responsibility, would undermine the good tradition of the Netherlands. It would also cover up the legal possibilities that the inspection already has. That is what the Council of State rightly pointed out. The directors announced an evaluation for the whole of the bill in response to the VVD's question. I would ask them to include this aspect too. To what extent does the inspection now use the existing legal instruments? The government underlines in this proposal that checks-and-balances are needed to promote educational quality. It is precisely for this reason that participation is strengthened where necessary. I would like to point out that the desired conversation between management, teachers, students or parents is first and foremost a question of a healthy educational culture. That doesn't come from rules or legal additions. In many schools and in many institutions this is already happening daily and for culture this bill will be of limited importance, at most an increase in the regulatory burden. At the same time, there is nothing against, for example, making the function profile of directors public. This applies, in my group's view, to most of the amendments announced. We do not expect them to contribute much, but we also have no insurmountable objections to it. Previous speakers have already said a great deal. This requires some modesty, both in speaking time and in the number of points I shall make. I have two further comments to make. I ask the Minister to explain what she means by that. First of all, there is the difference in size between different institutions and schools. However, the legislative proposal works with one regime, for example with regard to directors' appointments. There's a big difference between drivers doing their job voluntarily, for a small institution, and a driver of a large institution that's about millions. I imagine you'll show a little more customization. That's always the power of the Ministry. I hope that the Minister will go into this in more detail than she did in the written reply to my group. Then I have another theme: the student who does management work. I have not heard previous speakers about this either. The Duisenberg amendment c.s. (Part No 54) ensures that full-time drivers can remain registered with the educational institutions without paying tuition fees, provided that they do not attend education. That sounds sympathetic and logical. But in this way it is too rigid a study leave. Talentful student directors who wish to take part in a single course are not at all eligible for this exemption. The consideration is then quickly made not to study for a year. 'Cause all that tuition paying for a single course... People can feel it. Student associations and administrative work that benefits the institution are sometimes only part-time. These functions are not taken into account in the legislative proposal as a whole. From directors who love ambitious and talented students, I would have expected more encouraging and fair policies. I'd like to receive a response. I hope that the Minister will see opportunities to provide tailor-made work in this area that is conducive to both study and administrative work. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u94	Does one of the Members still wish to speak on this bill in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-10.u95	I shall suspend the sitting for a moment in anticipation of the spokesmen for the next item on the agenda and the regular President.
