ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Following a recent meeting we had, I would like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all those who risk their lives for Dutch missions should be able to count on the support of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is important that the Netherlands should always be able to deal with requests for information from interpreters who have worked for Dutch missions;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 17 (1) of the Dublin Regulation, each Member State may decide to examine an application for international protection itself;]] [[calls on the Government, in policy, to establish that interpreters who have worked for Dutch missions are covered by Article 17 (1) of the Dublin Regulation and to use it in the European negotiations on a reformed Dublin system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-330]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	It is of course fine to use Article 17, but does Mrs Belhaj not agree with me that there should be an individual consideration? In the motion it proposes that the policy be. This means that any interpreter who has done something for the Netherlands somewhere in the world should be under our protection. Isn't that a step too far? Would it not be better for us to leave this to the services who know it and who can account for the individual circumstances of interpreters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I understand what Mr Bitch said. Our reason for wanting to regulate it in this way is that we want to stay away from a form of arbitrariness or individual treatment. We believe, by definition, that an interpreter, if he is committed to the Netherlands and if there are risks involved, does not have to explain afterwards why he would like to apply. The starting point must be that such a person can simply apply for asylum in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	But won't Mrs Belhaj sit on the IND's chair and the performers with this? Isn't it much better to assess the individual circumstances here? Suppose such an interpreter worked for the Netherlands half a Monday and then thinks after a year: well, it's not really that cozy in Afghanistan, so I'm going to the Netherlands to apply for asylum. Then that's completely drunk, isn't it? Maybe one of those interpreters got pulled over by the Defense Department after half a day because he didn't work. I happen to know a case like this. Then it is strange that such a man or woman can say after a year: am I knocking on the door to the Netherlands for protection? I don't quite follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	It's possible. That's politics: one finds something and the other doesn't. Again, we believe that people should always have the right to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. We do not want anyone who happens to have landed in Norway to be rejected and no longer to be able to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. We've seen a case like this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	I share with Mrs Belhaj the concern for people who are committed to our missions. I think we all share that sympathy. For the purposes of hiring interpreters in Afghanistan, for example, we have put in place a common NATO arrangement. NATO was therefore responsible for hiring interpreters; it was responsible for their training, for the arrangements, for social insurance and so on. Do I hear Mrs Belhaj say that we should completely ignore that? The Netherlands' cooperation with the Canadians, the Australians, the British and so on was for the benefit of many. That is how the Netherlands and D66 have wanted it for years: that is European defence cooperation and cooperation within NATO. That also means that you don't do these kinds of elements alone anymore. As the Netherlands has rightly done as a member of NATO, NATO arrangements must be respected. Is Mrs Belhaj completely ignorant of that? If all Member States are going to do so, it will no longer work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Arrangements are very important, but regulations and laws serve man as far as we are concerned. So I'm not ignoring the arrangements. There will be another motion on this too. I am concerned about how we, as the Netherlands, feel that we should take care of this. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all those who risk their lives for Dutch missions should be able to count on the support of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas Afghan interpreters are specifically referred to as targets for the Taliban in the report on Afghanistan and should therefore be identified as a risk group;]] [[Calls on the Government, in policy, to establish that interpreters who have worked for the Dutch mission in Afghanistan are considered to have a well-founded fear of persecution within the meaning of Article 1 (2) of the Convention on Refugees;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the same level of protection to interpreters of current and future missions to which the same level of threat exists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	I put this question to you for clarification. What date is the message to which Mr Belhaj refers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'm not ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I am not asking for nothing, because the reports from the period we spoke about this have already been made a few years ago. Defence, with the support of the Chamber, has completely changed the policy on this issue. There have been conversations. I think this is something that happened three years ago. If a motion is tabled on this matter, I think it is important that we know the date of the post. I also think it is important for Mrs Belhaj to know the text of the post she refers to. In my view, the messages of office which the Chamber has previously dealt with are of a different nature than what Mrs Belhaj is saying here. I do not know if it is allowed to say this, but I do not think it is unimportant that we should know more about this before the Minister can respond to the motion and before I can find anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I'm filing motions here. If it is the norm that we write footnotes on everything, I think that is understandable. At least it is important for Mrs Eijsink. It itself states that, in its view, this notice is likely to be a notice of three years ago. The position we are putting forward here and which we have also discussed clearly in committee is that we differ on how to resolve it. The cabinet has indicated that it has invented things for this purpose, but D66 wants to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	The message of office is of considerable value. If a motion refers to a notice of office, as far as I am concerned, it is customary to know the date on which the notice is to be referred to. That seems to me to be a valid point, also in view of the cooperation with colleagues. Then we know what Mrs Belhaj means. I'm not talking about 20 footnotes. I'm talking about something that's essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	I hope that, before the budget is discussed, everyone will have written all the right dates, as it is important for people to be able to assess this. We had a good discussion in committee. The Minister has indicated how she looks at this. She simply looks at it differently than D66. That is why I have tabled these two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	I call Mrs Günther. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We wait until the Minister has all the motions, because then she can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. I have already had an exchange of views with Mrs Belhaj on this subject. That is when we found that we have a different approach. I repeat what Mrs Eijsink said very clearly. We have often talked about this issue. Local staff in a mission area is of great added value. We're active all over the world. That local staff is helping us carry out our missions. At the time of the AO I outlined that I am not going to repeat that we are doing everything we can to ensure that working with local staff is as effective as possible. If they are threatened by work carried out for the Netherlands, we offer support. Mrs Eijsink rightly pointed to the new practice and the change in policy in that respect, which has been in force for some time now. This aid does indeed mean an entry visa, after which the normal asylum procedure can be completed in the Netherlands. Mrs Belhaj seems to be asking for a generic interpretation scheme, but I am not in favour of that. Mr Teeven rightly spoke about the individual approach. Every interpreter is different. Every mission is different. Every country is different. Every risk is different. I want to treat interpreters, drivers, hairdressers and logistics supporters as fairly as possible. If you've been a driver or an interpreter, that doesn't mean you're in danger by definition. That may be the case, but that must always be assessed individually. If I understand Mrs Belhaj correctly, she asks whether interpreters can be designated as a risk group. If you look at the Aliens Circular, if you look at how the Secretary of State for Security and Justice uses the technique that applies to it, you see that a population group can be designated as a risk group, but not so much interpreters, drivers, hairdressers and logistics supporters, because they are not a population group. I don't understand why you would want to isolate the interpreter specifically, because we want to treat everyone fairly and individually. It is not appropriate to treat interpreters separately. We also discussed the Dublin agreements in detail last time. In this respect, I attach great importance to the European approach. Therefore, I do not think it is wise to undermine it in advance. I therefore advise against both motions by Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	To avoid a misunderstanding: as if a generic regime does not mean that people who apply for asylum could not ultimately receive rejection. In principle, everyone can always apply for asylum, but there is room for rejection. That is also a good way of achieving what the Minister considers important, namely that not everyone is entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	The current system already provides for this. Then you can see the motions as unnecessary, if this is the explanation. I'm gonna keep finding both motions unnecessary, and that's why I'm gonna detach them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
