ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Recommended to lay the foundations for an ever closer union between the peoples of Europe," the preamble of the 1957 Treaty of Rome, which is still in the Treaty of Lisbon, begins. For me, this is a declaration of intent. If speculators and venture capitalists try to break your coin, don't let them drive you apart, but find a solution together. When terrorists sow death and destruction to create fear and division, you don't let them drive you apart, but you will deal with the problem together. If 1 million refugees a year reach the coasts of Europe, it is not every man for himself, but together you come up with a solution. That's not easy, sometimes very difficult, but together we can be very strong. It is ironic that the British have included this symbolic phrase in their demands package. It is precisely in order to avert a threat of Brexit that once again a tour of European cooperation is needed. Of course I want to keep the British in the Union, but I doubt the wisdom of accepting unilateral and sometimes irrational demands. I have some questions about that. I would rather have a European Union without Britain that can work together than an EU that does not like, cannot or does not want to cooperate with Britain. Not long ago, the banking crisis was one of the EU's major problems. The euro area has worked hard on possible solutions. Great Britain often does not participate and prefers less to happen. Little has changed in the City. Bankers still take irresponsible risks, encouraged by exorbitant bonuses. Countries outside the euro area may participate, but should not be given more say in monetary policy than countries within the euro area. Can the Prime Minister promise this? Everyone wants less rule pressure, but there are a lot of rules for a reason. The EU sets standards for the protection of consumers and the environment worldwide. I don't want the knife in there. Does the cabinet see the danger that necessary rules, such as those relating to car emissions, will be delayed or abolished? I now turn to the free movement of workers. One of the freedoms on which the Union can be proud and of which it is becoming stronger is an equal pay for equal work in the same place. Minister Asscher also announced this last week. How does this relate to a proposal for European workers in England to take their tax credits? Is this guarantee mechanism to prevent abuse of social security, the new standard, or is this really the exception? We should also find a solution for the reception of refugees as a closer union. We hear from the Prime Minister contradictory noises about this. The Prime Minister sometimes pretends to have already done it and as if there are really zero refugees coming in soon. How is that possible if Turkey continues to be sucked into the increasingly disastrous war in Syria? The Netherlands and Europe need to find a realistic solution to deal with refugees together, with a redistribution mechanism and with sanctions for non-participants, but the Prime Minister incites the crisis with vagueness and creative accounting. What is the plan B that makes this prime minister float over the market? We asked about that last week, but then we didn't get an answer. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we should not go to a Europe with closed internal borders? Here too, my group is not seeking division, but rather a closer union between the peoples of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. The agenda of the European Summit is dominated by two main issues: the refugee crisis and the British referendum. Last week Prime Minister Rutte spoke warm words to the Turkish Government in this Chamber. Shortly after these words of warmth and warmth, Turkey started bombing Kurds in Syria. That's causing very big new problems. Surely it is too crazy for words to say that the Kurds who are trained in Iraq by NATO-country soldiers Netherlands to fight IS are being bombed out of Syria by NATO-country Turkey? What is the Prime Minister's opinion on these actions by Turkey? This type of unilateral action that hinders the fight against IS must have an impact on the negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union. There can be no other way if Europe still has an ounce of self-respect. However, Turkey is playing with Europe and the Prime Minister is getting his hat on by the Turkish Government. The Netherlands needs a prime minister who stands for the Dutch and European values, responsibility, justice and freedom, but not a prime minister who stands for the values of power, pride and honour displayed by the Turkish government. Getting Turkey into the EU is not the way to solving the refugee crisis. The problem is now in Europe itself and we must look first and foremost at Greece. That country crosses deadline after deadline. It doesn't or doesn't assist. It doesn't spend the money it gets, or it doesn't spend it wrong, and after a year and a half we still have to search with a lantern. And what does Europe do? Europe gives the Greeks another three months. But there isn't that time. Control at the border of Greece will have to be restored at least temporarily in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	Last week we also debated this, including the chairman of the VVD's group, Halbe Zijlstra. He said here loud and clear that Turkey should never become a member of the European Union. We were a little surprised by that, but I would like to mention this because Mr Buma is also talking about Turkey. He has undoubtedly read the European Parliament's critical report. Is the CDA Halbe Zijlstra saying that Turkey should never become a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yes, and that is not surprising in itself either, because that is already in the CDA's European election programme. It does not so much say "Turkey gone" or "never cooperate with Turkey," but it does offer an alternative to membership. That is what the European People's Party, which the CDA is a member of, says too. That is the step that should be taken now. No one is asking for Turkey to be pushed away altogether, but both the Turks and Europeans are aware that Turkey will eventually not join, but that you must live together as good partners. That has to come from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	Does Mr Buma think that we should stop the pre-accession funds for the negotiations with Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	If you really link this to the 'pre-accessional fees', a nice bureaucratic European word, then I say: of course not. At the same time, apart from that, it is not at all my main priority to talk about pre-accession funds.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The government has also discussed this in Europe. If we are asking Turkey to receive refugees, what we are doing, then we must also be prepared to contribute to them. 'Pre-accessional fees' is a word that does not please me very much, but Mr Voordewind talks about stopping giving money. I'm afraid that 3 billion will be very much needed. I was talking about the Greek border controls. In January, the Prime Minister himself set a deadline: within six to eight weeks, the flow from Turkey must go to zero. This deadline ends in mid-March. Then the influx into Greece must have been reduced to zero. Last week, during the debate, the Prime Minister had to admit that he proposed the matter, the number of people entering Greece, much more rosy than was justified. Not a few hundred, but several thousand refugees reached the Greek coast a day. Last Friday, the Prime Minister said in the weekly conversation that he never meant to say that the influx should go back to zero. What's the truth? What are we supposed to believe? What should the Netherlands still believe? For this Prime Minister, government is increasingly a permanent election campaign, in which you say A in the Netherlands and then do Brussels or Ankara B. A number of countries realise that this is no longer the case. Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland are themselves going to take control of border controls with Greece. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? It is absolutely not ideal for individual countries to do such a thing. You can get very angry about it, but you can also ask yourself whether those countries are not doing exactly what Europe leaves behind, namely guarding the border. If the European Union cannot do it, it is not surprising that individual countries sit together to do it. In short, what they are doing is saying more about Europe's impotence than about the unwillingness of these countries. I call on the Prime Minister to work with these countries to see how their initiative can take shape within Europe, rather than stand up to them. In the long term, the Europe of 28 Member States will only survive if it is recognised that more flexible arrangements are needed than there are now. I am thinking, for example, of a leading group of countries that have a common asylum, migration and border policy. That would not be a goodbye to Europe, but rather a step towards the Europe of the coming decades. We need to work together, but with more flexibility than we do now. A rigid union of 28 Member States will not make it. Is the Prime Minister prepared to bring this to the top as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	Could Mr Buma be more specific? He said that the Visegrád countries, in his view, are doing a number of good things in the area of border control and he wants to cooperate with a number of countries on asylum and migration policies. Mr Buma does not think that we should have the ideas of some of those Visegrád countries, namely 'no foreigner in my country', in our common asylum and migration policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	No, but can you then let those countries be part of the same room for free movement? It is very unusual to be able to enter Europe freely and uncontrolled through these countries. A number of countries want to reap the benefits, namely free border control, but also want to ensure that those they do not want go out to other countries. That's very double. You can just foresee that this isn't gonna survive time. You don't have to be a visionary for that. We're not gonna make it. If we want to move towards a Europe that stands, we must recognise that there will be differences. Those countries are simply not going to do it, and that is why we need to get border controls in order ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Let me conclude, then, that we are not going to do what those countries are doing. I do not believe that this is the way we want to deal with our asylum and migration policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	No, that's not my plea either. However, it is not intended that other countries should go to zero, while we may have 90 000 refugees who are threatening to get a little bit into the Netherlands this year and we welcome everyone who comes in here. We simply cannot do that. That's not gonna last this part of the world. We have already told those countries to do it, but they are not. Then the conclusion is that we in Europe seem to be faced with great differences. With those countries that have a similar system of refugee reception, we must do our border controls. That perspective seems much more logical to me. The Europe of different speeds brings me to the next item on the agenda for the summit, the British referendum. In general, historically, the interests of the Netherlands and the wishes of the UK do not differ far. That is also the case now. The Netherlands, too, needs stricter rules on labour migration and does not want a Europe that will go on forever with more rules. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, Europe must focus on its core tasks. In this sense, the Netherlands, and therefore the Prime Minister tomorrow, has an interesting position. He can side with the United Kingdom, because the content of what the UK wants to bring in is generally beneficial for the Netherlands too. In addition, if these requirements remain and Britain remains within the European Union, it will be beneficial for the Netherlands in both cases. Does the Prime Minister support Britain's demands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Buma said at first that the Netherlands must also move towards a stricter form of migration. He then said that British wishes are also better for Europe. Does Mr Buma really think it would be better for Europe if we were to interfere with the free movement of persons within the Union as far as the British proposals say? Is that really good for Europe? Does the CDA think that's good for Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	The CDA has long been convinced that, in particular, the labour migration rules we now have are not sustainable in the long term. People just don't accept that anymore. You can say very "brave forward" and that we will continue with 28 countries on this road, but look at the problems we have here and they also have England. This will only lead to more discontent and more problems. You can only say that what England is doing now, namely that you have to live longer in a country in order to claim social security, is actually a wish that has been alive in this Parliament, and also in the CDA, for a long time. Then I say to the Prime Minister: support those wishes! If you support those wishes, and if more countries support them, there is a chance that you will have both and that Britain will remain within the EU. In my view, both, especially staying within the EU, are of great importance to the Netherlands and to the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	I understand that Mr Buma is saying that, but I would like to make the following point. The CDA is also a party that looks at the importance of trade, business and opportunities for entrepreneurs. If we all introduce migration restrictions of this kind, free movement will soon be put under pressure. This also means much more delay in all kinds of economic opportunities. Does the CDA take that for granted? After all, I don't hear the CDA about that. I only hear the CDA about the fact that people no longer accept it and that we will have to move forward "bravely." But what about the economic opportunities for the Netherlands and for other countries in the European Union if we risk these things so easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	Let me say first of all that what is being asked here by England is not an extremely serious obstacle to European cooperation. It makes it more difficult for workers from Eastern Europe to work in the West, and vice versa, as far as the claim to social security is concerned. In fact, working doesn't get any harder, but if you don't have a job, you can't get social security in that country at that level so quickly. You may also wonder why that is not arranged at the start. Europe was not created to allow the free movement of persons, to make Schengen. It was established for the citizens of Europe by means of freedom of movement. If there are any mistakes in that freedom of movement, you have to take it away. If we don't, we're gonna collapse that building of 28 countries and we're gonna have nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr Verhoeven still? No? Please continue, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	I only now see that the chairman has a very nice screen; it looks like an iPad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yeah, but it doesn't do you much good in the moods. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	All right, I'll come to a conclusion. So the question was whether the Prime Minister supported the British demands. The final point I would like to raise is the discussions that are still taking place with Greece on the third aid package. It's starting to get a little unclear about that. Worrying reports are coming in on the progress of the agreements with Greece on the third aid package. What is the state of play at the moment? There is also still uncertainty about the role of the IMF. It must be made clear that at least there can be no further commitments to Greece, for example in the form of write-off of debts or putting reforms in place in the longer term. Greece has to deliver because we support them with a lot of money. In short, what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. British membership of the EU is not a favour from the United Kingdom to Europe. On the contrary, half of British trade takes place with Member States of the European Union and a Brexit would make the fight against terror much more difficult. This referendum is the result of an election stunt by Prime Minister Cameron. It seemed handy, after all, he won the elections with it, but it's coming back in his face like a boomerang. It is fine that Cameron is proposing a reform of the European Union, but Europe must not be blackmailed by British people who can do the best they can. For D66, membership of the European Union is not a choice menu either. Of course, it would be better if Britain remained a member, but not at all costs. So I appeal to our Prime Minister, in his capacity as Prime Minister of the Netherlands and EU President: let the European Heads of Government be self-conscious, do not let them give in to blackmail and let them stand firm if the British want to get into it. So not begging for their favors but playing "hard to get." I would also ask the Prime Minister to read the British proposals. The annotated agenda leaves a great deal of room for questioning. What exactly is the Dutch position? And what's his strategy as chairman? The right to free movement is one of the foundations of European cooperation. The cabinet indicates that it can live with a restriction, but the maximum duration of that restriction is still open. What's an acceptable price for the Prime Minister? As far as my group is concerned, that must be really clear. As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister does not go to the negotiating table without discussing this with the House of Representatives. The restriction of free movement must also be subject to conditions. First of all, there must be an exceptionally high influx and there must be a disproportionate recourse to the social system. However, according to the European Commission, the United Kingdom already fulfils these conditions. Does the Prime Minister share that analysis? Which Member States fulfil these conditions even more and what would be the consequence of that? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Another wish of the British is to be able to discuss the euro area as a non-member of the euro area. France and Germany have already raised objections. What does the Netherlands actually say in this? Finally, on this subject: Cameron has put things on edge over the last few days. He actually wants a deal on Thursday. Then he can hold a ministerial council on Friday and then he can, so to speak, launch a referendum on Saturday. And this while the criticism is on the right track. For example, there is German and French criticism of the exceptions for the London City and the eastern and southern Member States criticise the restrictions on EU migrants. Will the Prime Minister have the knife put on his throat tomorrow? Is 15 days of decisive change in European law, which could be the result of a deal, not ridicul? Can the European Parliament simply be sidelined? D66 advocates a thorough examination of the proposals on the deal that is now on the table and simply finds a deal on Thursday too early. I come to speak on the other subject on the agenda. Where the European Union is being held hostage by London on the one hand, Ankara is on the other hand ready with its demands. In exchange for receiving refugees, Turkey gets... Yes, what does Turkey actually get? Turkey receives EUR 3 billion, but that money goes directly to the refugee camps. So it is always new energy for the accession negotiations. In principle, however, Turkey has nothing to do with this, for there is yet another devastating report from the European Parliament. There is no mention in any way of progress. There is the opposite of progress, namely only decline. We have had numerous debates on this. The cabinet promises every time that there will be no blackmail. That's what the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister say every time. Just last week, in a debate with the Chamber, the Foreign Minister said that everything that happens fits within the procedures. And yet the Turkish Prime Minister, Davutoğlu, after a discussion with our Prime Minister, welcomes the fact that major steps have been taken towards accession. It's really hard to follow. That is why I ask: is the Prime Minister prepared to send a report of his conversation with Davutoğlu to the Chamber? What specific requirements do Turkey have to meet with regard to visa liberalisation? What requirements have already been met? With regard to the integration of refugees, I have the following questions. What steps have already been taken? What about the work permits? And is Turkey going to ratify the entire Refugee Treaty? Geopolitically, of course, the situation is becoming ever more threatening. If Turkey sends ground troops to Syria, it seems that Turkey wants to move us into something as a NATO ally. Is the Prime Minister going to take a stand against this? The cabinet also writes: if Russian bombing continues in Syria, the European Council must take a clear stand. Does this mean that the Prime Minister is going to plead for sanctions? There are reports that the Netherlands and Germany are moving together to send Syrian refugees back to Turkey in exchange for resettlement. Is that right? Does the government now consider Turkey to be a safe country? And how much resettlement will the Netherlands do? A European solution to the migration crisis risks getting further away every day, especially now that the Visegrád countries are closing their borders together. My colleague told me. Our foreign minister was in that region last week. Can this trip be considered a failure? What will the Prime Minister do about this at tomorrow's European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	I see an interruption by Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	They're just objective, neutral questions like you're used to from me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	You can ask for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	I'm curious to hear the Minister's answer. I would like to ask a question about that other point on Turkey. Mr Verhoeven lists a number of critical issues with regard to Turkey: the Turkish-Syrian border is close, human rights are deteriorating, the European Parliament's report and then the bombing of the Syrian Kurds, on which we adopted a motion last week, supported by D66. What action should this Prime Minister take, jointly towards Turkey, to make that country operate better with regard to the refugee problem, when it comes to not bombing the Syrian Kurds, who are now our partners, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	I have mentioned a number of concerns. The situation of refugees must, of course, be said to be improved. For example, we have referred earlier to the possibility of getting to work there, getting a perspective and being properly taken care of there. These are things where D66 has always been built up with the Christian Union and we have said: make that happen. I believe that dialogue is still the most important way forward. Of course, we should not be too easy to go along with, and we should not always make all kinds of noises that seem to indicate that Turkey is always getting its way from the European Union, whereas the Netherlands and the European Parliament are actually very critical of the way Turkey deals with a number of fundamental values. So we should not be too easy to give the Turks the feeling that they can make what they make, because we need them for the flow of refugees. That seems to me to be the main line of our Prime Minister's position. That did not go quite well last week, I think, because Davutoğlu came out and said: we are moving forward in the accession process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	That is also my question to Mr Verhoeven. He says: dialogue, but at the same time increasing pressure. Then what suggestions does the D66 Group make to the Prime Minister to increase this pressure? We have restarted the negotiations with full energy. Is now a good time to do that? We are still paying the accession money to Turkey; 3 billion has been promised. What means of pressure does the D66 Group see to get Turkey back to its feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	One very important means of exerting pressure is that there will be no blackmail with any accession requirement. That is also a means of exerting pressure which the Prime Minister has said he does not need to be put under pressure, because he himself is very keen to do so. Not only the Prime Minister, but also the Foreign Minister, has said this time and time again here in the Chamber. I see myself here as a parliamentary watchdog. When it is clear that steps have been taken that do not fit in with the procedures, we will definitely oppose them. But opening chapters is fundamentally not a step closer to accession, nor is it a step closer to undermining the criteria. That is still acceptable as far as D66 is concerned. Opening a chapter is the beginning of the dialogue on the content contained in those chapters, for example on human rights, the legal situation or the rule of law. You should be able to talk about that, but when a clear step forward is taken, which is not in line with all the criticisms that are justified, the Prime Minister goes too far and we will pull him on his jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Prime Minister made a commitment on this point and said that there should be no blackmail. On this subject, we have even tabled a motion in the Chamber. It's all promised, but that doesn't impress the Turks, of course. They want to go through at full speed and with renewed energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	Do you see, for example, the suspension of the 3 billion or the pre-accession funds as a means of increasing pressure on Turkey to stop bombing the Syrian Kurds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	I see it all as a means, but a means of exerting pressure must only be used if it has not yet crossed the borders. That is not the case at the moment. We have always said that we must not go any further on a point that we have said cannot be done. We just talked about that. There are accession criteria. There are very strict requirements. That's what D66 stands for. But we must also have a little faith in the position of the cabinet. Turkey has wanted to become a member for some 50 years, but it is still not a member. The situation is now deteriorating on a number of points. There are only a few reports from Turkey, some of which are also intended for domestic use, which indicate that the Turks are seeing major accession steps. I have to admit that I have not yet seen any hard form, note or paper, which I must also give to the Cabinet, which shows that, at the time of accession, a step has actually been taken that goes beyond the boundaries that D66, the Christian Union and, in my view, all the parties to this Chamber have drawn. It's a very complicated process. It's going very slowly, but as a Lower House, we have to be on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr Verhoeven continued his speech. In fact, he's gonna wrap it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u33	I had a somewhat gloomy and sober input for my work, but I still have a minute left. I'd like to use it to make a positive conclusion. I started my speech with a referendum and I conclude with that too. I congratulate the government on the start of their campaign for the referendum on 6 April. That is surprising, but it is, of course, quite right. It all started out very difficult. I've often run into the wall of the two gentlemen in box-K. They said we're not gonna do anything, we're not gonna hand out any leaflets, because we're not gonna see any of that; we're gonna explain it carefully. But the situation is now very hopeful. A Twitter account has now been opened by the Cabinet. That's not nothing. There is also an infographic which clearly identifies the treaty and all its consequences. I have to compliment the State Department for that. Thank you for that! I cannot wait for the next action of the cabinet, but I am sure that if the cabinet continues this line, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and I will fly together on the street in April.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there will be an important benchmark in the history of European cooperation. There are two important issues on the agenda: the refugee problem and the British reform requirements. They can only make the division greater. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, that is all the more reason to focus on a Europe that everyone wants, namely cooperation that ensures peace, security and prosperity. Let us stop taking measures that lead to further integration, where we lose a large part of the Member States. I am also talking about further integration of the euro area. Let us also stop taking measures, for example, in the area of borders and the coastguard. I wait neatly until the rulers are finished talking. The Christian Union Group is pleased that an agreement has been reached on the position of the United Kingdom for the time being. The United Kingdom is one of the most important partners for the Netherlands and is an important counterpower against the dominance of Germany and France. The Christian Union Group therefore shares Prime Minister Cameron's deep concern, for example about the ever-increasing transfer of sovereignty and the regulatory burden from Brussels. It is therefore a good thing that steps are being taken, for example by making it easier for national parliaments to prevent unwanted European legislation. On that point, I have three questions for the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. Premier Cameron wants to move away from the pursuit of an ever closer union. Will the Netherlands and the United Kingdom take a clear stand against the automation of ever-increasing political integration? There is now a kind of explanation, a kind of explanation of this text, but the more we distance ourselves from it, the better it is according to the Christian Union. The negotiating agreement also contains a proposal to deny residents of other European Member States access to social security for a certain period of time, the so-called emergency braking procedure. Can the Prime Minister promise that this will apply not only to England but also to all the other Member States? The intergovernmental decision of Heads of State or Government is partly in favour of a future treaty amendment. Does the Prime Minister also take this opportunity to consider whether a possible treaty amendment would allow the decision to be taken to withdraw from joint arrangements, such as EMU or Schengen? That should be an option. It is also a point from the government agreement of the cabinet. Then there are the refugees and, above all, the role of Turkey. Last week we adopted a motion to support the Syrian Kurds, but the situation subsequently deteriorated dramatically. The Turks bombed the Syrian Kurds, a partner of the West, to fight Jabhat al-Nusra and ISIS. The Kurds are busy fighting Jabhat al-Nusra on the ground, but the Turks, our ally in NATO, are now fighting our partner on the ground in Syria itself. What should be the response of the Netherlands and the EU in addressing our ally on the ground? We have put forward a package of 3 billion. It'll be released with instalments. How is the Prime Minister going to increase the pressure on Turkey so that Turkey's bombing of Syria is stopped? What concrete measures is he going to take? What consequences does the Prime Minister attach to the implementation of the 3 billion package if Turkey persists in the fight against the Kurds? A new report from the European Parliament was presented yesterday. Colleagues have already referred to it. There has been a deterioration in terms of expression and freedom of the press. Is it not time, perhaps, to suspend pre-accession fees together with VVD, CDA and PVV after the dramatic report on the situation in Turkey? A word about Turkey as a third country. The VVD has also discussed this extensively. Now it turns out it's going exactly the other way. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that Turkey's safe third country is far out of sight and that there are no prospects for sending people back within a short period of time? Greece gets three months. Last week a motion was tabled to make it eight weeks to increase the pressure on Greece. Now Greece gets three months, but it must have an action plan in one month to get the hotspots off the ground. How hard is that deadline? We've seen a Prime Minister's deadline before. Will the Netherlands indeed work on a mini-Schengen, or will the borders be shifted to the next Schengen countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr Voordewind has questions about Turkey and about a mini-Schengen. He is very critical of Turkey, but we also need Turkey to solve the refugee problem. What is the solution of the Christian Union when it comes to migration issues? If you want to take Turkey's size, if you don't like a mini-Schengen, then what is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr Mulder did not hear me say that the Christian Union does not like a mini-Schengen. If Turkey does not meet the criteria for the reception of refugees, then at least the refugees must be safely received in Greece. We have initially indicated that all emphasis must be placed on the conflict and that this must be contained, because it is the cause of the flow of refugees. Secondly, we are dealing with reception in the region. We believe that much more money is needed to make the reception in the region more humane. This means that people must be able to work in Lebanon and Jordan and that new emergency aid should also be made available in Iraq. Finally, in Greece these hotspots must come off the ground. That is where registration and selection must take place for redistribution across Europe. If it all fails and Greece does not comply with it, we must move the borders and then a mini-Schengen comes into view, as the Prime Minister has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address two important issues. I will start with the British exit or stay in the European Union and then consider the issue of refugees in detail. But first, the agreements, the proposals, which are now in place and which have been dragged in by Cameron, about economic governance. As is well known, the City, the financial heart of the United Kingdom, is a warm advocate of EU membership. British banks want fewer rules, but will soon benefit fully from, for example, the capital market union. What are the consequences of this deal for the supervision of the UK financial sector and financial stability on the continent? Is it possible, under the current circumstances, for the United Kingdom to join the Banking Union in the long term? Is the single rulebook likely or not to be applicable to British banks in the future, based on the deal? What would a possible UK exit mean for the single rulebook and the alignment of supervisory activities between the United Kingdom and the European Union? Then I come to the question of sovereignty and the proposals on the table. It is quite a hot potato: the pursuit of a "ever closer union among the people of Europe." When I read the deal, the United Kingdom will be excluded from the pursuit of further political integration. At the same time, last week, the six founding fathers of the European Union stated in a joint declaration that they remained committed to the goal of the 'ever closer union'. Since this is such a decisive factor for the United Kingdom, I would like to hear from the Minister what exactly is happening. Is the United Kingdom expected to participate in the "ever closer union" or not? What does this mean in practice? Then I come to social security and freedom of movement. What is the state of play on the conditions for the emergency braking mechanism to enter into force? What is the most widely debated at the moment? Should all the conditions set out in the deal be met soon, will a country be able to avail itself of the mechanism, or only part of it? On what condition does the Cabinet consider it fair for the United Kingdom to invoke the emergency braking mechanism? Does the government agree with the European Commission that the United Kingdom would already be eligible for the mechanism's entry into force? What would be the desired maximum duration of the operation of the mechanism as regards the cabinet? This part of the deal has been heavily criticised, including by the Visegrád 4, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The common thread is always that the proposal involves discrimination against Eastern European workers. I would like a response from the cabinet to these statements. Critics wonder whether the measures will have the desired effect and whether migrants are attracted by the United Kingdom on account of social services or the economy and the flexible labour market. Several British universities conclude the latter. What is the government's opinion on this point? I now come to the refugees. Last week we had a wide-ranging debate with the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, but there has been a lot of news since then, so it is good that we are talking about it again today. First of all, I would like to talk about the contradictory noises in relation to the possible action of NATO Aegean. At first, it seemed as if NATO's clear mission would only be to gather information. But on the one hand there is the German Minister of Defense who wants and drives much more on a pushback. He says: I have already been promised by Ankara that we can also send refugees back. On the other hand, the question arises: will NATO help save drownings, as the Turkish coastguard is doing at the moment? How's the cabinet in here? For the SP a pushback is unspeakable, but that is probably what the cabinet wants. I agree with Mr Verhoeven's question: does the Turkish cabinet currently consider Turkey to be a safe third country? I would also like to draw attention to a very critical report which was discussed yesterday in the European Parliament, the report by the rapporteur, Mr Piri. How will the European Union, the European Commission and, in particular, the Netherlands, in its role as President, ensure that the necessary improvements are made and enforced? I come to talk about the offensive in Syria against Turkish fighters. In the letter from the Foreign Minister, I do not yet read a condemnation of a possible Turkish-Saudi invasion. I'm asking him to speak it out now. Does the Minister condemn a possible such invasion? At Kilis, the border is closed. Tens of thousands of Syrians from the city of Aleppo have been hiding in and around Azaz. The Netherlands is helping Turkey with the reception of Syrian refugees on the Turkish side. My group chairman's request last week was to organise this aid on the Syrian side, because the people sitting there are tens of thousands of people and if the bombing of the city of Aleppo continues and the situation deteriorates, hundreds of thousands of people may need to be helped. They're trapped. They have nowhere to go. The Prime Minister said: we are already doing that, we are already helping on the Syrian side. That's what I'd like to come back to. I have not yet shown such a thing. It would be very unfortunate if we had the impression that the Prime Minister is saying so, but that is not the case. The Roemer motion asked to help the Syrians who are trapped in Syria. That motion was rejected last Tuesday, but I will gladly retable it. Turkey is currently catching 2.5 million Syrians. That number will go towards the 3 million. It is therefore true that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence continue to say in the press that the Netherlands is doing everything in its power to solve the migration crisis, while in fact they mean only one thing. People fleeing war, from American, Russian, Turkish, French and now also Dutch bombs, are allowed to knock for protection, anywhere but here. The Prime Minister talks about dislocation of Dutch society: we cannot handle it. The Secretary of Defense even talked about hell. A hell! Meanwhile, the cabinet complains about a lack of support in Dutch society. That's not as crazy as the cabinet says: well, this is the gateway to hell, you come in, and now we'd like to organize support. In that respect, it is not surprising that there will not be such support. Why isn't the Cabinet trying to solve the real problems? The problems of hundreds of thousands of people who are currently failing in the region; the number of people of 460,000 who the UNHCR is telling us about. These people urgently need to find a place in a safe part of the world. What about those 160,000 people from countries like Italy and Greece, who will help redistribute the Netherlands? In December, the Gasthuizen/Sjoerdsma motion asked the government to work both in the Netherlands and in the EU to comply with the UN Refugee Convention. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is about to return to the umpteenth EU summit, and that is a pity. The most important point at that summit is once again the asylum crisis. However, this crisis is not resolved by the European Union, but only made worse. After all, in recent years, Brussels has come up with only rules and guidelines in favour of asylum seekers and foreigners. Asylum seekers are never stopped and are always entitled to procedures and reception. They can receive residence permits on the basis of the most soft criteria, and that even applies to criminals among them. With the full support of the cabinet, the European Union has made itself so weak that it wants the asylum crisis to be resolved by Turkey. With that country, with Turkey, a deal has been made that is too wretched for words. In exchange for a lot of money, in exchange for a vision of EU accession, in exchange for a vision of visa liberalisation, Turkey must limit the flow of migrants to the EU. In addition, many refugees from Turkey need to be taken over by European countries. In a letter today, we read that unfortunately the cabinet agrees with that. Then, of course, the question arises as to how many that will become. The EU and the cabinet are all in the throes of Erdogan, who can now blackmail himself completely. Our Prime Minister has also been fooled with open eyes. In order to sell this Turkey deal to the citizens, the Prime Minister is constantly deluding himself with figures and with deadlines for resolving the crisis. In December last year he already said that the asylum influx through Turkey really had to be reduced within a few weeks. Of course that didn't work out, after which he kicked out the can a month later. Then there was the announcement that there really had to be results within six to eight weeks. Those days are almost over and in the meantime no one knows what will happen if that does not happen again. The cabinet itself is the least clear about that. The only thing that is visible is the powerlessness and total lack of action of the cabinet. The time for muddying must really be over. Stop making senseless EU meetings. Do not always mirror the citizen before he stays out. Get a really big line through that embarrassing deal with Erdogan. That's what the PM's PVV is asking. Finally take matters into your own hands and choose the Netherlands. Close your own, Dutch borders and don't allow any asylum seekers. I'd like to hear a response. Unlike our Prime Minister, many Eastern European countries dare to counter the unelected Brussels bureaucrats. These countries say, for example, that they are not going to participate in making asylum seekers from Italy or Greece appear. These countries refuse to participate in the Brussels policy of mopping with the tap open. patriotism lives there. It is wonderful to see that more and more countries are no longer being united in common EU policies, policies that fail on all fronts. Many countries want their own freedom back. Many countries want their own borders back. That is what is causing the EU to collapse, and that is very good news. The forthcoming referendum in the United Kingdom can hopefully speed up that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u39	What Mr Fritsma is saying here again is not new. But I'm still in it week in, week out to hear it all again. So let me ask a few substantive questions about it again. Mr Fritsma says: Europe is powerless and it is impossible to tackle this together with Europe. He says: say it all, don't go there anymore, stay in the Netherlands and close the borders. So you have to cancel all kinds of international treaties. In general, the PVV is not so sensitive to this. Well, I guess I'll just have to ask you the next question. The PVV wants to close the borders completely. How exactly does the PVV intend to do that? America is failing to close the border with Mexico. Not even North Korea can close its own borders. How exactly does the PVV see that? This is a delusion that is raised every time. I just want to know how the PVV wants to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u40	We've explained that a lot. You can man border posts. You can check between border posts. You can use the military and the military for that. Furthermore, you simply stop maintaining asylum reception and asylum procedures. I say again: no more asylum seekers will be admitted and no more asylum seekers will be received here. That is what needs to be done logically. Even Mr Verhoeven's group must see that it is a chaos in Europe and that the cabinet in Brussels supports a policy that fails enormously. We're not getting anywhere near a millimeter. Hotspots, redistributing refugees? It's crazy, it's not working. That's why you have to choose your own boundaries, indeed. That's what the PVV keeps repeating as long as it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u41	D66 does not want to close its borders, of course, D66 wants to cooperate with other countries and D66 wants to trade. However, I am talking about what the PVV wants. Who says it's possible, who claims time and time again that it's possible to physically close the borders with border posts and the army. I told you, America can't close the border with Mexico. How does the PVV intend to ensure that the Dutch border is closed at all places? How's the PVV gonna make that happen? It sounds good, but it's never worked out properly. You should want that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u42	I regret that D66 underestimates our Defense and our Royal Marechaussee. Of course, our army is capable of doing so. Of course, border posts can be manned. Of course, there can be surveillance in between so that you can actually stop asylum seekers. Once again, if we take this asylum procedure off the table, if we stop providing asylum, they will not even come to the Netherlands. That is what the PVV is in favour of, and we keep repeating it. Once again, we have not created this chaos, as groups like yours have done with this open border policy, which we are now reaping from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u43	Mr Verhoeven, I don't think you're getting along very well, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mr President, sometimes in a debate it is not necessary to get together but to force each other to work out what sounds so good here in the Chamber, which sounds so good for the camera, which sounds so good in the media, just to see if it works or not. I think that should be done today. I therefore believe that Mr Fritsma should answer all my questions about this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u45	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u46	... because it's all bullshit. Apart from the fact that D66 has a completely different picture of how to solve this problem internationally and everything that is needed for it, I keep saying that what the PVV says it can do is impossible. I think it is bad that the PVV is turning everyone's mind with a solution that will never be realized. I would therefore ask Mr Fritsma to be very clear about all the steps that are being taken to 'close the borders', those words, because I have never seen them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u47	I just explained that. Mr Verhoeven is talking about the Refugee Convention. We tabled a motion to withdraw it years ago. You can do that, you can do that unilaterally, you don't even need other countries to do that. Again, treaties can be abandoned. We can now start closing the borders. Mr Verhoeven talks about rules and treaties. Look what Germany is doing! Germany is throwing the Dublin Regulation overboard. Those are rules that are thrown overboard, but then suddenly it can be D66. If it is to the advantage of asylum seekers and foreigners, anything is allowed. That is the hypocrisy I would like to mention. The rules we had in the Netherlands for the admission of asylum seekers have also simply been thrown overboard by your group. In 28,000 cases, a general has been pardoned. In 28.000 cases, the judge has said "there is no grounds for residence, you must leave the Netherlands," but your group says: don't worry about the judge, throw the judgments through the shredder. That is throwing policy overboard, so do not come to me with the remark that something can or cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u49	As I said, it is wonderful to see that many countries in Europe are no longer united in common EU policies. The EU is collapsing, and that is wonderful news. The forthcoming referendum can speed it up, as I said. The end of the EU is a real prospect and a good prospect for the PVV which the Prime Minister must anticipate with regard to the PVV. Freed from the EU, the recovery can begin towards a free, prosperous and safe Netherlands. A Netherlands without mass immigration, without asylum invasions and without Islamization. That's what the PVV is ready for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. Without any shame, Prime Minister Rutte succumbs to Turkey's pure blackmail. The EU is bluffed off like a little boy. It's an extremely dangerous game. The Turks get what they want, many billions of them and a view of Turkish accession. According to the Turkish Prime Minister, even great steps were taken last week. The only thing the EU brings in is new Turkish threats to open the gates to Europe. The negotiations are steeped in weakness and fear. It's terrible to see. We say to the Prime Minister: no longer bow to Turkey, don't give the country any more euro cents and never make it a member of the EU. The Erdogan regime also shows its double agenda in Northern Syria. That's where the heroic Kurds are bombed. Why does the Cabinet keep quiet about these cowardly attacks? Take a strong distance from the Turkish alliance with ISIS. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. Even NATO must now intervene in the asylum crisis. But why doesn't she send the boats with asylum seekers back to the Turkish coast? NATO needs to put together a fleet blockade that doesn't get through anything or anyone. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. A number of countries are finally taking firm action. Since Sweden introduced border controls, 90% fewer migrants enter. France is putting a total stop to the inclusion of asylum seekers. The Eastern European countries too are courageously opposed to Merkel's plans and want to build a Bulgarian-Macedonian fence. We say: close the Dutch borders too, finally stand up for the interests of our own people. The Maastricht, Schengen and Dublin Treaties have failed. A Brexit is in sight. The end of the European Union is getting closer and closer. That's very nice news for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address three issues: first migration, then Turkey and finally the United Kingdom. "Of course you can stop migration." I quote a recent headline from one of the national newspapers. The key message of that article was: first of all, the EU must put its external borders in order and address migration problems at the root. The SGP strongly supports both measures. The Schengen area cannot function without proper surveillance of the external borders. Cooperation between European Member States is essential. The harmonisation of procedures, procedures and investments in border control is one thing, but we believe that border surveillance remains primarily the responsibility of the Member States. The government agrees with this, and so it is all the more remarkable that the government wants to agree to a possible unilateral decision on border intervention by Frontex in a Member State, even if that Member State does not want to do so. I believe that this goes directly against the principle of subsidiarity and undermines the sovereignty of the Member States. I ask the Minister once again about his view of the legal basis chosen by the European Commission in relation to the sovereignty of the Member States. Why, in the case of long-term weak border controls, does the Minister choose to restrict national powers instead of temporarily removing them from the Schengen area? The President's Report of 13 February mentions the importance of good return mechanisms for migrants. What is the Minister going to do at European level to further strengthen the policy on this issue? I come to my second point: Turkey. Cooperation with Turkey as it takes shape is essential, but it cannot be cooperation at all costs. We agree that Turkey should receive political and financial support to make the refugee crisis manageable. At the same time, political pressure is needed to improve the overall human rights situation and also the worrying Turkish military actions in Syria. If the West is not careful, then Turkey drags NATO into a ground war; that is at least the ambition that Turkey recently expressed. I would say: if they need ground troops, they could appeal to the Syrian Kurds who are fighting against a common enemy instead of bombing them. As far as the SGP is concerned, we must never be messed up in a ground war. We must recognise Turkey's regional key position, but at the same time we must pay attention to the many other political and economic interests it is pursuing. Everything continues to point out that Turkey is not fit for EU membership. Does the Minister share that view? My final point concerns the United Kingdom. I'll take that from the east to the west border. It is essential for Europe to meet the requirements of the United Kingdom so that the Netherlands and other European Member States also benefit from this agreement. This is good for the EU as a whole. It is a good thing to turn a rigid colossus of power into a whole that serves the Member States, which together form the EU. Unlike the cabinet, the SGP believes that concerns about the impact of EU decision-making on Member States should also be taken into account if they hinder or hinder the development of the euro area, also because such concerns often concern these developments from and within the euro area. The SGP supports the proposal to introduce EU targets for reducing regulatory pressure from the EU for increased competitiveness. The SGP is also in favour of a subsidiarity mechanism to further strengthen or re-establish the position of national parliaments in order to ensure national sovereignty. In addition, the SGP aims to establish a safeguard mechanism against the negative effects of differences in national social systems leading to migration flows. These are all wishes that the United Kingdom has also put on the table. All in all, the SGP says that it is precisely if we want to keep the United Kingdom in the EU that we must meet the requirements, especially when it comes to strengthening national sovereignty and more consistent application of the principle of subsidiarity. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would like to add the following question. Are we not forced by the wishes of the United Kingdom to at least think more thoroughly about defining the borders of European integration? The whole mechanism that ensures that the EU's power continues to expand must stop at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union also mentioned the unstoppable integration within the European Union. I do not think that image is entirely in line with reality at the moment. We need a common solution to the problem of the flow of refugees. We need a common solution to tackle terror. We can find a common solution to strengthen our energy procurement. None of that's gonna happen. Why, therefore, is there still talk of 'further European integration', whereas the Member States of the Netherlands are also guilty of the fact that they are constantly on the brakes? Why does the SGP bring that image forward all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u53	This picture is based on the way in which the EU itself acts. As a result, many national parliaments are aware that in this Chamber, too, there is a danger that all kinds of tasks will go to Europe step by step. Everything shows that Europe's objective is political unification, or at least a kind of federal state in which a sort of United States of Europe is created. You can tell by all kinds of measures that are being proposed. However, the objective of many Member States is sound cooperation. Europe has become a power within itself. You have to distance yourself from that. If the EU accepts and is satisfied with a clear form of cooperation and clearly defined powers, I think that decision-making, including in the field of energy and counter-terrorism, would be much more flexible. My last question to the Minister was about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr Bishop says that Europe has become a power within itself. I see it almost exactly opposite. I believe that Europe is very powerless to tackle problems that must be on Europe's side, namely cross-border problems. I find it very strange that, for example, after the attacks in Paris, we did not take the step towards exchanging information between national intelligence services. We have left that step behind in European cooperation. Does Mr Bishop not agree with me that we really need to solve a number of problems at European level rather than pretending every time that Europe is making a fuss when in fact it has become powerless to solve people's problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u55	Then you could also ask how it is that the Member States are not prepared to make such an exchange; the concrete example given by Mr Verhoeven. In my analysis, the reason for this is that people are very concerned that a new European power, a European body, is being created that intervenes in all kinds of national competences. In fact, that means that as a country, as a nation state, you return your own sovereignty. There's the great fear. I can understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u56	I can understand that fear, too, but when we ask the people of Europe if they want a solution to the risks and dangers of terror and the uncontrolled flow of refugees, they all say 'yes'. If you claim, almost like the PVV, that this can only be done at national level without wanting European cooperation, I hope I have misunderstood you. I fully agree with you that the fear of unnecessary integration is justified. But let us resolve a number of issues which are indeed cross-border and are therefore on the European Union's side, also with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to reassure Mr Verhoeven that he has misunderstood me when it comes to rejecting European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u58	I'll allow you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you very much. I strongly reject the forces that go further towards European integration at the expense of national sovereignty, but I am a warm supporter of European cooperation on the basis of equality between Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman. It's storming in Europe. Today we are discussing two issues: the so-called Brexit and migration. The question is whether things are going well in these areas. Commissioner Timmermans said not so long ago that the European project could end. I just noticed that some parties were a bit waiting for that. Europe is making quite a lot of money for the Netherlands. According to the Central Planning Bureau, we owe about 50 billion to economic growth to the EU. We would lose it if the EU collapsed. Then the jobs are gone, but also the tax revenues. We'd have to cut 20 billion. The party that just called for the EU to fall apart did not know four years ago how quickly it had to leave the Catshuis when it had to cut a significantly lower amount. So I'm curious what's going to happen to that party. The discussion about the Brexit is an exciting one. In the United Kingdom, David Cameron's position is not jealous. His own party is divided. That division extends to his cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u61	I was asked what would happen to my party if the EU collapsed. The answer is simple: then it will be a celebration, because then we will finally be freed from the strange Brussels rules that are destroying our country. Then we are freed from mass immigration. Then we are liberated from the asylum invasion. Then we are freed from Islamization. After all, those negative things that flood us come directly from EU policies. I was therefore called upon to answer Mr Mulder's question. That's what I've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u62	That's a little bit like your speech just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u63	Of course, my colleague in the VVD should not ask any more questions if he does not need this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u64	We will lose 50 billion in economic growth. As far as the fist is concerned, 40% of the GNP goes to the tax and contribution revenues for the care. I think the PVV always thinks care is important and that's where it goes. In part, the care becomes priceless. Then you're gonna have to cut back on that. I wonder what the PVV will do and whether it will still be cheering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u65	There are other figures, which my group has had calculated. This shows that this is the right thing to do. Let me tell you this: if we had not had mass immigration and asylum invasion, for which your party is responsible, we would have saved billions. Your party leaves the borders wide open to this day. The reception of a single asylum seeker costs tens of thousands of euros a year and you ask for cuts. Stop that! Close the borders! Stop mass immigration! Look how much money you have left when you finally have the guts to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u66	The EU provides us with 50 billion a year. The PVV wants to distance itself from that, already screaming. You can do that. I told you, David Cameron's position isn't jealous. As far as the VVD is concerned, the United Kingdom remains in the European Union. There's a deal in the making with the United Kingdom. The VVD can live with that package. In fact, you would almost think that Mr Cameron has shopped in the VVD election programme, because he wants more competition, austerity of social security and an growth model, which is also in our election programme. He doesn't want to index the child benefit anymore. Those are, like the red card procedure, proposals that we support. So, apart from the efforts to keep the UK in the EU, we agree with the UK's proposals. That is why I agree with Mr Voordewind's question as to whether these measures will apply not only to the United Kingdom but also to the Netherlands. In fact, what is the government's view that, if the United Kingdom leaves the EU unexpectedly after the referendum, this package should apply in Europe? I'd like to get a response to these two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr Mulder made a wonderful pro-European speech. I congratulate him on that; it is good to hear it. However, the VVD is very enthusiastic about the British's proposals. Does the VVD want all proposals taken over at all costs? Then I'm a little worried, because we're sending our prime minister to that summit tomorrow. We know our Prime Minister as a smooth negotiator, who sometimes wants to be involved with other parties. So Cameron simply gets his sense at the expense of all kinds of things that we in the European Union have now settled properly. Is this for the VVD a blank check for the prime minister, just "go with that banana"? Is there any criticism of the free movement that is important for the economy, or is it simply a good thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u68	I did say it. A large part of the proposals can come out of the VVD's election programme: the growth model, child benefit, more competition, fewer rules. The only question we have left concerns the level playing field for the banks; we must be careful of that. There is a discussion about this: what is Britain doing in this area? Otherwise, the package looks pretty good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u69	Yeah? The same applies to the British's proposal to discuss the decisions taken by the euro area as a non-euro area country? The VVD is okay with that, too? The VVD is often afraid of transferring sovereignty. This is also a form of transfer of sovereignty. You let the pound talk about the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u70	You have to be careful with that, but we can embrace the points I have just mentioned: sovereignty, social security, competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u71	That point that you should be careful with is, of course, important at the negotiating table tomorrow. I think this is how it's gonna go. Cameron says, "I want a deal." Our Prime Minister sits there and thinks, "Well, that's actually a good idea; I'm from the VVD, I like that." He's just gonna let this pass. So the VVD's gonna let that happen today? Does the VVD agree that the British can talk to us about the euro area, or does the VVD draw a line somewhere? Otherwise, it's a blank check.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u72	I just mentioned the space the Prime Minister has. It's too easy what D66 does. D66 talks about blackmail by the United Kingdom. It has to come from both sides. You cannot say here: I am all against it, ready; then the United Kingdom has to get out. That's too easy. You should think of something that will help both the European Union and the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. You can't just say it's blackmail, shame. My group believes that it is wise to keep the United Kingdom on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u73	It's a little opportunistic, I'd almost say. Mr Mulder said that it was the proposals from the VVD's election programme and that the VVD could therefore agree. The simple question, however, is the following. What if next week Poland turns to the EU and the Netherlands and says: we are leaving the European Union if the rules are not addressed and Poland is not given more freedom in the media? What does the VVD say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u74	I should not go into that, because then I will give the Poles an idea. So I think it would be unwise to answer that question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u75	This what-if question is very relevant. The VVD says that we must keep the British at all costs and that we must talk about this. The VVD says that things are also being proposed that it wants and that we must therefore go along with them. But surely as the largest government party, the VVD has a greater responsibility? Then it must not only check whether it agrees with what the British are proposing, but also look at the precedent? How will other countries within the European Union deal with this later? Are we not getting a race to the bottom, which actually means that the European Union is getting more and more undressed, so that we are less and less united and the European Union may eventually fall apart? That's not what the VVD wants. I would therefore ask my colleague to deal with this. What does it mean that we are now negotiating with the United Kingdom? Can other countries claim this? Can other countries also express their wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u76	It's unwise to say that. The situation in Great Britain is as it is. Mr Verhoeven called that an election stunt. Yes, I can indeed say that Mr Cameron is playing a high game. The British call that brinkmanship: going down the edge of the abyss to get something in. The question is whether it's good Brinkmanship. That's gonna have to prove it. I do not want to give other countries the idea of doing this, but that is of course up to those countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mr Mulder says that he is going to give ideas to other countries, but he should not overestimate himself. I think this idea's been alive for a long time. If they see how successful the United Kingdom can be in these negotiations, then they might as well do so. I'll finish, Mr. Chairman, because I can't get through this with questions. The VVD colleague is blowing it off. I'd like to give him to be very careful with what he's giving away. Because negotiating with the knife on the throat usually makes you show others that you are weak and that they too can bring in what they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u78	What is happening in this Parliament is also being followed by other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u79	I have said it before: people play big games. Also for the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom this is an all-or-nothing game. You may wonder if that's wise, but it's happened now. That is the situation we are dealing with now. I'm going into migration. Last week, Thursday evening, there was a lot of talk about this. The VVD is deeply concerned about the expected spring peak in the asylum stream. It is time for this stream to take off, now that the limits of capacity for society have been reached. The VVD has been advocating the agreement between the EU and other countries on the reception of refugees in its own region for a year. That is why we are also in favour of a European solution with Greece and Turkey: reception in the region, hotspots, return and a NATO reinforced border and coastguard. Anyone who wants open borders in Europe must guard the external borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u80	In this connection, how does Mr Mulder view the actions which Turkey, to which we are approaching, is now taking against the Kurds in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u81	We are not happy about that, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u82	In Mr Mulder's view, what should this mean for the planned reopening of negotiations with Turkey as of April?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u83	A lot of words were said about this last week. Mr Voordewind just quoted all my group chairman who said about Turkey: never. So that's clear. At the same time, we need Turkey. If you want to solve the migration issues, you can't escape Turkey. So you'll have to keep drinking coffee or tea with Turkey and point out its responsibilities, whether you like it or not. We need it to solve the asylum problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u84	Does the VVD believe that, in these circumstances, in which Turkey violates all international standards and values, Turkey should be given the signal that accession to the European Union can be renegotiated by April?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u85	A great deal has been said about this too. We should not negotiate with the accession criteria. My group chairman has never said 'no', so in that respect it is clear what the VVD thinks about Turkey's possible accession to the European Union. However, we must continue to talk to Turkey, because we need it. But we must not negotiate with the criteria and we must not take any further steps towards accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr Mulder says: no further steps towards accession. I would like to remind him that the accession negotiations will be reopened by April. Last week we did not have the case that Turkey is going to bomb itself on Syria against the Kurds, while the Netherlands is training the same Kurds in Iraq. Mr Mulder then says: yes, sorry, we need the Turks. And he also says here that, from April onwards, we will be negotiating with the Turks again, the opening of chapters is called concrete, about just one word: 'accession'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u87	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The VVD said "never" last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u88	On the basis of that firm statement of the VVD, because that was one last week, it is also obvious that the Netherlands would stop paying the pre-accession fees. From 2014 to 2020, we are paying Turkey 4.5 billion dollars in negotiating money for business, such as democracy and human rights, which is now making things worse. Does the VVD agree, after that firm statement last week, that we should look at those pre-accessional fees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u89	You have to keep those two things apart. We are clear about accession. At the same time, you must note that we need Turkey. So before you put pressure agents, you need to think about where you want to come out. We know that in terms of EU accession. But we need them. You can say we have to do this or that, but does that help solve the other big problem? That's the big question. That's the trade-off you have to make. It's often not and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u90	When it comes to the refugee problem, I understand that. The European Union has designated the 3 billion for this, so it must also be used for this purpose. It is a good thing that this amount is paid in instalments so that we can see if that happens. But last week the VVD stated that Turkey could never become a member of the European Union. We have earmarked EUR 4.5 billion for Turkey to become a member of the European Union. How does Mr Mulder rhyme with these two things? If you already know the outcome is that it shouldn't be a member, isn't that money thrown away? That's what the pre-accessional fees are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u91	The world isn't as ideal as you'd like. We do not want Turkey to join the European Union, but we do need it for another problem. Then you have to be careful what you do. You must be clear about this accession and, for the rest, consider carefully when it is wise to use what means of pressure. If only the world were as black and white as Mr Voordewind would want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u92	We might have had a whole different world, but we wouldn't have had that. This is linked, but I'm not tying it up. These accession funds, which amount to 4.5 billion, are intended to lead Turkey to the European Union. I'm not making that link. Look, you can have several reasons to keep the relationship with Turkey open, but to keep talking to Turkey you can also use other instruments, such as bilateral treaties or European treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u93	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u94	My question is: why does Mr Mulder separate these two things, the accession fees and membership of the European Union, when these are actually linked?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u95	I just made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u96	The VVD Group has sunk quite deeply by saying that we need Turkey, that we need the Turkish tyrant Erdogan. What kind of bullshit is that? Of course, we should not rely on him or the EU. Now my question. Unfortunately, the cabinet also depends on Erdogan. Today, in a letter, it even declared itself willing to take asylum seekers from Turkey. What does the VVD Group think about that? I hope they will give the Prime Minister a whistling back on this point, because we are already taking over refugees from Italy and Greece, and now Turkey is joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u97	The question is what the ideal solution is. The PVV starts with closing the borders. I already told you what this cost. You can also look at it physically. 400,000 vehicles cross the border a day. So these are going to be rows of vehicles and trucks. Our ideal solution is to try to solve it with Greece and Turkey. Let's try that first. That's what we're talking about. This solution is preferable many times over dense borders, with rows of lorries at the border and all the economic consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u98	That is not the beginning of an answer to my question. Does the VVD group agree with the cabinet that we should take asylum seekers from Turkey or not? If that's the case, how many are there supposed to be? What does the VVD think? 50,000? 100,000? 150,000? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u99	The latter has often been mentioned. Is it wise to give an exact number? No, because then it's about the number. If you want to have a solution for Europe with quotas, you will have to take over refugees, but, and there is the reservation, then the unbridled migration across the Aegean must first be resolved. That's the first condition. The question is whether this will succeed at this European summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u100	I ask two very simple questions. Does the VVD agree that refugees are being taken over from Turkey or not? If so, how many? Then Mr Mulder says: but then it is about numbers. The VVD Group must have an opinion on that, right? Come on! It's time for her to think about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u101	It's been tried to pin it on a number before. It has often been debated, but it is unwise to do so. Otherwise, I've already answered those questions. Finally, I would like to respond to a question from, I believe, the CDA's colleague, about Visegrád. How does the government view what the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary are doing with the closure of the border with Bulgaria and Macedonia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u102	I had hoped that Mr Mulder would go into more detail on what is to be done with regard to NATO's operation in the Aegean. Can I have a vision from the VVD on whether or not NATO should actively help to send boats back and, if not, whether NATO should be helping to save drownings in that sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u103	As far as the VVD is concerned, NATO helps send boats back, and if there is a drowning man, you can't let them swim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u104	So both. In any case, there must be a pushback towards Turkey of migrants moving towards Europe, even when it has not yet been established that Turkey is a safe third country, and in the meantime, do people's lives need to be saved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u105	Yes. We want a pushback. So back to Turkey if you get caught in the Aegean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u106	I have thought for a moment about Mr Mulder's speech. I believe that there is some kind of imperfection in that speech, some kind of inconsistency, and I would like to ask Mr Mulder about that. First, he says that the European Union is worth 50 billion in trade and income. That's great. Then he says: I give the Prime Minister a blank cheque to negotiate tomorrow to keep the British, because we think it is such good plans. I do agree with Mr Klaver; is it not right to open the door to Europe falling apart at the expense of the 50 billion that Mr Mulder considers so important? That is what other countries are going to do. So isn't there a tension field there? I would ask Mr Mulder to go into this in more detail in order to clarify this as the largest party in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u107	We are a government party and we are not waiting for countries to leave the EU. However, now that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has said so, you called it a stunt, I call it a high game, you have to deal with that situation. You can't take it back. In this situation of high-level play, we believe it is important that the United Kingdom stays with us. There's a price to it. We don't think that price is so high. I already outlined that they were proposals that could have come out of the VVD election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u108	I say then: the next step is that all kinds of other countries can come up with all kinds of different wish lists, of which the VVD and certain countries will be able to say that the price is too high, thus creating a real danger of the break-up of the European Union, as Timmermans has also outlined. I'd like to hear from the VVD if that danger is well thought out at her party office. I hear a kind of cheer story about the Brexit, but there are five other countries in the finch rope. Then I would like to know from the VVD whether she has thought about some countries that are going to the Prime Minister and say: I would also like to sign a deal next week on this, this and this, with the cross. Then, by the way, the Prime Minister has already signed the cross once because you gave him that blank cheque.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u109	The situation is as it is. The position of D66 is actually easy: we want to keep them, but we do not want to make a concession. It can't be both. Here's what's going on. We'd like to keep them on board. Great Britain is playing a big game, you know, because it is going to come out of the referendum. So I don't recommend a country to do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u110	I suggest that you come back to this in the second term, because that is talking back and forth...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u111	It was always in threes, Mr. Chairman. You're changing the rules of the game now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u112	No, no, I haven't agreed to anything with you, and this has been discussed enough. I give the floor to Mrs Maij of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr. Chairman. Every time we stand here in a debate on the eve of a European summit, it seems as if the time has come for European cooperation. Now it's over. But unlike previous debates, we now see that there is movement on those important dossiers that we are going to talk about, those two lingering files of migration and the UK. It is really important for the Union to move together. On the world stage, as individual Member States, we are small, perhaps even null and void. In addition to powerful political and economic countries such as China and the US, we can only act as a block. When we look at the unrest around Europe, in North Africa, in the Middle East and on the eastern border of the Union, I do not understand that there are political movements that are diving away and want to retreat like a snail into a kind of lonely brittle house. A country such as Russia is trying to break up the Member States of the Union with skill. Where is the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, on the eve of the European summit? He's in Moscow visiting Putin. How does the government feel about that? We must act together as a Europe. We must show urgency and destiny and work together in the interests of us, the citizens. The PvdA does not want a Europe of closed borders, but a Europe that together implements practical solutions for refugees, which is shoulder-to-shoulder and which offers a great deal of humanitarian aid and makes the influx manageable. To this end, we must urgently focus on what we have agreed on: relocation, the creation of hotspots and the creation of safe and legal routes for refugees. Facing the refugee crisis in particular is now the acute challenge. How can we protect and offer a perspective to millions of people who can't go back home? How can we prevent people from dying on the run to that protection and that perspective? How can we offer that protection and perspective without it getting over our heads, the recipient countries? The PvdA has long advocated a common European approach. What progress has been made in the last month? What is the situation with regard to the agreed relocation of asylum seekers and the creation of hotspots? The PvdA regrets that for many European Member States, the European approach is becoming more and more like the closure of borders. Everything seems to be aimed at making a deal with Turkey. But how exactly are these talks with Turkey going? Is there any insight into improving protection and perspective and decent standards for asylum seekers in Turkey? This is necessary if Turkey is to be regarded as a safe third country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u114	How does the PvdA Group assess, given the conditions that the leader of the PvdA in his plan to send refugees back to Turkey to the Turks, such as changing some laws, the statements of the Minister of Defence? The Minister of Defense says that this pushback, just as it was embraced by the VVD, is in order to return refugees to Turkey and that an agreement has been made with the Turkish Government on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u115	Turkey can only be regarded as a safe third country if it meets some of the conditions that I have just mentioned. At this point, it's still difficult. This does not mean that Turkey is not in the process of taking steps towards meeting those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u116	We agree on the latter. Let me just make it clear that Mrs Maij and I went to work together a few years ago in southern Turkey. We have seen how much the Turks do when it comes to receiving refugees. I'm sure that deserves a great deal of appreciation. But how does the Labour Party feel about the fact that the Minister of Defence says that Turkey is not a safe third country by our definition, but that we agree that NATO should start to ensure that people are sent back to the Turkish coast?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u117	It's good if NATO helps prevent people from drowning. And it is good that the NATO people who are being picked up right off the coast go back there if that's a few hundred meters. What exactly this NATO intervention is going to propose is now the most important thing. And, after all, Turkey is also a Member State of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u118	In fact, Mrs Maij is talking about a few hundred metres in the Turkish waters. If they're stopped there, they have to go back and not out there anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u119	I would very much like to ask the question of how exactly this is to be completed and then to make my opinion on it. First of all, it is important to ensure that people are saved and not drowned in the Aegean. If NATO can contribute to this and also to the protection of borders, that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u120	I have one more enlightening question. It is of course a difference whether they are still sailing in Turkish waters or in the Aegean Sea. When they sail in the Aegean Sea, we just heard from the VVD, they have to go back to Turkey. But the Aegean Sea is one of the international waters. According to international law, people can apply for asylum in the country under whose flag the ship with which they are arrested sails. What does the Labour Party want now? Does it want people to be sent back from the Aegean to Turkey, which is not yet a safe country, or does it want people to be able to move on to an island in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u121	I do not know exactly about the geographical indication of the area there, but I think that the Aegean is just the area, and so is the area bordering the Turkish coast. I have made it very clear that I would like to know from the government exactly what this NATO intervention means, what the proposal is. Turkey is also part of NATO. What exactly is the purpose of these ships? Are these ships going to provide protection there, are they going to do so in the same way as, for example, the Mare Nostrum intervention? Or is it just supposed to stop people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u122	I understand that the Labour Party is asking questions, but I am asking for the opinion of the Labour Party. You can make a very clear separation between Turkish waters and international waters. You can indicate a very clear dividing line. In those Turkish waters NATO could provide assistance and send the people back to Turkey, but if a boat is outside Turkish waters, then they are entitled to an asylum application.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u123	If they ask, that could be the case. To continue with this, we are looking forward to spring with great concern, as more people will probably try to go to Greek islands in the Aegean. We must protect those refugees, but it must also be manageable. How can we deal with this in a practical and humane way? In particular, the PvdA calls for a legal and safe route for refugees. Last week we also heard that Chancellor Merkel really wants to take some steps in this. How and when? So far, there's nothing on the annotated agenda. The PvdA thinks it's an important point. As I said in reply to the questions put by Mr Voordewind and Mrs Gesthuizen, I would like to know exactly what the purpose of this NATO intervention is. What is the role of the Greek and Turkish border guards in these coastal waters? We have seen the answers to our parliamentary questions about the situation on that other border of Greece, the border between Greece and Macedonia. Minister Koenders was there this weekend. We read that there seems to be enough shelter now and that the situation has improved somewhat. Can the government confirm that? To what extent has there been progress in the discussions with all the other Member States that are currently working there, for example the Visegrád countries? What is the precise situation at the border between Greece and Macedonia? Then Turkey. Colleagues have already spoken about it. The situation in Turkey is very much in the spotlight these days. The country also has domestic problems and seems to become increasingly involved in the Syrian conflict. Turkey is crucial to this dossier. And Turkey is also an EU candidate country. Yesterday, PvdA MEP Kati Piri presented a critical report to the European Parliament. The PvdA is deeply concerned about the situation in Turkey, particularly in the south-east of Turkey. There has been an enormous increase in violence in recent months, leading to many civilian deaths and internally displaced persons. Is the Netherlands prepared to address this situation at the summit and also in talks with Turkey? In the European talks with Turkey, we must also bear in mind that the situation regarding freedom of the press in Turkey has really got worse. The situation for journalists is more complicated every day in Turkey. Locking up journalists for life is simply unacceptable. Will the Netherlands, as President of the EU, continue to address these abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u124	Does Mrs Maij consider it justified to open chapters in these circumstances and resume accession negotiations with Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr Buma has already put the question to Mr Mulder. At that time I thought: we have been negotiating with Turkey for a long time. Those negotiations were opened under the Presidency of the Netherlands in 2004, under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Balkenende, your Prime Minister Balkenende. We are going to take the next step in this, but that does not mean that these negotiations have been concluded or stopped and that they are now to be reopened. However, a further step is being taken, as has already been announced in a number of letters from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u126	However, it is inconceivable that Europe should say to that country: it will all be, you will bomb the Kurds, there will be deaths in Eastern Turkey, but we will start again with you on Turkey's accession to the European Union. I would like to draw attention to what Mrs Maij has said about Turkey. It is not even a country that she believes refugees can live safely there. She doesn't think it's a safe country. Why didn't these negotiations take place? Because the human rights situation deteriorated. It is not without reason that those chapters were not opened. Then Europe and the Netherlands will not be able to reopen the negotiations with good decency and signal that Turkey is taking another step towards accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u127	I have a different approach to this from Mr Buma. It goes without saying that I have also indicated this with freedom, freedom of the press, freedom of expression under this government in Turkey. It's getting worse. The situation of the Kurds in south-east Turkey is not good either. But that means that you have to discuss these issues with a country that is a candidate country. The framework in which negotiations are taking place is not a non-binding framework. I would even be very pleased if we could open the chapters on the rule of law and on democratisation. These are the chapters and the elements on which Mr Buma and I agree that Turkey must take very great steps. This should not be done without obligation, but within those frameworks and in accordance with the standards that we as a Europe would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u128	Now Mrs Maij pretends that we are opening these negotiations because it is so good to talk to Turkey about human rights. But it's just business, isn't it? The trade has been: Turkey is stopping refugees and then we are going to talk about accession to Europe and visa freedom. The fact that Mrs Maij says that it is so good for human rights has simply not been the criterion at all. She's gotta be honest about that. It's trade. The CDA's theorem is that you should never bargain with the basic principles of your rule of law to get this kind of trade right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u129	Refugees aren't strawberries. It's really not a trade. We are talking about two very different things. This is about finding a solution to the migration crisis with each other while remaining in dialogue with Turkey. Of course, there is a government, which was part of Mr Buma's political family not so long ago, which we are not very happy about now. At the same time, there are also a lot of people in Turkey, there is a population in Turkey for whom I would like if we could ensure that human rights, democracy, freedom of expression can take place in accordance with our European standards and values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u130	This is secretly my fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u131	I didn't meet with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u132	That's true. Mrs Maij is now saying that it is so good that we are going to talk to Turkey about human rights. But reality is completely different. That country's slipping. That is not the time when Europe can say that we are going to work towards membership. Of course we need to talk about human rights. It always has to be. The Prime Minister didn't do it last. That would have been the moments. He won't. In reality, we are going to reopen accession negotiations in April. If Europe takes its standards seriously, we will tell Turkey that it cannot. Then I would like to say a few words about trade. It shouldn't be a trade. But it is very simple: Turkey has said that it is prepared to stop refugees when Europe is going to talk about accession and visa liberalisation. I call that business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u133	Accession negotiations with Turkey were opened under the previous Dutch Presidency at the end of 2004. Since then, steps have been taken. Sometimes that went very slowly and nothing happened at all. At other times, things are getting better. I honestly believe that it is right for the Turkish people to talk about freedom of expression. So I would also like to ask the government whether it would not like to ignore this and raise this in their talks with the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u134	I'll do a brief interruption at once. Mrs Maij was very critical of Turkey just now in her speech. She was like her colleague, who is rapporteur in the European Parliament. But how does that relate to the plan of its political leader, which implicitly assumes that Turkey will not be a safe country in the foreseeable future? I would like to see Mrs Maij explain that tension field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u135	A safe third country? Indeed, and I think we should all want to work towards that, to ensure that the 2.7 million refugees currently in Turkey get a good roof over their heads, protection and perspective. That is the purpose of being a safe third country. I hope that we will all work towards this, and that we will ensure, for example, that the EUR 3 billion promised jointly by the European Member States is used to this end. Then I come to the UK and Brexit. That is a subject of a different order, because it is something Cameron called on about himself at the time when, as Mr Verhoeven said, he did his election stunt and perhaps even won the elections by ensuring that there would be a referendum. But what exactly is it about? It took us quite a long time to know what Mr Cameron wanted. It is still not quite clear and still holds some cards in the sleeve to finally ask a little more or less of the Members of the European Parliament. The PvdA welcomes the fact that Cameron and Tusk seem to agree, but we have a number of critical comments to make. The EU is not a vehicle that you can just unpack and dump if you don't want it anymore. The EU Member States have joint agreements and common principles. The PvdA does not want an EU of Prime Minister Cameron, which is confined to a single market and therefore only to a single market for business and a great deal of freedom for its own British financial institutions. How are we going to keep the UK going? On the contrary, we want the financial institutions to become more responsible and to behave more decently. We also do not want to exclude discrimination in the EU and some EU citizens as a kind of second-class citizens from all social services. That's a bridge too far for the PvdA. We also want the government to make a commitment to this in the next few weeks. The emergency braking mechanism, as it is now, should really remain intended for exceptional situations. We read that the Dutch Government is open to the proposal in the agreement, but what are the limits in the limitation? The PvdA wishes to clarify the position of workers in the UK labour market. Is the minimum wage too low for the minimum level of living in the UK? Does the British Government, in fact, use the inward benefits for business, so that workers can be paid far too low? Wage must also be a decent wage, which can guarantee workers a minimum standard of living. The PvdA would also like to know exactly how this emergency braking mechanism works. Who decides on what grounds to pull the emergency brake? The Commission, the Council, acting by a qualified majority or unanimously, or only the Member State requesting it? How does the government assess the EU's forces? How does the government fulfil its role as President this week in order to ensure that we achieve this? The PvdA considers it important that the Netherlands should also make an effort to re-examine the labour mobility package in the overall agreement with the British: the package against labour exploitation and displacement in the European Union, which ensures equal pay for equal work in the same place. We do not see this in the Dutch position. Is this getting involved in the conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u136	It is logical that the PvdA is critical of the section on the position of migrant workers and the limitation of their rights. Mrs Maij was talking about the next few weeks in a nutshell. However, there is a chance that Cameron will let it come to it and just want to make a deal on Thursday. What is the PvdA doing today to draw a clear line in the sand? The VVD likes it all. He gave me a blank check. If we want to be critical of the British, it will have to come from the PvdA. So what's the PvdA gonna do today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u137	I understand that this is the first line and that secondary or implementation legislation will then have to be introduced, which will, in some cases, continue to fulfil the somewhat vaguely defined objectives. I would like to know how the government, I hear the Prime Minister say yes, so the fact is already recognised that it deals with the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u138	I find that one-two between the Prime Minister and Mrs Maij rather worrying. We say that on Thursday we will agree to the main lines and then we will save the day in the implementation stages. This does not seem to me to be the right way to introduce a brake, which the PvdA seems to want when it comes to removing rights from migrant workers. I call on Mrs Maij today to be a little sharper towards the Prime Minister, otherwise he will talk to Cameron tomorrow with a blank cheque and we will have a package on Friday that no one will be happy about. Mrs Maij has that on her conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u139	Let me get this straight. The cabinet doesn't answer until after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u140	I would not like to give an answer on behalf of the Prime Minister at all. I think I just drew a clear line. I wonder how the government will react to this. I have made it clear that the package of social conditions and, as I have already mentioned, the issue of labour mobility will also be part of the discussion here. Labour mobility concerns Commissioner Thyssen's package, which is still somewhere nice, with which we try to prevent or at least address labour displacement and labour exploitation, which is apparently also the problem in the UK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u141	Finally, if I may, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u143	It's simple. On Friday, the Volkskrant will probably be on the mat with Mrs Maij and it will say: deal closed and so on, including the part of restricting the rights of migrant workers. So what's the PvdA gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u144	I've got six newspapers on the mat, and there's always something else in there. In this respect, it is rather complicated to draw precisely the first conclusion on this basis. Sorry, I lost your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u145	What are you going to do if a deal is made that includes restricting the rights of migrant workers, in line with the British course? What do you do? Do you agree or will you apply implementation corrections?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u146	According to the texts as indicated by the Commission, everything falls within the rules of the current Treaty. This means it's really just an emergency brake. I would like to know when this emergency brake will be applied and that it will not become a 'free for all' and certainly not a 'freeriders' mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u147	Can I have that last sentence in Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u148	No. I kind of liked it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-5.u149	You thought it was obvious. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The cabinet will answer later.
