ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Martinair's MP495 flight crashed at Faro, Portugal on 21 December 1992. It was an indescribable tragedy for the victims and their families, but also a tragedy for our country. Many have experienced those days full of horror and pain and have sympathized with the families. 56 people were killed and more than 100 were seriously injured. Since then, the cause of the disaster has been questioned by rapid conclusions and reports that are not unambiguous. The next of kin are more than 23 years later with a new judicial investigation in search of the true facts. The program EenVandaag and the news site NU.nl reported again shocking facts about the disaster last Saturday. The maintenance technician stated that the aircraft was suffering from technical defects. The replacement of the landing gear was postponed to three times. I quote the mechanic: "In the end, under pressure from Martinair Operations, which I believe was also the lead of Martinair, we granted the third postponement. A very urgent and urgent request was made," the technician said. According to lawyer Jan Willem Koeleman, who assists the families of the disaster, experts have been silenced by Martinair. This would apply, among other things, to an international aviation expert hired by Martinair, but who came up with unpleasant conclusions for society. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Firstly, does she recognise these sounds of lawyer Koeleman and the maintenance technician about withholding information and what does this mean for the conclusions of the then investigation? Secondly, I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether the report is correct that a large part of the investigation into the disaster, which is now in the National Archives, can only be seen in 2073 and that the content remains secret until then. Is that correct and, if so, why is this classified as state secret? Thirdly, is it true that the archives of the former Aviation Council on this dossier remain closed until then? If so, what is the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. In view of the attention given to the Faro disaster of 21 December 1992 last week, I can very well imagine that this is another serious problem for the victims and their families. I would like to share the sympathy with them expressed by Mr Monasch on behalf of the Chamber from my position. If an aircraft accident or disaster occurs, it is indeed important that research is carried out. Since this is an international sector, there are also international rules for this, including with regard to who is leading the investigation. That was Portugal in this case, because it was the country where the investigation took place. This also applies to the possibility, for example, for the Netherlands as a country concerned to participate and provide information. The American National Transportation Safety Board was also involved, because that is the country where the plane was built. There's been a Portuguese final report. That's public. The Dutch contribution to that report is attached to this report. This is also publicly available, but the international convention on how this type of investigation is conducted also provides that the contributions of the various parties remain, in principle, secret, unless the court takes a different view. That has a reason, as can be seen in Annex 13 of the Treaty. So that is not a Dutch choice; I think it is very important to say that here. This is done because, in principle, everyone wants to participate in that independent research and also to have critical matters say, sometimes about their own society. People should be able to do that with, in fact, a form of source protection. For this reason, the research data, the underlying data that we have, have been kept in the Dutch case in the National Archives. The year 2073 has more to do with our own legislation, because it has even been established internationally that that information remains secret in any case, unless a judge decides, for muffled reasons, for example because there is serious negligence, that that information will still be made public. The Netherlands is very involved in the research. It's important to say that here. That investigation was ordered by the judge. Three independent experts have been appointed by the judge to look at a number of cases. Our ministry will do everything in its power to provide and translate the available information to the court. For the documents from the National Archives, which are not public under international rules on aviation research, the State had to ask the Portuguese authority for permission. Of course we did. Those documents were also given to the court. The judge therefore has all the documents at his disposal. In this way, we are really trying to cooperate as much as possible within the current treaty. I would like to end my speech by saying that I can very well imagine that, from their point of view, it is necessary for the next of kin to be able to continue this truth finding. That's their right. They are now before the courts, and that is, of course, a fact for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	That sounds like an answer to the question of more openness. If I understand the Minister correctly...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	Sorry, the Secretary of State. I will not anticipate matters of which I have no knowledge. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, the judge now has the documents under him and the judge can decide. I can imagine that the course of justice is public and transparent and that the documents are therefore also public. We are concerned with this treaty obligation, but is there also a possibility of removing secrecy within that treaty obligation? And that not only can it be done through the courts, but that if two governments are willing to lift that obligation, there is that possibility. Did the Ministry look into that? My question also raised the fact that new facts have emerged from the maintenance technician and from the international expert who has discovered data on behalf of Martinair and for Martinair, but which were displeasure for Martinair and which he subsequently had to withdraw. How does the Secretary of State view this in the context of the research carried out? Should the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, the successor to the Air Transport Council, not consider whether it is necessary to restart the investigation, as there are so many different information and so many different facts on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Monasch asks a rather long question about public access. I also understand why. The short answer to that is that this really is only up to the courts and not to the Netherlands or Portugal. This has to do with the international treaty of which the Netherlands is a member and, as I know, Portugal too. That Convention provides that only a court may decide whether it is necessary in the case in hand to disclose the documents constituting evidence. It is therefore not a question of political pressure. It's important to say that here. On the second point, I would like to point out that I really think it is necessary for employees who play an important role in safety to be able to do their work in a manner that is justified. It is not up to me at the moment to judge whether there has been undue pressure here. I would like to say two things to Mr Monasch. If there was a relationship with evidence of cases that were or should have been known to the Dutch Aviation Council, this could be involved in the investigation by the three independent experts. In the end, it's up to the judge to say something about that. I also assume that this will be brought to trial. At the moment, I cannot judge whether this is a fact that was already included in the Portuguese study. There are two issues involved. Portugal's research report only indicates in general terms that there were so-called "open maintenance tasks." The cases that were known are said to have had no effect on the aircraft's airworthiness. Whether that judgment also concerns the state of maintenance of the landing gear to which the mechanic referred in the broadcast is not clear to me, nor whether that relationship was actually already in the Portuguese investigation. However, I am prepared to do the same in order to have the OVV check whether this was included in the Portuguese investigation at the time. I'll let the Chamber know about that. It's a good thing that that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'm assuming the documents will be made public now that it's in court. If that is not the case, we will undoubtedly hear about it and we will certainly come back to it. I welcome the Minister's commitment to contact the OVV again on the basis of the new facts. We look forward to further information from the minister after her contact with the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	And the OVV is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Security Research Council. That's the successor to the Aviation Council, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	Again, it's up to the judge to decide whether or not that disclosure will be forthcoming. It could be, but it's not something I can influence. I want to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert. Am I saying it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	You say that very well. Thank you, Madam President. I hear this discussion and I hear Mr Monasch say: I assume that the judge will do this and this and that would be good. Of course, that's not directly up to us. We don't even know what the judge's gonna do. However, I understand that the Netherlands cannot do anything about it, when we feel that victims should be able to know what happened. There should be no ambiguity about that. I think the Secretary of State agrees. How can we ensure the future that such a treaty does not impose such an obligation? The CDA understands that there must be source protection and that you must be able to speak openly, but that does not mean that you must declare whole attachments confidential. We have seen that sometimes you can make something black in an investigation, which is also annoying. But those are still intermediate solutions. How does the Secretary of State view this for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	That is a question in a more general sense. Let me say first of all that I believe that the Dutch State should always ensure maximum truth when there is an aircraft accident involving it in one way or another. I think that's noblessely obligatory. At the same time, precisely in order to make this truth finding work, we have made international agreements through ICAO. Those agreements are not just meant to draw lessons for the future. They are also there to organize satisfaction through truth finding for the victims of a disaster or their next of kin. And those agreements are also intended to protect sources, such as airline carrier employees, who want to say things about how it didn't work properly or, in my terms, where something might not be right, and give them the opportunity to do so easily. If it becomes clear in advance that sources will always be made public and not protected, the tendency to cooperate will naturally decrease. So yes, I am in favour of maximum openness, but I am also, with Mr Van Helvert, in favour of careful truth finding where all involved feel invited to put that truth on the table. Sometimes it has to be behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	With understanding of all the nuances that the Secretary of State rightly raises, but also for Mr Monasch's questions, I have the following question. Would it not be wise for the Netherlands to make an effort to amend international conventions to which it is now bound in the future in such a way that a period of secrecy such as that of 2073 is a thing of the past? That period should be shortened to a reasonable period in which the objection does not arise that people do not dare to report and speak, but is not as long as is currently established under the international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	Again: that year 2073 has even more to do with our legislation for the National Archives than with the actual international regulations. It says in principle that the information remains secret forever, unless the judge decides otherwise. Whether it's wise to do something about it, I don't want to weigh it now. I would like Mr Elias' suggestion to take a look at me and take a look at it. If you wanted to change something about that, a whole international treaty would indeed have to be amended. I want to consider what the advantages and disadvantages are. I'm willing to report my findings to the Chamber when I return to her at a later date anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you.
