ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, the MPs and the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Child rapists need to be chemically castrated. That is the point I raised in general consultation. I'm talking about the toughest group, the child molesters, so types like Robert M. The Minister replied in the AO from the loose wrist that mandatory chemical castration is not legally possible. That seems strange to me. Politics makes the laws. If the majority wants something, a lot is possible. I therefore ask the Minister to take stock of the objections and see how we can remove them. I shall table the next motion for a resolution to that effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2003 research by forensic psychiatrist Corine de Ruiter revealed that 32 of the 94 offenders and rapists relapsed while they had been declared cured in a TBS clinic;]] [[Considering that the study "Effective interventions in general relational and sexual violence" shows that chemical castration can be effective;]] [[having noted that in the Netherlands a significant number of pedosexuals voluntarily have themselves chemically castrated;]] [[calls on the Government to identify any objections (legal, medical and practical) to a court-appointed punishment of compulsory chemical castration in case of release of child rapists, and to indicate whether and how such objections can be removed;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a statement on this subject for the budgetary treatment of Security and Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	When we had the general consultation last week, I had the impression that Mr Öztürk's party was obliged to castrate chemically coûte que coûte. Mr Öztürk is now tabling a motion asking for an inquiry. I would also point out that we have just received a letter from the Minister. Maybe he or the minister can still respond to that. To what extent does Mr Öztürk now abandon his desire to impose chemical castration? Or does he want that investigation because it's only after he finally determines a position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	I started by saying that child molesters should be chemically castrated. I'll stick with that. I wanted to table a motion on that, too. I would also like to say that the Minister and his hundreds of officials will not be answered by two pages until 7 minutes after this meeting started at 10.15. So he comes eight minutes in advance with two A4s. That's not neat and it's not correct. I therefore believe that I should table this motion, which states that there should be a more detailed examination and that all objections should be identified. In this way we can make the choice in the Chamber in a neat and pure way to make chemical castration possible. In the end, I will also table the motion on chemical castration, but I do not want to have a well-naïve debate. I want all the objections to be resolved in advance, including by external experts. This should not only be done by the minister's officials, who will not send a letter until 7:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	I wanted to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I see that she is not yet here. This will put an end to the Chamber's input. The Minister will have a few minutes to prepare his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Öztürk for tabling his motion. Perhaps it is a good thing that I should look back at the general discussion we have had on this subject. During this consultation, Mr Öztürk put the idea of compulsory chemical castration on the table. I told him there that our laws and regulations and international conventions prevent such a compulsory chemical castration. I also told him that such an obligation would be very complicated in many areas, including, for example, enforcement. So there really are too many hooks and eyes on it. Then there was a debate with a number of Members of Parliament. In that I said: I would like to take a look at this, but I do need more time than the time between the AO and the VAO. It is now clear, because I have written a good letter which has indeed arrived late in the Chamber; I admit that immediately. However, that letter was an emergency solution, because Mr Öztürk was not prepared to wait until I could come back to it in more detail in the progress report. I've been looking at this subject a lot in the last few days. I note that a comprehensive provision on coercive medication has been included in the disability convention which has been accepted by the Chamber very recently. The UN Committee states that coercive medication would absolutely not be allowed. I would like to give a very simple example of something which has been discussed very recently in the Chamber and which shows that there are major problems with this compulsory chemical castration. In the letter I also refer to the ECHR and the Constitution. I said to Mr van der Staaij that I am quite prepared to look at this subject in more detail and to give further details in the progress report on all these aspects. I am therefore also referring to the practical and medical aspects. I still have that willingness. I am now reading the text of the motion that has been tabled. So here's what I'm willing to do. In the progress report I will provide more parts of what I wrote in the letter I sent to the Chamber this morning. I will therefore include the disability convention. Perhaps I should take a look at how this is done in other countries of Europe. Mr Öztürk mentioned Poland as an example where this would be very well arranged. So let us look at what is going on there and how it relates to the ECHR. And how would a similar arrangement relate to our Constitution? This leads me to ask Mr Öztürk to hold this motion until the progress report has been published. Then he can judge whether what is in it is sufficient to meet what he needs. If Mr Öztürk does not want to do so, then I must advise against the motion, given this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is good that the Minister admits that he was too late to deliver these two A4s. He sent these at 10:07 a.m. I sense reluctance on the part of the Minister; I see a minister trying to stop the trial. If he didn't want to, he would have delivered those A4s yesterday. I have written a motion and sent it to all colleagues. The Minister has had plenty of time to send this letter. It is therefore not neat to send these at 10.07 a.m. Let's be honest about that. In addition, in his letter, the Minister only describes the negative and the oppositions, while in my motion I asked for examples such as those in Poland to be examined and also to try to indicate the directions of solutions rather than just dealing with negativity and opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	I do not fully understand this interruption by Mr Öztürk. I have indicated how the debate has gone and I have given every opportunity to give a proper response. However, Mr Öztürk did not want to listen and said no. It had to and would be done before the VAO and that VAO had to and would take place next week. I said then that it would be a very short note and that it would be sent shortly in advance. I wanted to be able to look carefully at it as it is not a simple subject. Mr Öztürk now reiterates his objection. I understand from his reaction that he's not holding the motion. Therefore, I strongly advise against the adoption of the motion. However, I do keep my promise that I will come back to this in detail in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Mr Öztürk, do you wish to respond? It's a VAO, but I'd be happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	There is one thing that comes to my motion and the Minister's commitment. I would ask the Minister to try to find out whether there are solutions in legislation and I ask him to look at examples such as those in Poland so that the Chamber can have a pure discussion rather than a well-naïve discussion. We want to have a clear discussion about what can and cannot be done. In that motion I support the Minister's story and I would like to extend it a little bit. I ask the Minister to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	I hear nothing but that Mr Öztürk is maintaining his motion. I do not recommend the adoption of the motion because of my commitment and I am happy to honour the commitment I made in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	This brings us to the end of this VAO about child pornography. The motion will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
