ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to both leaders. Mr Van der Steur is going to leave us. That'll be around the clock at 12.50. Perhaps then we will be ready or well advanced. It's 10:15 and we're gonna be looking at alcohol. As long as you don't talk about it. The next item is the debate on the alcohol lock. We have seven speakers from the Chamber. Mr Bishop has just added himself to the list of speakers. All speakers have four minutes' speaking time. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Helvert of the CDA group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants the alcohol lock back. The lock has to be returned to prevent more road victims, not because the lock is an end in itself. No, the alcohol lock is for the heavy alcohol offenders a targeted measure with promising results. The cabinet, this minister, has abolished the lock. It became too difficult because the Council of State indicated that the lock, as it was organized, was no longer allowed. But that doesn't mean the lock has to go. With Mrs Visser of the VVD, therefore, I have previously tabled a motion on behalf of the CDA which calls on this Minister to examine how the lock can be closed. The Minister's letter we received last week was disappointing. The Chamber asks the Cabinet to see how it can be done and we get the Minister's answer that he thinks he hasn't investigated it, but it thinks it's pointless. The Minister is not supposed to sit in the judge's seat. The minister has to make it possible in the law and a judge imposes a penalty. If a minister doesn't make it possible in a law, then a judge can never impose it, either, whether it's 30, 300 or 3,000 alcohol locks. The Court of Justice published yesterday that criminal lawmen themselves would be very pleased if they were given the alcohol lock in their toolbox to determine an appropriate level of penalty. In the Netherlands, about 100,000 heavy alcohol offenders drive on the road every day. They have 1.3 promille or more alcohol in their blood. You'll have at least half a crate of beer the night before. Every day there are 100,000 chronic drinkers on the Dutch roads. The CDA wants these people off the road. The Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (SWOV) indicates that chronic drinkers do not pay fines and driving cancellations. If they get a fine, they're gonna think, ai, bummer about that fine, but I can keep drinking. If they get a driving disqualification, they're gonna think, ai, ai, bummer about that driving disqualification, but I can keep drinking and driving. Because because there are no standing positions anymore, you'll never get caught, whether you're driving or not. Only the alcohol lock, SWOV says, offers an appropriate punishment for this. The criminal says he likes to have this tool in his toolbox. The alcohol lock works because it's the only medicine where the car just doesn't do it if you have too much alcohol in your blood. That is why the CDA now calls on the Minister to re-introduce the alcohol lock and organise it properly, to prevent further road casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. A small hard core of serious drink drivers appears to be difficult to tackle. The alcohol lock has proved its worth here, not only in the Netherlands, but also in other countries, such as Finland and Sweden. Driving with too much alcohol costs dozens of deaths and injuries in traffic every year. There are estimates of up to 140 road deaths per year due to alcohol, sometimes in combination with drugs. These are, of course, appalling figures. The PVV wants to drive with alcohol, but also drugs, strictly. By being strict, I mean first of all that the chance of getting caught must be increased. Because that is the most effective measure the government can take. The PVV wants much more enforcement and more alcohol controls. Not only at the exit of the parking garage of the Lower House, so members of parliament and journalists think: so, that Van der Steur is doing just as well. No, all over the Netherlands. Relapse alcohol drivers should be punished more severely. If necessary, the car must be taken away. It can't be that people with temporary driving disqualification because they've been drunk in the car get back in the car? Still, that seems to be very common. As far as we are concerned, the alcohol lock is a fine, proven effective measure to deal with drunken drivers who recur. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Minister wants to stop doing this. It is also incomprehensible that the road safety budget under this cabinet has fallen from 20 million in 2013 to 16.8 million for next year. The failure minister of the police, Mr Van der Steur, is busy to bully ordinary drivers by increasing the number of small flash fines, but he leaves the approach of drinkers. Can we have another minister soon, please? The alcohol lock program has been terminated by the Supreme Court due to legal regulations. The government can do two things: either apply the legal basis for this in criminal law or stop the alcohol lock. And what does Mr Van der Steur choose? Stop the alcohol lock. That's incredibly stupid, because there's not really a good alternative. The temporary denial of driving rights, i.e. the removal of the driving licence, does not even seem to deter notorious alcoholics. The numbers show that the hard core is getting back in the car. Then I'll come back to the odds: it's way too low. What happens to someone who, despite a disqualification from driving, gets behind the wheel again with too much alcohol? How long are you gonna go to jail for? The PVV is not convinced of the choice of the cabinet to terminate the alcohol slot program. The cabinet makes a joke of the Dutch police. We want the authority back. We want repeat drinkers who continue to commit serious offences to be dealt with much harder. We've got to raise the odds of getting caught. I am not talking about the chance of a decent car driver driving 5 km/h too fast on the highway, but about the chance of serious traffic cocks who risk the lives of innocent citizens by getting into the car with large amounts of booze. We have to deal with these people. On this point, I expect clear language and strong action from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a little anecdote. A few years ago I joined the police in Rotterdam-Zuid. We drove on a virtually empty road, where one car drove, which was pulled over by the men in front of the van; I myself sat in the back, as if I were a arrester. I was wondering why this was done. A woman over middle-aged got out of the car, who turned out to be completely drunk. She was on her way to work at night, in a nursing home. I was wondering if this was normal. The men told me this was normal. This lady, they said, is an alcohol addict and just leads her life, so she gets in the car too. With this example, I would like to emphasise that the problem of alcohol is a broad social problem, both in traffic and beyond. Today we're talking about the alcohol lock, so we're talking about alcohol and traffic. As far as we are concerned, one of the measures necessary for this is the inclusion of the alcohol lock in criminal law. I would also like to have a broader story today, as Mr Van Helvert has already clearly indicated where he stands in relation to criminal law. We fully support that plea. The Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid Verkeerheid) has done a research and three things actually came out. I would like a response from the Minister to those three things. The first is that better profiling is needed. You need to get a visual on the target group that's doing this. My example is a middle-aged lady, but the standard is a male aged between 30 and 40. If you're better at profiling, you're better at maintaining. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The second is that new preventive measures are needed. One example is Finland, where alcohol locks are also used through the addiction prevention programmes. How does the Minister view this? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The third point that the research points out is that a broader approach is needed. Other bodies that indicate that people have an alcohol problem should also be involved in solving the problem. I would also like to receive a response on this point. Then there's the industry. The car industry is doing everything it can to prevent casualties from happening the moment you have a hit-and-run with a person. Volvo is very active on this point. Tesla doesn't want anyone to die in a collision with one of his cars. These are all good ambitions, but what does the industry actually do in terms of alcohol prevention? I think that road should also be followed. There is still a great deal to be gained in terms of road safety. To what extent is the Minister prepared to motivate industry and to what extent are there initiatives worthy of support to prevent further misery in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. If you're gonna get behind the wheel with your drunken head these days, I really don't know what planet you're living on. If you don't know by now that you shouldn't, you've moved somewhere on another planet. It can't be that people get drunk and get behind the wheel again and again and then put lives of others in danger. The alcohol lock program prevented that. As far as the VVD is concerned, the alcohol lock programme is not an objective, but it has proved to be a very effective instrument both internationally and nationally. You just can't drive when you've been drinking alcohol. It will be legally true that it cannot be done, either because there are double penalties or because no individual consideration can be made, but socially it simply is not right. It just doesn't make sense that we can't use a means that we know works to keep drinkers behind the wheel anymore. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are looking as soon as possible for ways of including it in criminal law. We received a letter yesterday from the Minister with all kinds of objections and reservations, but as far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to find a solution, because we simply want to prevent drinkers from causing casualties. Every victim is one too many. In the meantime, however, we do have a problem, because we cannot impose an alcohol lock programme. If we look at the proposals put forward by the Minister, but above all by the Public Prosecutor's Office, when it comes to driving disqualifications, they are really insufficient in our view. If you didn't cooperate at the time of the alcohol lock program, you'd just lose your driver's license for five years. What is the proposal now? Two to seven months! I can't explain that. I therefore ask the Ministers: can we not increase these driving cancellations to five years? The other point is driving capacity. We know that a very small group of drink drivers are responsible for most road accidents. We're just about to see if anyone has an alcohol problem at 1.8 promille. At the alcohol lock program, that was 1.3 promille. Can't the ministers see if we can start a driving capacity test sooner? 1.3 promille could be a proposal. It could also be one promille. As far as we are concerned, we are more likely to see whether people are even able to participate in traffic or whether they have an alcohol problem. The VVD has already put forward proposals to see if we can do more in the context of prevention. Give the drink drivers who go wrong over and over again, an anklet if necessary or have them come to the police station every day so that they know that they are being watched. But also go see if we can confiscate the cars they own. Then we can sell them and then we can give the proceeds to the Victim Aid Fund. For example, there are many measures that you can take to at least indicate that we do not accept this. It is about penalties, but also about the use of police powers. I know of many examples where there is a passing accident and the police cannot use certain investigative powers. It is very difficult to explain to victims and relatives who want answers to the question of what happened but who want justice in particular. I understand the policeman saying help me solve this case. What can we do in the context of a personal approach and what can we do to make sure that these people are no longer able to get behind the wheel? And what can we do to ensure that the alcohol lock programme, which is simply a good tool, can still be introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. In 2015, for the first time in years, more road accidents occurred than in the previous year. In a substantial part of those fatal accidents, there was booze in play. Every year 75 to 140 people die in traffic because someone has drunk too much and is getting behind the wheel. SWOV's figures published this week tell us the following. Two thirds of all serious accidents caused by alcohol are caused by a relatively small group of heavy alcohol offenders. People who do not drink one glass too much, but who often have a structural alcohol problem. Traditional measures such as fines and driving cancellations do not seem to have any effect on this group of heavy alcohol offenders. A significant proportion of those 90,000 to 125,000 motorists still participate in traffic under the influence of too much alcohol. At least 45% of them are persistent in their behaviour and continue to drive with too much alcohol after being arrested by the police. Several foreign studies show that users of an alcohol lock are 60% to 95% less recurrent than drivers with driving deprivation. In short, the alcohol lock programme was a targeted measure with promising results. Now that that programme is no longer available, I would like to look together at effective and efficient alternatives, first of all, of course, to avoid much suffering. In their own words, my colleagues expressed their surprise at the fact that there are still people in the Netherlands who cannot deal with their own addiction. In addition, from this place in Parliament, I would like to ask anyone who knows people with alcohol addiction and who sees them leave a party by car, whether at work, a birthday or a marriage, to actively think along and prevent such a person from getting into his car if he is no longer able to think with his sanity that he can deliberately harm other people. In addition to the personal suffering of road accidents, it also costs society a lot of money, to be precise, EUR 12.5 billion, of which an estimated 0.8 to 1.8 billion is caused by heavy alcohol offenders. An improved approach to the alcohol lock for heavy alcohol offenders also leads to lower costs for our legal apparatus and to an improvement in health in general, with all the benefits of this. I therefore support the call made by a number of speakers for the programme to be included in criminal law. But SWOV mentions other measures that can help. Mr Hoogland referred to this in his contribution. Is the Minister prepared, in cooperation with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and civil society organisations, to draw up a plan to gather more background information on heavy alcohol offenders, and to use this information to ensure that this group's approach is as effective as possible? Reference has already been made to this point: in Finland, heavy alcohol offenders have been given the opportunity since 2008 to prevent the temporary intake of the driving licence through voluntary participation in an alcohol slot programme. Is the Minister prepared to offer the alcohol lock in the Netherlands on a voluntary basis and at a low cost in combination with an accompanying programme aimed at dealing with the problem? Finally, is the Minister prepared to engage with addiction care to set up programmes for the 30 000 addicts who report there every year to teach them how to separate alcohol and traffic?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about 100,000 heavy alcohol offenders, only 7,500 of whom are arrested. That's a very small percentage. The cost to society amounts to EUR 1.8 billion. Of course, those aren't small numbers. Let me be clear: the SP has never been in favour of the current alcohol slot programme. The program is very expensive, €5,000 for those affected, and was experienced as a second punishment. The device is also not always reliable and the wrong signal is that you can buy off exorbitant alcohol in traffic with an alcohol lock. If someone with so much alcohol still participates in traffic, we believe that a driving disqualification is better for a certain period of time, but the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid) has shown in its research which came out this week that a driving disqualification has no effect on that group of notorious alcoholics in traffic. My question to the Minister is whether he shares these conclusions of SWOV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	I refer to Mr Smaling's statement that you can buy off the alcohol lock program. I do not understand that statement, because the alcohol lock program is not imposed as punishment. That's what the whole discussion is about right now. It's a measure. Nor can you buy off the measure; the measure is imposed. So I do not understand very well why the SP Group is against the alcohol lock programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Council of State and the Supreme Court have now both said that there are double penalties. That's what we've always thought. We are in favour of punishment, but we do not think that the alcohol lock, as it now stands in practice, is ideal. Many people run into the lamp once, they say that of course; it may be that they are trivializing................................................................................................................................................................................................... So I am not against measures to do anything, but I would like to question here that this is really the most appropriate measure. That is why we are here today, so that is only useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Smaling said that the alcohol lock programme could be bought off. At least I want to make it clear here that you can't buy that off. That was one of the measures. You just had to do it. If you didn't want to cooperate, you'd just lose your license. Mr Smaling indicated that he would like to keep the alcohol lock programme. Is he in favour of including the alcohol lock programme as a measure and not as a punishment in criminal law to ensure that you can punish people, but that you can also avoid endangering other road users through the alcohol lock programme because other people are driving alcohol?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	I can summarize it as follows: we are for punishment. I believe that today we must also determine what should work best or what should be investigated in this respect. I look at the cost of the alcohol lock and also at the ways in which it can be bypassed: you can have someone else blow or you can take another car. There's a lot of holes in it. If you take the costs in addition to the fact that there are double penalties, I take statements from High Colleges of State seriously, for the SP Group, it is still the question of what works best. I'm not saying I'm for or against an alcohol lock program. Mr Van Helvert is going to table a motion, which we will support, which is aimed at how to control costs and yet introduce something like that. We support that, but I think that the timing of this debate is very good, and I commend Mr Van Helvert for that, even before he has asked me a question, especially now that SWOV's report is there. So sit down again, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	So much for Mr Van Helvert's interruption. Does he have anything to add to that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	No, these were fantastic words from Mr Smaling, Mr President. Nevertheless, I would like to present something to the SP. It consistently talks about disadvantages of the alcohol lock. Is the SP aware of the new alcohol lock? Anything that Mr Smaling just said wasn't right, for example, it wouldn't work well or you could have someone else blowing it with the new alcohol lock for a long time. Can the SP respond to this, so not to the former situation in the meantime, after all, there is no longer an alcohol lock issued in the Netherlands, but to the new situation in which you can no longer commit that fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	The technology is developing, that's obvious. I think Mr Van Helvert might be slightly more on top of that than I am. I take his point to heart. I think that we will perhaps get closer to each other in the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	I also have a question about the costs. The SP started the debate by mentioning the costs for society. Mr Smaling mentioned the amount of 1.8 billion, I believe. Immediately the SP switched to the remark that €5,000 is very much for the perpetrator. What is more important for the SP: that social costs are 1.8 billion or that the offender may also suffer from a measure imposed on him by his own actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	Both. That seems obvious to me. The cost of EUR 1.8 billion for society cannot be explained to the tax-paying citizen. The SWOV has come up with an unsub profile. Let's just call it "shit." There's a large group of people in there who probably don't have a lot to do. If you have to pay that amount as €5,000 or have to pay progressive fines, that proposal is also on the table, it will be that picking a bare chicken. We know exactly what that leads to, namely debt restructuring issues and piles of CJIB envelopes that are not being opened. That's not exactly a route either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	Indeed, that all sounds very dramatic and that often leads to really painful situations for individuals. How does the SP view the individual's responsibility? That's what chooses to ride with alcohol after all. That responsibility is contrary to the SP's view that the government does this to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	Some of the people regret having been behind the wheel with alcohol and take it upon themselves to have run into the lamp for never to do so again, but I'm afraid that among the groups that the SWOV portrays here, unfortunately, there are also people with such a personality that they don't have the control to leave behind the wheel if they shouldn't. Educational measures or other forms of help must be provided to get these people on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	I had stuck to the sentence: How does the Minister look at the idea of examining the alcohol lock programme in a new form? So that's basically what I'm doing to my colleagues. Can this be effective? It is also possible, as I have just said, to get in another car or to have someone else blow, but I understand from my colleague that some of this has already been dealt with. I do see the Minister of Security and Justice struggling in his letter of 5 October, because that does not really give rise to a choice. In the last paragraph, he also offers to investigate the penalty assessment better and then to submit it to the Public Prosecutor's Office how to translate it into criminal proceedings directives. Now I am not a lawyer myself; so I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees this concretely. The termination of the current alcohol lock programme is a logical consequence of the rulings of the Council of State and the Supreme Court. You just can't just put it next to you. The SP does question the immediate return of the driving licence to the group of people who would no longer be covered by the alcohol lock programme. Is it not necessary to approve these people first or to impose an educational measure on them? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally, the SP believes that every effort should be made to exclude people with too much alcohol from traffic. Does the law now offer sufficient possibilities for this? In addition to the Alcohol and Traffic Education Measure, we want a high level of promillage and recurrence to lead almost automatically to the recovery of driving rights. But apparently this doesn't stop some people from taking part in traffic. Then you come to an ultimum remedium, which is confiscating the vehicle. Is that negotiable for the directors, or does that go against basic property rights in such a way that it does not come at all im Frage? In the end, as far as the SP is concerned, this balance lies with the judge, but it must of course be put in a position that he can speak straight. That is the basis we must provide. That's my contribution. I was just wondering how they'd handle that at Minerva. Maybe that'll get us the silver bullet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. I have just considered limiting my contribution to a personal story about a situation in which an alcohol lock could have prevented great sorrow and deep misery, and could have saved society a lot of expense. Then I think of my nephew, who was killed on May 24th 2009 by an alcoholic who was also a repeater. I have given up on this and I would like to limit my contribution to a more business-oriented consideration. The SGP believes that we should not place the alcohol lock in the bulk. Research shows that the alcohol lock is a very effective method to keep drivers too often out of their cars. In other countries, when using an alcohol lock, the frequency of relapses was 65% to 90% less than in the case of driving cancellations. This positive effect will be even greater for the Netherlands, because we are also linking an accompanying programme to it. Indeed, a piece of guidance and education is needed. The measure alone is not sufficient. The rulers take the statements of the Supreme Court and the Council of State seriously and so it should be. But the result is that the cabinet wants to put the alcohol lock overboard, because it doesn't want to draw the wallet. As a result, the measure will only be imposed in a very limited number of cases because of the cost to the offender. That's right, that's not how it works. The supplier of the alcohol lock will not develop it for that purpose. The SGP doesn't want to go along with this. Transferring the instrument from administrative law to criminal law seems to us to be a good solution. The costs involved are a fraction of the costs of detention. If the government accepts its responsibility in this way, this measure is expected to be imposed annually in more than 1,000 cases. That's gonna make you feel better. Is that worth an investment of 5 million euros? The SGP says, "Yes, do it." The measure is more effective than a driving disqualification, especially if it takes into account the new developments surrounding the alcohol lock and especially if accompanied by an accompanying programme. Furthermore, the many accidents caused by drinkers cost society handfuls of money; the amounts have already been mentioned. RIVM has come out with a cost-benefit analysis this week. Alcohol-related road accidents hit hard every year by around €2.5 billion. Once again, I am not talking about the cost of the detention of the person convicted because of that crime. EUR 5 million for an effective alcohol lock falls completely into disrepute and is more than worth the investment, also because of the misery and grief that it can prevent. The SGP calls on the rulers to promote the more frequent retention of drink drivers and a much more robust approach. The alcohol lock must remain, even if it may cost us as a government an investment. It's more than worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u23	I give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. Like all Members of Parliament, I agree that alcohol cannot be used in traffic. I was therefore pleased with the instrument we had: the alcohol lock programme as it operated in administrative law. It has already been said by others that alcohol is one of the main causes of fatal road accidents. The Stichting Scientific Research on Road Safety (SWOV) indicates that about 20% of road deaths are caused by alcohol. These fatal accidents involve 70% of people who have more than 1.3 promille in their blood. It is therefore of the utmost importance that drinkers be dealt with strictly. This is not just about addicts who some people were talking about, but also about people like you and me who think after a party: well, I can get in the car with a couple of glasses, because it does not happen that often. We think the alcohol will be out of our blood by now. However, that is not the case. I've tested it myself several times, for example with glasses that indicate what you actually see when you've had a few beers. I can say that your ability to react reverses very quickly, even if you don't realize it yourself. So it's about all of us. Drinkers need to be tackled, both the heavy addicts and the people in our immediate vicinity. The ASP was a perfect tool to tackle drink drivers. It is not a punishment, it is a measure. After a sentence was imposed, the Central Bureau of Driving Certificates issued this measure. If someone wants to participate in traffic because they have to, for example because of work or for social reasons, then they can, but only under the condition that someone blows. After all, we want to make sure that they have no alcohol in their blood. In addition, we know that the driving licence is taken for a certain period of time, but also that it often takes more than two to seven months to get rid of alcohol addiction. That's why we chose for a longer time if someone wanted to participate in traffic. That's how the alcohol lock came about. Of course, there are always ifs and buts to it, for example the fact that you cannot make an individual assessment, but for us it was a very good tool to ensure that drinkers do not participate in traffic. It was a pity to see that the ruling of the Supreme Court meant that it was no longer an option to implement the ASP in administrative law. At that time, I contacted my colleague to see what we can do in criminal law. Maybe you can impose it as a punishment alongside other measures you can take. The Minister for Justice, Mr Van der Steur, will deal with this later. We considered whether we could transfer the measure one-on-one, because that was, of course, the easiest solution. However, there were many complex aspects to this. Once you're going to make an individual assessment, it's likely to be quite different numbers that are inflowing. After all, the judge also makes his judgements, including on the gravity of an instrument. In the Netherlands, we imposed the ASP on several thousands of people, but in Belgium, where they do it through criminal law, it was imposed on only 40 people. So you can see that the influx there is many times lower. If the influx is many times lower, it is complex to have this system at all. Those things need to be made, read and tested. You have to have people who can do that and who are available. You can't actually keep that system running anymore. We have seen this and have concluded that it is difficult to implement it. However, I have heard the Chamber clearly. All the spokesmen say, "Go check it out." Yeah, we're gonna do that again. That is what the Minister of Justice said in his letter. Then we'll have to look at other forms. I am thinking of an ASP light, which, for example, takes less time, or an ASP that may be subject to payment from the government. That would allow the judge to see it as a less severe punishment. Maybe we can think of a few more variants. We're gonna investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u25	The argument that it may be less often imposed by the judge and that it will therefore involve smaller numbers, which makes it difficult to find a supplier, I do not understand. The Netherlands isn't an island, is it? There are many other countries that do, such as Sweden, Finland and Belgium. Those manufacturers aren't alone in the Netherlands, are they? There's an international market for these devices, isn't there? There is also technological development. It is becoming increasingly easy to develop such systems electronically. This can't be an argument that lasts, can it? Take a look across the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u26	That is a fair question from Mr Madlener, but unfortunately that has not been the case so far. Indeed, markets are still very limited. When we applied in the past, there were hardly any parties who responded and wanted to deliver. For a market player, of course, there must also be a certain mass. This is applied relatively little abroad. I told you, there are about 40 cases in Belgium. It also happens in Sweden and Finland, but there it is under attack. The European Commission is considering whether or not to do so. What I find more interesting is the question of one of the Members of Parliament if you could look at what you can do in front of the cars. Anyway, that's for a later term. It's about the here and now. We are going to see how we can solve this for the here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u27	I just heard the Minister say that the European Commission is attacking the system in Sweden and Finland. So I would certainly not do it in a European context. That's all taking way too long. Just do it yourself. Just find a manufacturer who works across the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u28	Once again, you have to have the same system across the border and you don't. It's different everywhere. It is actually applied in almost no country. I am in favour of raising this issue at European level. In this context, Mr Hoogland wondered what industry is doing to prevent alcohol consumption in vehicles. I'd better get into that right now. That's been investigated in the past. In 2014, the European Commission looked at the preventive installation of alcohol locks and made this mandatory for industry. In 2014, it was found that social costs do not yet outweigh the benefits. This applies in particular to buses used for professional passenger transport, as this was discussed at the time. But in fact there are hardly any road accidents there and there is hardly any driving under the influence in that sector. At that time, however, it was said that it might be an idea for the longer term to have new generations of alcohol locks that are more effective and cheaper. That is what Mr Madlener says: new technological developments. However, they are not yet available. In my opinion, a new study is not going to yield one-two-three or new demands on industry either. What I can imagine is that I am going to talk about the Euro NCAP. Those are the stars for safe cars assigned to industry. I am prepared to discuss whether the alcohol problem can also be included in the star allocation system. Manufacturers taking measures in this respect............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In this way, it will be an advantage to take those measures. At least I will. That is my answer to Mr Hoogland's question and at the same time to Mr Madlener's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u29	I actually want to make sure that the Minister stays with us for a while. I heard her say that she liked the ASP, but that it was not allowed by the Council of State and that she started looking at it then and there were many complexities that came to light. The Minister also said: we heard the Chamber and so we are going to take another look at this. The motion on which the Minister said 'we're going to have another look', both ministers were wearing pants and dresses last year. In motion Fisher/Van Helvert (29398, nr. 518), the government was asked to see how we could blow up the alcohol lock. On this we received a letter back from the cabinet saying: we do not think that is so meaningful. Does the Minister agree with me that she should sit on the judge's seat when she says: I do not think they are going to impose it so much? Does the Minister agree with me that the judge is about whether or not he is imposing this and that the Minister is about making that possible in law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u30	The judge is always about the punishment. Minister Van der Steur can tell you that better than I can. Although the law lays down guidelines on the penalties for what offences, the courts have every opportunity to depart from them. We've had that investigated. Once again, the Minister who really is about it will say something about it himself. It then emerged that the ASP, with the way in which it is now designed, would probably not be imposed so often. If it becomes a punishment, five years of driving with an alcohol lock will be relatively heavy compared to, for example, two to seven months of withdrawal of the driving licence. That's what we got. I also read in the newspaper yesterday that a criminal said he wanted to have it. That's great; we can see if it's one or more. At least what I just said is important. We are willing to look at it again and to see if there are any other variants, such as an alcohol lock light or new, other electronic variants that may be possible. But we couldn't transfer the alcohol lock program in government law, which I was a big fan of, just one-on-one to criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u31	This is wonderful talk from the Minister, but no one in the Chamber is asking that, is it? Could you raise your fingers: who in this Chamber has said that the alcohol lock should be taken to criminal law as it was? No one asked you to do that. So these are bullshit answers. Nor has the Chamber said that it wants to look at that again. At least I heard something else. The Chamber has said: best cabinet, come after a thorough investigation, with the knowledge of SWOV and with what victims and criminal lawmen say, with a proposal with which it can. That's what the Chamber said. Is the cabinet prepared to look at how it can be done together with judges, SWOV and traffic victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u32	I just said that the Minister of Justice and I are going to look again at how it can be done. That will probably be a different variant than the current variant, or you have to make different choices, for example that you pay for it. We didn't choose that now. We do not want to leave the costs offenders resting on the state, but that is a possibility. So we come back to the advantages and disadvantages. The Chamber can then say whether or not it finds it an attractive model. So we have already indicated that we take the question from the motion for a resolution, Mr Fisher/Van Helvert, extremely seriously. More questions have been asked. Mrs Visser asks what else we can do...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u33	I would like to touch on the previous point. We read the letter. It indeed sets out the options, but the essence of what has just happened here and of what the Chamber wants is that an option should be chosen to introduce the alcohol lock into criminal law. If that is the case, the costs must be borne by the State. That's how I'd translate it. So we're making a choice here and it doesn't need to be examined again. We choose: in criminal law, costs for the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u34	The message given by the Chamber is very clear to me. But we're drivers. So we must always indicate what we think, whether we think it is sensible and whether it can be carried out or not. The Chamber can always say it wants it anyway. We have initially responded to the question of whether we consider it wise to introduce it in this way. Then we said: no, we are going to look at other measures. I have a number of possibilities in my field with educational measures and the suitability study. Minister Van der Steur has a number of measures in his field. But the Chamber says in advance: we want it anyway. That is what we need to do. I don't think the message is brighter. We will then be able to develop variants, because we must, of course, be able to make sound decisions on the basis of the costs, variations and consequences. That, in turn, is our administrative role. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Visser asked if the alcohol level could not be reduced. I would like to say that, in an earlier debate, I have also promised that I will look into this. We have asked Trimbos to work with SWOV to find a good lower limit for the suitability test. This allows you to judge more from people who take you off the road whether they are still suitable for driving or not, and can lead to consequences. We're investigating a promillage of 1.3 but also other promillages. We will come back to this in spring 2017. Then we can also see what would be the best lower limit. I just said something about the preventive alcohol locks. Can the alcohol lock be offered voluntarily in combination with treatments? Can it be cheaper? At the moment it is not possible to provide an alcohol lock to alcohol addicts, because the third European driving licence directive does not allow addicts to have a driving licence. There is a similar system in Sweden, which is under attack; we were just talking about it. The Commission is likely to start an intergroup procedure shortly. I am working with Sweden and Finland to try to amend the driving licence directive so that it is ultimately possible to impose such measures. We're preparing that. So we are working on it at European level. Is it true that the road safety budget has fallen from about 20 million to about 16 million? This was a question from Mr Madlener. Yes, the road safety budget has been reduced from EUR 18.5 million to EUR 16.3 million over the past year. This is partly due to generic discounts, but that is only a very small part. It is mainly caused by the cessation of the subsidy for the execution of the claims investigations. In other words, this implies the following. If we used to take people off the road because we wanted to see if they were suitable for driving, we actually paid all the research for them. We've said we're not gonna do that anymore. That is why the subsidy has been reduced. This is not at the expense of road safety. On the contrary, I think it promotes road safety. If you know you're gonna have to pay for your own research if you're getting pulled off the road, you might think a little bit longer before you get in a car when you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u35	This is a lot of words. The Minister says: yes, I heard you and we are going to take a good look at it now. I would like to ask what the cabinet did not understand about this spring's motion. The following was said. Since the Council of State no longer allows it, the Chamber invites the Cabinet to extend the impact analysis to the question of whether and under what conditions the slot can be included as a penalty in criminal law, and to involve the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary. The Chamber had to be informed of this before the plenary debate. So we're just asking to tell us how it can be done. We will then receive a letter from the cabinet stating that an impact analysis has been carried out, which shows that they will probably not impose it so often, and that we should therefore not do so. The letter also states that a number of things still need to be investigated. That was the question for this debate. Now the Minister says: oh yes, I heard you and we're going to look at it now. What can the Chamber expect? Last time, we actually didn't get anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u36	I think the motion was very clear. It asked whether and when it could be transferred to criminal law. We answered that question. On the question or question, we have said that it is complex and therefore it is not advisable, because it is too small numbers, because there would then be a contribution from the Empire, because it would have to be paid for and because the system cannot be maintained if only a small number of people are punished. That has been our answer to the or-question, after we've done all those investigations and after we've been talking to the DA and all kinds of other parties. The Chamber says: it doesn't matter, we want it anyway and we are willing to pay for it if necessary or to choose another variant. That's what we heard. Before this debate began, it was clear in the newspapers, so to speak. As ministers we say: fine, then we will get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u37	The minister laughs nicely and says: we had already read it in the newspaper. Yes, we said it in the motion in July! We also said it in that debate. In fact, I don't think it's so neat that the cabinet here is saying a little laughing that it's read it in the paper. We received a letter in which we did not receive an answer to the question. This is because the cabinet starts from and stays stuck in the alcohol lock of the past. Give the judge that piece of tool he's asking for. And leave it to the judge to what extent and how he imposes it. The cabinet fills this in too much in the way it was, with all the complexities I'll take the floor, but you'll get a negative opinion on this for a while. We have asked: how can it be? The Minister has now understood it and I therefore ask her: when can we expect a proposal in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u38	I do not agree with Mr Van Helvert that we did not take the motion seriously. We have taken the motion extremely seriously. We've searched and mapped everything. We have looked at international systems, we have looked at other possibilities. I am in favour of the ASP, so I have no interest in making the instrument disappear. It would have been very desirable for me if it could continue in criminal law. We have only found that under criminal law the effect is likely to be lost, because it is being applied too little. It becomes more difficult and complicated under criminal law than under administrative law. That is why we have said: we are going to look at other measures. The Chamber doesn't want that. Then we will see how it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u39	I understand arguments such as: we think that we can do better in another way. But these are arguments that allow you to do it in criminal law and then see to what extent the potentially less positive effects occur. Are these arguments guiding or is the financial argument leading? Do the indexed positive effects not outweigh costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u40	I'm not in the criminal justice chain, I'm not in the D.A. chain, so I'm just gonna answer as I've experienced it. In administrative law we say: you simply cannot drive and you do not get a driver's license; if you want to get on the road, you have to install such a lock and you have to comply with it for five years. We do not make an individual assessment. What I have understood from criminal law is that people find that complex. That is where an individual assessment is made. What about the home situation? What kind of punishment has he had before? What else happened? What are the additional circumstances? If such an alcohol lock becomes a punishment, then a different consideration will be made than we made under administrative law. The assessment is that the ASP will be applied only very limitedly. You have to have an alcohol lock, so there's got to be a manufacturer who makes it. There's got to be a reading system. People need to be available for that. If you're in France and you blew wrong, you should still be able to get your car back to the Netherlands. There's a whole system around it. The current manufacturer, the only supplier, has said that he is now under 1,000 and that he can no longer deal with it. With less than 1,000 customers, he can't deliver the system anymore. In the Belgian version, with criminal law, there are 40 cases. I cannot judge whether the judge in the Netherlands will impose it more often or less often, but I have made an assessment on the basis of discussions with judges: it will be much less than the thousands we had in administrative law. So the instrument doesn't work anymore. If it cannot be delivered, if it cannot be checked for, if it is hardly applied, if it is not paid by the Empire that was so far always the starting point, then it becomes very complex. Does it make sense? Wouldn't it be better to extend the intake of the driving licence from the two to seven months to a much longer period? Can you lower the promillages from the fitness test? Can you put in the law that you can have 0% alcohol if you want to drive? There are more possibilities to fight things. Unfortunately, because it is not possible, we are looking at other matters. But the Chamber says: we want it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u41	I think everyone agrees that, even if only 40, 40 could be responsible for a significant proportion of the road deaths. These 40 could also be responsible for a significant proportion of the social costs caused by the fact that these people are behind the wheel. Research has shown that it is a very effective measure. I hear what the Minister says, but at the same time I think: this is not a country where one company is potentially leading to continue or not a very effective instrument? Mr Madlener said that other countries are doing the same. Can we not buy it in Belgium, even if it is not exactly the same system as in the Netherlands? The fact that we need to hear from the PVV that we need to reason European and outwardly is a unique fact. That remark is extremely relevant and I would therefore like to repeat it once again: is there anywhere else in the world a company that could do this? In this way we could avoid throwing away a hugely effective measure because one company in the Netherlands does not want to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u42	Maybe we should turn it around: people who use alcohol don't belong on the road. So you wouldn't want them on the road. We made an alcohol lock, because sometimes someone needs a car to participate in working life or social life. We think that taking the driver's license would be a very serious punishment, because not only will you prevent someone from sitting on the road, but you will also ruin his whole life. We'll give someone like that a chance to be in a car anyway, but he'll have to blow. It is therefore not a punishment but an opportunity for people to participate in traffic. So the alcohol lock doesn't make sure they're not on the road anymore. If my driving licence is taken, I can still go on the road, but without a driver's license. I could drive someone else's car without an alcohol lock. It is important to keep in mind that the alcohol lock is an opportunity for people to participate in traffic, despite the punishment they have had. We'll say that only if we're sure that the man or woman isn't wearing anything. That is a good instrument, because it is really only nice that you can keep an eye on someone after taking the two to seven-month driving licence for five years because they are in an alcohol lock program. That's why I'm very happy about it. Of course, such a program must have some body. It must be capable of being carried out. It's got to be affordable. Mrs Belhaj is now telling us that we need to study again and we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u43	It is good to stress that the alcohol slot programme is a measure and not a punishment in relation to the VVD and that it is not self-evident that the costs are borne by the taxpayer. The impact will therefore have to go back to the possibility that people will simply pay for it themselves. If there are legal objections to this, we will be able to hear it when it is worked out. The Minister has just spoken about the consideration of not further developing the alcohol lock programme as a measure in criminal law. She says that 40 cases are too few, but I am looking at the other measures taken to improve road safety. One of these measures is the beginner's driving licence. Recently we received the answers to the written questions of the VVD, the PvdA and D66. This shows that only three driving licences have been suspended under the beginner's driving licence. If we only want to send numbers, we should also stop with the rookie driver's license. I cannot imagine that the Minister today would like to convey that message. That is why the question of how to describe the Minister's words is that 40 is actually too little to include it in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u44	This is not about the number, but about the fact that it is difficult to keep a program running if there are no manufacturer, no system and no people to keep that system running. Anything's possible! Everything has its price and with 40 you can keep it running. You can consider that, but then it is the question whether you choose the most effective solution. In other words, is it not more effective to take the driving licence so that they can't get on the road at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u45	It is good to hear this because the impression could be given that this was a consideration and that it was not done for that reason. I will continue with one of the VVD's greater objections to the proposal before us. That objection is precisely that no additional measures are laid down. The alcohol lock program is no longer possible. Then we go back to the situation before the alcohol lock programme, which is: up to seven months at 1.3 promille. In the situation with the alcohol lock program, you'd just lose your license for five years if you didn't cooperate. I can't explain the big difference between five years and seven months at most. Does the Minister agree with me that we should consider whether we can make the driving disqualification much longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u46	I would like to pass on that question to my colleague, who is about penalties. I myself am responsible for the educational programme, in which people learn again how to deal with their alcohol addiction and participation in traffic. In addition, I am responsible for the fitness test. I have already said that I am prepared to make it stricter by looking at whether we can lower the lower limit, which would allow people to take the driving licence more quickly. I have another question to ask about the possibility of a voluntary ASP, which is applied to a prescription in Finland. I have already said that this cannot be done in relation to the third driving licence directive. Sweden and Finland are now under attack from the European Commission. I think I've had all the questions. No, one more question has been asked about SWOV. This foundation is looking at new effective measures to combat alcohol in traffic. I think she is currently examining what other possibilities there are. Perhaps new elements will emerge that we can incorporate into our policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u47	A small correction: SWOV investigated this. I think I heard the Minister say SWOV is investigating this. However, the report came out yesterday. My request to the Minister was to deal with the three issues put forward. I imagine she's still doing this by letter. In addition, the Minister said that we cannot do what is happening in Finland here. I get that about the part of the compulsion. However, if there are people who want to cooperate voluntarily, I can imagine that it is an incentive to achieve this from the government and to help or contribute to it, so that these people, even on a voluntary basis, can avoid getting into the car with a sip.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u48	Indeed, the SWOV report came out yesterday. I will also go back to this in the direction of the Chamber, as I always do with the road safety investigations carried out by SWOV. As far as Finland is concerned, I understand that people are now looking at the obligation themselves, because too few people volunteer for it. This often has to do with, I think, the psychological situation of many alcohol addicts, who themselves think that there is nothing wrong. That is, of course, the problem of alcohol. If we are looking at variants, I can see what the effect of a voluntary alcohol lock would be. But there has to be something available for that too. The most important thing for me is to find an instrument, a method to apply alcohol locks on a small scale in cars. That's why I'll do my scan all over the world. For my colleagues, I think it is the most important thing to look at the extent to which you can apply what punishment within the rules of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u49	I would like to put the voluntary story in a more positive light. Kuipers Logistics in Oldenzaal I hope the NPO doesn't broadcast this, because then it might have been advertising that decided to put an alcohol lock in all its trucks. They've just decided to do that voluntarily. After three months they received a call from their insurer asking whether they had stopped working on Monday. Why, they asked. Well, since we never get damage reports again on Monday, the answer was. That is a positive effect, in which you see in the mindset the alcohol lock not as a kind of punishment but as a tool to function better in society. How does the cabinet view these kinds of business initiatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u50	Very positive. This is of course not applied so much because Kuiper Logistics thinks that their people consume so much alcohol, but probably to prevent damage. Probably or perhaps, I don't know, people have had bad experiences. For example, there are also transport companies that always do a tire check for their drivers, just before they start driving. Then they must drive over a weighing plate to see what the load is like. I think all this is very sensible because you protect both your people and your goods, which means that you have lower costs as a company. In addition, such a tyre check often reduces fuel consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u51	Now I'd almost get confused. This is actually a wonderful example of how you can make people choose preventively without them perhaps screaming from the rooftops: I am addicted. I'd just like an alcohol lock like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u52	That is the right thing to do, and that is the right thing to do. These companies, of course, have an economic reason to do so. The question is whether the individual addict will volunteer for an alcohol lock. That's actually the discussion we're having here. I say, if he wants to do that, that's fine. If he is not going to do so, then of course we still have no instrument to get people who are on the road from whom we think they should not be on the road off. That is why we need more than just the alcohol lock. Again, the alcohol lock, the punishment, is not the solution to the problem. The solution to the problem lies in disenfranchisement, detention and withdrawal of the driving licence for eternity. An alcohol lock is only an opportunity to go on that road, but under strict conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u53	Then I guess it's just and-and. Then we do not have to wait for that change to be made in cooperation with other countries. It should always be an option, because people also have a social environment that might also help and can say: do it for yourself now, although you don't see yourself as an addict and even though you've never made a mistake. Whether they are a partner, family members or friends, that can help in all its smallness... even if only one or two help........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u54	That's why I'm saying it's important to look at an alcohol lock light. In the current system you need to blow x times, you need to report once in a while and read data. That will be another variant for Kuiper Logistics, where the boss can check the situation on a sample basis. He will not subject his people to the same type of program. If we want to be able to apply an alcohol lock programme as a penal measure, then we need to look at the form in which this can be done. And then we go from the most extreme form of "yes," extreme; the heavy form that we now know "to a lighter variant" so that we can see what the consequences and costs are. Then we have to assess what the decline will be and what the market is like. We'll come back with that. In addition, a voluntary variant can always exist. Mr President, this was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, I have talked regularly, both in my previous position and in this position, with people who have been victims of people who have used alcohol in traffic and with relatives of people who have been victims of it. I refer here to the story of Mr Bishop. Without any doubt, the Minister of I and M and I believe that we must do everything we can to put an end to the situation in which people think they can combine alcohol and traffic. That's uncomfortable and tricky. It means that we have a lot of resources at the same time in many areas. However, one thing is certain. We are both convinced that alcohol does not mix in traffic, that it is very dangerous and that it can cause deaths in the Netherlands. I therefore think that SWOV's report is a good report. We can draw positive elements from that. For example, since the 1980s, alcohol consumption among motorists has been reduced from 12% on weekends to the 2% we see today. That's a big success. I think this is due to the increased police supervision of alcohol consumption in traffic, the large-scale and successful behavioural influence campaigns and, of course, the relatively high penalties that have been successfully used to reduce that problem. This does not mean that we should not also look for the best possible approach to prevent that 2% from going into traffic. Then the SWOV report is less good news. This shows that there is a large group of people, partly addicted and partly with a different mindset than we have here, who continue to combine structural and persistent alcohol and traffic participation. In fact, this is so structural and persistent that these people do not allow themselves to be deprived of driving licences and to withdraw their driving licences. As the Minister of I and M just said, I would not be surprised that if someone has an alcohol lock in their own car, they will find another car to participate in the traffic. That is how real we must be. There is a group that is very difficult to tackle. Mr Hoogland already gave the example of the woman who rides on the road every night with alcohol on. It's mostly those people we don't catch at standard traffic checks. We do thousands of traffic checks in the Netherlands, including at the exit of the parking garage here on the Square. I've never blown as much as I've blown since I joined the Parliament. This control is also risk-oriented. It's not just about MPs, it's about other people who are bubbling on the Square. I believe that the Hague region is applying a good preventive measure here. The really notorious offenders are generally not caught there, but when they are held up in a situation as Mr Hoogland has indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u56	This minister also starts by saying how difficult and how difficult it is. I have not yet heard the word 'complexity' from this minister, but he uses that kind of phrase. He says the group can't be caught and can't be caught. There will always be people who will find ways to get around the case. The same applies to taxes. There will always be tax evaders, but that is why we do not yet say: you know what, let's get rid of that tax. Here's what's going on. The alcohol lock just works. Of course, there's gonna be people sneaking in and avoiding it, but it works. The scientific graphs indicate that after we started the alcohol lock in the Netherlands, the number of offences due to the use of alcohol in traffic decreased. Since September, when we stopped, you see a stabilisation and even a small increase. That is why we are doing this. I ask the Minister to stop saying how difficult and how difficult it is. Don't say what's not possible, we know that; if it had been easy, we wouldn't have had this debate right now, but see how it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u57	In the course of my speech, of course, I shall come back to that, because Mr Van Helvert also asked that question in the first term. With the Minister of I and M, I find it incredibly regrettable that the alcohol lock programme can no longer be imposed. The statements of the Supreme Court and the Council of State have already been discussed. As a result, we immediately looked at the possibility of transferring the ASP to criminal law. I am absolutely not opposed to this in principle; let me be very clear about that. I understand very well that the Members of Parliament say, as Mr Van Helvert just said in his interruption: this system works, so let us include it in criminal law. I, as a driver, may be expected to see if it works. I have no difficulty in including anything in criminal law, but the question is whether it can actually be implemented. Does it actually lead to enough impositions to make such a system profitable? Mr Van Helvert and I had an exchange of views on this subject in general discussions in the past. At that time, I indicated what was a condition for me. I have no room in my budget for an amount of between EUR 2.4 million and EUR 7.2 million. The principle then is that the costs must be borne by the person to whom it must be applied. The person concerned has an interest in this, because he is entitled to participate in traffic. We agreed on that. Now I understand that the Chamber chooses another line and says: it doesn't matter to us, the costs have to be paid by the State. Fine. I would like to look at that, but I do have a problem in the budget. But that doesn't stop me from looking at it if the Chamber wants it to. I am still concerned about the number of impositions, given the discussions we have had with the courts on this matter. However, there was other news about this yesterday, which forces me to sit down with the organisation concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u58	That was one of the questions I wanted to ask the Minister. Mr Van Helvert also referred to it. We have tabled a motion before the summer in which we ask: see how the alcohol lock programme can be transferred to criminal law. We have also realised that there are all kinds of ifs and buts and that it cannot be done in the current form, but the question was to see what can be done. We received a letter yesterday which still expects the judges not to impose it. And who's sketching our surprise? Yesterday afternoon, the same criminals said in a response: please give us that means, because we think we are going to apply it. How does the Minister judge that ruling? After all, we have just said: talk to those judges and come up with a written story of how it can be done. I cannot therefore reconcile the Minister's letter with the ruling of the Chairman of the National Consultation Course Content Criminal law. Can the Minister respond to that? I would also like to stress that the starting point for the VVD still has to be that the costs can be recovered from those drink drivers, even if it goes to criminal law. The Minister is now drawing this conclusion too quickly. I would like to emphasise this through you, Mr President. I just did the same thing to the Minister of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u59	Let me say two things. Thank you for Mrs Visser's question. That's an understandable question. I'm telling you honestly, I was surprised myself, too. My point of contact within the judiciary is the Council of Justice. We have had discussions with them, in accordance with the motion of the two people who are now standing at the interrupting microphone. The board has indicated: we expect it to be imposed to a limited extent, depending on who pays the bill. If the bill is passed on to the drinkers, as proposed by Mrs Visser, then we estimate that it will be very limited. Then I know that I am also looking at my fellow Member, Mr Tugendhat, that there is simply no chance that we will be able to make a profit. That is probably not going to be him, but if the costs were for the State, the judges also said, then we expect about 1,100 impositions. Of course, that's all guessing and looking at coffee floors, but even 1,100 impositions aren't enough to carry that system economically. We now estimate a cost increase from 2.4 million to 7.2 million. Then the question is whether that will be the final cost. We have to look at that further. Then the judge of the LOVS comes on the line and he says: we see it differently. Then the question I would like to ask him, but for which I have not had time between last night and today: do you mean 1,100 or 3,000? Because then we have a different story. That is an important point, which I would like to investigate further and will, of course, find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u60	That's good to hear. I think that the Chamber will also call on the Minister to start that discussion quickly, but this also includes the following. The question was not just to look at the transfer of the alcohol lock programme from administrative law to criminal law. There is also the general feeling in the Chamber that when we tackle drinkers, we are moving a bit towards the side where we have a great deal of sympathy for the perpetrator, read: we take into account the costs he or she has to pay; that was also a bit in the SP contribution but we forget the position of the victim. The Minister has said in the past that this is extremely important. I would like to stress that the question of how we can better deal with drinkers on both the preventive and the criminal side, as far as we are concerned, is part of the overall programme in the development of criminal law. The Minister will be discussing this shortly in the context of the seven-month driving disqualifications. That doesn't fit as far as we're concerned. I would like to say to the Minister that, in his talks with the judiciary, he has once again expressly indicated that these penalties should simply be higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u61	The last point is complicated in our rule of law. I would always like to convey the Court's feelings to the courts, but the judiciary itself is of course responsible for this. The bill in which I propose to charge a sum between €379 and €1,900 to convicts cannot yet count on great enthusiasm in the First Chamber. When it comes to €5,000, or perhaps a multiple of them, if the alcohol lock programme is imposed to a limited extent, the costs may increase accordingly, I think that there is very little chance that your call for the drink driver to pay for it will be followed politically. I'm very worried about that. So I have to take this into account, and that is why I have to say that the full costs come from my budget. As I said, I have no room for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mrs Visser, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u63	Following the Minister's last remark, he himself knows that the VVD voted in favour of that bill in the House of Representatives. That is why I say: refer it to the Chamber so that we can all decide on it. Everyone has called for this. Let all those parties decide on this, followed by the Supreme Court. Let's not think about it before the First Chamber. I understand the Minister's call, but I still call on him to work out this proposal, including passing on the costs to the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u64	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u65	The Minister is trying to get out of a number of cases by talking about costs. He thinks, "You know what, let's start with those costs, because that point hasn't been figured out by the Chamber yet. Then they get into a fight and we'll survive this debate." That's not the point. The Minister appealed to a general consultation when he was only a minister. We did mention that point briefly at the time. The motion that the Minister has gotten his pants on, because we all thought it was too long, was clear: show how it can be done, without talking about money. We need to get that alcohol lock back, according to the motion. In consultation with the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary, the Minister must show how this is going to happen. Did that meeting ever happen? I am asking this because the criminal courts have made it clear that they do not want to do so. It is not a question of a judge, as the minister just said with his well-known smile, but of the chairman of the national criminal court. Did that consultation go through? If so, how can it be that we come to the conclusion that it is not so meaningful?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u66	The answer is as stated in the letter. Mr Van Helvert has read that letter and knows that there has been such consultation. We have held consultations with the Court of Justice, which comes out of this conclusion. I have taken note of the opinion of the president of the LOVS, who does. My question is what that means: how many cases are involved and what are we going to do with them? I find that very interesting and, in a sense, I am pleased with that remark, because it could provide more room for realistic interpretation, which I have said from the outset that I would be in favour of. In this respect, Mr Van Helvert is served at his beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u67	But the minister says it's expensive. We have between 50 and 100 road deaths per year due to alcohol in traffic, and we have more serious injuries in traffic. The Minister's answer is that the measure to counter this is a bit expensive. Apart from the fact that I do not think that this is a proper response, the Minister must also pay attention to money. I want to know who is paying for the social costs of all these road deaths and injuries. After all, the Minister wants to talk about figures, leaving out the feeling of victims for a while, because the cabinet does not think it is useful at the moment. Who pays the social costs of €200,000 per year for a seriously injured person? Who pays the social cost of a million dollars for a road kill? That's what society's after, isn't it? That's cost, isn't it? In this fundamental debate on whether we want the alcohol lock back or not, we are going to talk about who is going to pay the €5,000 per alcohol lock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u68	I really believe that Mr Van Helvert is taking part in another debate. From the outset, I have said that the starting point is to prevent victims. That's why we had a system that functioned. I also said that I have no fundamental objections to including the alcohol lock programme in criminal law in any form and that it is precisely about preventing victims. Mr Van Helvert has obviously had a very different debate, but not with me, because my remarks are in no way related to Mr Van Helvert's paraphrases. I do not therefore recognize the image that Mr Van Helvert sketches at all. I think it's good that he's gonna listen to what I'm gonna say, because I'm really gonna try to find a solution. That's what we're all here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u69	There is only one person in this Chamber who currently does not feel and understand the debate at all, and that is the Minister of Justice. He's acting like a bad accountant and talking about a million dollars, while this cabinet is wasting billions on it, I know what kind of blunders, including this minister, with all kinds of calls that fail and with systems that fail. We are talking about 140 deaths a year and we are talking about an effective measure to catch a very difficult group of perpetrators. And then we're gonna have a discussion here about a few million dollars and how we're gonna do that? It's just unwillingness. I sense unwillingness in this cabinet to deal with this problem. If there's anyone who doesn't understand, it's the cabinet. The cabinet does not understand the feeling in the Chamber and that it should take this seriously. We are not talking about anything, we are talking about 140 deaths a year and serious traffic offences. I hope the Minister will listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u70	That is also why I am standing here. That is exactly why we have looked very carefully at the system. We've been looking at exactly what we can do now that we can't do it with the system we had. Then what can we do? I made an appointment with the state's attorney's office to raise the criminal charges. We are going to do a punitive test to see whether the legal penalty limits requested by Mr Madlener should be raised. We are all going to do that, precisely because we only want one thing, and that is to ensure that we have a good policy, very broad, to deal effectively with the problem that both Mr Madlener and I are concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u71	We are having discussions here about the numbers needed to make it profitable. That is the discussion that is taking place. In Belgium they can apparently make it profitable by 40. At least they kept them alive. Finland does it, Sweden does it. Isn't it too crazy for words to say that we have to have a discussion here whether it's 100 or 300? That's crazy, isn't it? The point is that these people are being dealt with and that there is already an effective measure, of which almost the entire Chamber says: go ahead with it. And then we have to have this discussion with the Cabinet? It's pure unwillingness. I call once again on the cabinet to listen to the feelings of the Chamber and of society. We are the representatives of the people. Take care of this! It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u72	In my view, that is exactly what my colleague from I and M and I have said. We would like to do that, and we will do that as well. However, I can do more, because of course we do not only have the alcohol lock programme. The measure I am looking at at the moment is the possibility of introducing the alcohol ankle strap, also known as the alcohol meter. I trust the MPs are familiar with that. In 2014 the probation carried out a small test to investigate whether the alcohol ankle strap could be used in the supervision of convicted persons. In 2017, probation and the Public Prosecutor's Office will start a pilot at two ZSM locations, using the alcohol ankle strap to monitor persons who have been banned from alcohol because of the violence they have committed under the influence of alcohol. I am following this development closely. If the alcohol ankle strap proves successful in these cases, I will see if it can also be used when driving under the influence. We will take that with the Minister of I and M into our investigation. A number of individual questions have been asked. I've already talked about my conversation with the LOVS, which I'd like to have. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Bishop asked about the police's efforts to maximise the chances of being caught. That's a fair question. With them, I believe that along that line, too, we should ensure that serious traffic offences do not go unpunished. Therefore, I am and will remain in conversation with the Chief Constable about the police's commitment to road safety. He has assured me, even in the run-up to this debate, that this has its full attention. Police involvement in the area of traffic enforcement is twofold. On the one hand, we have Teams Traffic. The police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have drawn up a guide for the Transport Teams. The approach to alcohol driven driving is one of the national priorities and this remains a national priority. The vacancies of the Teams Traffic will be filled in. In addition, it is very important that traffic enforcement is carried out by the police base teams. I have recently had discussions on this with the regional mayors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The state's attorney's office indicates where it should be. As a result, the mayors also agree with me that further steps need to be taken in the area of traffic enforcement, in particular because we see that there are now more victims in a number of areas, especially on the secondary roads, than we were aiming for. In this respect, therefore, the stakes are also strengthened and strengthened. Mrs Visser has asked for the possibility of increasing the maximum withdrawal to five years. It is already possible to impose a five-year driving ban. The problem with this is that it is ultimately up to the court to judge. Following the removal of the possibility to impose an ASP, the Public Prosecutor's Office has amended criminal proceedings policy with effect from 1 April 2015. That is again at the same level as before the introduction of the ASP. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall also take into account what is expected to be imposed by the court when drawing up the scope of criminal proceedings. Mrs Visser also asked how we could shape the personal approach. In criminal law, of course, there is always a personal approach. That was also one of the starting points of the Supreme Court in its motivation why the alcohol lock program could not continue. This means that it also takes into account repetition in the imposition of penalties by judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u73	Both answers raise questions. I'll start with the point of driving disqualifications. The crux is that we do not want to go back to the situation as it was for the alcohol lock programme. The whole Chamber has asked the Minister to consider whether it can still be included in criminal law, because we see that it is an important means. As long as there isn't, those drinkers should be able to be dealt with. We need to make sure they can't get behind the wheel with their drunken head. A long riding tone will help with that. Going back to the situation before the alcohol lock program does not fit in the line. I do not know how to regulate it legally, because we know the separation of powers, but we call on the Minister to find a solution so that we can get back to the situation at the time of the alcohol lock programme. You have a choice: if you don't cooperate, you'll lose your driver's license longer. There will be many objections to this, but the appeal to the Minister is to start the discussion with the Public Prosecutor. To that end, we have tabled a motion. Yesterday's letter did not allow me to read back the answer to that question so quickly, but I would like to ask that question again. Is he willing to start the conversation with the D.A.?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u74	Of course, please. I will immediately combine that with a conversation with the LOVS. In view of the directives used by the courts in the case of alcohol in circulation, the choice is always made for the imposition of a fine. There is also the possibility to opt for a driving waiver, whether conditional or not. Moreover, the SWOV report shows that this does not stop some of these people, however shameful it may be. Then it can be chosen to declare the driving licence invalid. I'm fine with conveying those concerns to both the D.A. and the LOVS. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u75	I thank the Minister for the commitment. This is important, because the VVD has just called for a look at the difference between what is in the Code of Criminal Law and what is in practice imposed by judges, the so-called penalty hole. I therefore assume that the investigation will come soon and that it will be discussed immediately. I come back to the answer to my question about the personal approach. The Minister states that certain matters are possible, but judges do not use them until they are included as a measure in the Code of Criminal Law. The alcohol lock program is not included. Our request is to consider whether this can be included. I have also made a number of other suggestions. Those people must feel like they're getting close to the skin. This can be done simply by means of enforcement, but this can also be done by the environment finding that they have an alcohol problem. Is the Minister prepared to consider extending the package of measures in criminal law in order to better deal with these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'm trying to figure out what role criminal law can play in this. I do not see very quickly how mobilising the environment in the event of an alcohol problem could be implemented in criminal law. I think that is much more on the prevention side, which is partly also related to the health care side, but I do not have much of a view on that. So I find it difficult to answer that question one-two-three, but in criminal law there is always a personal approach. I know from the Minister of I and M that the same principles apply to the part for which she is responsible. I think it is very important that we do everything we can. That is why I will take the suggestion of the Chamber to facilitate the alcohol lock programme in criminal law and see how we can then give our hands and feet to it. I am happy to do so, but I find this question difficult, because I cannot entirely assess what the point could be, apart from the alcohol ankle strap, which is of course also a signal for the environment and which can also lead to a reporting obligation. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u77	For the sake of explanation, we have indicated in this approach that it is about impounding the car and ensuring that people report to a police station or hospital every day, if necessary, and that they have to take a bladder test every day. It is therefore a combination of measures. Some cases are included in criminal law and some are not. Some cases are in criminal law and some cases are in the field of prevention. Yesterday, SWOV research provided a number of tools. Is the Minister prepared to look together with his colleague from I and M at what they can get out of it and how to ensure that this approach becomes better and firmer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u78	That's not a problem. We have this willingness, because we have a problem and we want to solve it as best we can with each other and with society. Mrs Visser referred to the ten-point plan of the VVD and specifically to the special investigative powers for the police. That point and, in particular, the question of whether there is a need for additional powers in the event of an accident, I will take part in the investigation into the penalty measurement. My perception is that there is no such need, but I want to establish it by means of research. I shall therefore include this point in the investigation. The obligation to report referred to by Mrs Visser and which is also part of the ten-point plan of the VVD, I can possibly fill in with the anklet. After all, the anklet must also be read. So you could introduce a regular reporting obligation. I really want to look at this from that pilot. If this is successful, this might be an alternative to an alcohol lock programme in criminal law, but that should at least lead to the possibility of regular reading of whether or not alcohol has been used in the past. Now this is still tied to the ban on alcohol. That must also be imposed. On the basis of this pilot, I would like to see whether we can still use this instrument in one way or another, because it is a little more low-threshold and possibly a little cheaper than the alcohol lock programme and may even be more effective. That's what we're looking for, of course. Ms Belhaj called for more information on the group of persistent alcohol offenders, as also advocated by SWOV. For the police, looking at my responsibility, that's complicated. In the event of an arrest, a police report is drawn up, which has only one purpose, namely to be used in criminal proceedings. This does not include the possibility of taking one more step afterwards and doing some kind of scientific research. That is why it is very good that SWOV can continue to do that kind of research. Mr Smaling said that a driving waiver is not a solution for a notorious offender. I don't entirely agree with that. Fortunately, there are plenty of people who do stick to a driving disqualification. After all, it is a violent measure. Moreover, in the event of a violation, the penalties are also very severe, but at the same time we see in the report that the group of notorious, persistent drinkers seems to be indifferent to this. I find that very worrying. Mrs Visser but also the SP and the SGP have asked about the seizure of the vehicle. It is possible and can also lead to a public sale of the vehicle. The police may confiscate the vehicle if a breath analysis or blood test reveals that the driver's promillage is higher than 1.3 permille or that there is a starting driver with a promillage of 0.8 permille. The Public Prosecutor's Office will refer more cases to the court on this point, with the aim of not returning the vehicle, so that this will also result in alcohol being removed from circulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u79	I would like to go back a bit, however, to ask whether the Minister is prepared to draw up a plan, together with police, prosecutors and civil society organisations, to gather as much background information as possible. That is a slightly different question from the one the Minister answered, I have the impression. But maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u80	I would, of course, like to contribute to this. I merely indicated that it is difficult within my powers. The police only have an obligation to file a report of the arrest of someone who's had too much to drink. There's no scientific background to that. This will therefore have to be organised in other ways. But, of course, I am willing to make a contribution to this. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u81	That's actually exactly why I asked the question. If you know what information you need to find out in a very effective way about who it is, you can also decide to go through the minutes on a number of aspects that appear to be irrelevant in the first instance but which are extremely relevant for scientific research. Hence my request to go further than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u82	I regard this as an appeal to both directors, and perhaps even to some extent to the Minister for Health, who, of course, plays his own role in this, for example in the area of addiction care. We really need to look at how we can implement this, but I am always willing to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u83	If you make an accountant minister for security and justice, police stations will indeed be closed, because of course they are not cost-effective. And then there's a lot of flashes, for those very small fines, on highways where people are no danger at all. That's good money. That's exactly what's happening. And now the Minister, again for the accounting reason of efficiency, says: let's take the anklet as an alternative. On the one hand, I hear the Minister saying that we should continue with the alcohol lock, but on the other hand, he thinks that the anklet might be even more cost-effective. Then I think, "What's the point of having an ankle bracelet like that?" If someone wants to get drunk at home, we're not about that. Of course, it's not good for someone like that, but it's about not getting drunk in the car. Of course, an anklet doesn't prevent anyone from getting in the car. So how can the Minister put that as an alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u84	It's very simple. We already have several experiences with ankle bracelets with GPS combinations. In principle, this can be linked to each other. You can then easily measure if someone has moved and which route he has followed. I can't see that, and that's why it's very important that we do the pilot. I'm not saying it's an alternative or a replacement. I do think that we should take care of what Mr Madlener can expect from us. I think it's kind of funny that he says a lot of times that I'm an accountant. I hadn't gotten that picture before; therefore it's refreshing to exchange views with a number of new speakers. Generally speaking, being an accountant isn't the blame I get most. I do not see the reason for this debate either, because that is not the point at all. This is really about looking for an effective measure. I very much appreciate that Mr Madlener is constantly challenging us to continue to take effectiveness as a starting point in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u85	At least the Minister behaves like an accountant, but he is also a bad accountant. That seems to me to be a double problem. The Minister brings the anklet here as a possible solution to the problem of drunken driving, because then you can see if someone is moving. But someone can order a taxi, can't they? You can always move, even if you're drunk. If you get in a taxi or a bus, that's not a problem. That anklet won't fix that. The point is that someone doesn't sit behind the wheel and gets on the road as a driver. If someone rides with an anklet, yeah, he moves. That's not the problem either. So the Minister should not use this as a diversion. The Chamber wants to continue the alcohol lock. Bet on that. Then we won't be needing this very long debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u86	I think that's what we said. The Minister of I and M and I are happy to look into that further. Mr Madlener is therefore being served on that point. To be honest, I do not think his speech is so sensible. I really think you should look at all the resources you have and not focus on one drug. We know from the SWOV report that we're talking about a group of 100,000 people. We used to put down 3,000 alcohol lock programs. I really think that the government should be expected to look beyond that 3,000 man. I really believe that a broad range of measures can be expected from the government, as far as I am concerned, in criminal law, if necessary. I can clearly hear the House say how it feels about that. We must tackle the whole group and not stare blindly at the 3,000 we have given an alcohol lock programme in the past. By the way, it is clear that it is still possible to drive around in other people's cars. That's what's gonna happen. That's how realistic we have to be. I can possibly do something about that with a pilot with an ankle bracelet. Whatever Mr Madlener thinks of the pilot, I'm really just gonna do it. I think it is very important that we explore opportunities that can make our overall approach effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u87	I don't think this is a bitch debate at all. I think it is a very useful debate. All measures have their advantages and disadvantages in terms of effectiveness, cost and feasibility in the criminal justice domain. So I think this debate is very timely. I have a question about confiscating the vehicle, whether or not in combination with a driving waiver. The Minister says this is an opportunity, but is it already happening? Is there any case law in this sphere? Because I'm afraid you're going to intervene deeply on the basic rights of individuals when you get to the property. Or am I wrong to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u88	That's up to the judge. I don't have any figures on the number of seizures. However, I think that we should be relatively realistic about this. The fines imposed for alcohol in traffic sometimes go towards the €1,000. If a judge considers that reasonable, whether or not combined with a driving disqualification and any invalidity of the driving licence, then seizure of the car will thus deprive it of a certain property of a certain value, possibly be regarded as an overweight remedy. That is exactly the concern we have with the alcohol lock programme in the proposal as we have figured it out ourselves. If people have to pay €5,000 themselves, judges are likely to be inclined to impose that punishment to a lesser extent. So I think we should be realistic on that point, no matter how annoying I am. I myself think it is quite good to suggest that it might be an idea to take the car away from people who use their car for life-threatening situations. But that's really a question that ultimately rests with the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u89	Of course, I agree with the latter. Does the Minister have any idea of the degree of deterrent that would result from such an intervention? If you compare this with measures that we now have, discuss or evaluate, this may be a measure that may be deterrent enough for the notorious group that continues to drive despite driving deprivation. Maybe you're taking this to a level of offense that's much lower than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u90	I know that in tough cases, it's possible to impound and sell the car. I'll take this with me in the sentencing investigation. I want to see if we can somehow turn a button somewhere to stimulate this. The risk of losing the car may eventually be a very effective means. In the end, however, the judgment will be and will remain the judge. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the answer to the individual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mr Madlener has another question. Then we'll move on quickly to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u92	I asked a question about the penalty. What happens if someone's been denied driving because he's been driving heavily drunk, but he's doing it again? Then how long does someone go to jail?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u93	The maximum penalty for driving during a cancellation or with an invalid driving licence is a three-month imprisonment or a fine of up to €8,200. I'm gonna include this in the criminal investigation, because I think the question of whether that's enough is justified. However, it also depends on how often it is imposed. I don't have any figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u94	And that, of course, is my question. I'm in the middle of a debate with the Secretary of Security. It's about effectiveness. How often is this imposed? We have had a whole debate on how often an alcohol lock is imposed. That may happen less often. That's probably a reason not to. Now I ask how often prison is imposed on someone who repeatedly gets drunk in the car, because that really cannot be done, but the Minister has no answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u95	Since I do not have an answer to that, I indicated that I would have it investigated. I will provide Mr Madlener with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u96	So much for the first term. We'll continue with the second term. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Everyone has a minute and a half speaking time. The first speaker is Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that I do not fully understand the tone and approach of the cabinet in the first instance, given all the information we had on this issue, given the motion that Mrs Visser and I have already tabled, given what criminal lawmen and the SWOV have said, and also given the signal that road victims have sent out in the past. The cabinet constantly says that it is before and wants to look at it, but we do not see the direct will to come up with a proposal. There is talk of complexity and difficulties. If this is what the cabinet wants, I'm fine with it. That is very nice, but I wonder why this tone has been chosen. The tone is that everything is difficult and difficult, while we say very simply: the alcohol lock must be returned and come to the Chamber with proposals on this. That is a broad-based position. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the alcohol lock programme can no longer be imposed by decisions of the Supreme Court and the Council of State by the Central Bureau of Driving Certificates (CBR) and should therefore be included in criminal law as a measure;]] [[Whereas a well-functioning alcohol lock programme can make a significant contribution to the reduction of driving under the influence and of road injuries and deaths;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible in consultation with the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (SWOV) and the Vereniging Verkeersvredigen (Vereniging Verkeersvredigen) to submit a proposal to the Chamber in which judges can impose a penalty, such as the alcohol lock, with a personal approach to chronic drinkers in traffic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Hoogland, Mr Visser, Mr Bishop, Mr Belhaj and Mr Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-532]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u98	Of course we assume, also in view of the motion for a resolution by Mr Visser/Van Helvert which is still before us, that this will be done in good consultation with the prosecution and the criminal courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr. Chairman. I do not often have the pleasure of debating it with the Minister of Security and Justice, but the few times that it has happened, I have always found it unheard of. Such a debate is difficult, with many words and difficulties. I'm listening to a huge unwillingness to just sort this out. The Chamber has often talked about this. The wish is clear. SWOV's clear. This is an effective measure to deal effectively with the culprits of possible 140 deaths per year. The Minister then says that the European Commission does not like it and that the costs are too high. She also says: we do not know whether the judge will use this. But the Belgians do it 40 times a year and they do it. The Finns and the Sweden are doing it. But we are going to refer and say: the European Commission must take care of it. No, we have to do this ourselves. We are dealing with the approach and our criminal law, fortunately. So stop with the European Commission and deal with this. I'd like to hear that from the Minister, but I didn't hear that. This cabinet is clearly ruled out. There's no point in it anymore. The Minister of Justice is acting like an accountant and not like a traffic handler. I find this really disgusting. I'm very disappointed. We will, of course, support the motion for a resolution. I will give that advice to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. I have heard that the Minister wants to consider alcohol in Euro NCAP, the star system for the safety of cars. That's good. I hear they're looking at the technology in cars. That's good, too. If a car can smell, watch or correct, that's profit. I understand that the effectiveness of denials must be increased. That's good, too. I also understand that we want to look at the voluntary possibilities for an alcohol lock. That's good, too. Mr Van Helvert's motion is also good, because it bears my signature. I'd like to table a motion on the SWOV investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas SWOV, in its investigation, identifies serious alcohol offenders in traffic leading to effective policies in the field of alcohol and traffic;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible on the basis of SWOV research on alcohol and traffic, to examine what changes can be made to policies and/or laws and regulations (better profiling, new preventive measures and a broader approach), and to inform the Court of Justice of this later this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland, Mr Visser and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-533]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u101	I note that this has been partly and perhaps already fully promised by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. Mr Van Helvert has just tabled a motion on behalf of the VVD Group to point out that we do not regard the alcohol lock programme as an objective but as an important means of improving road safety. In the meantime, the alcohol lock is not imposed. We are very concerned about the instruments we do have at our disposal. We believe that these two things should be done at the same time. I made two suggestions in my first term. I have received assurances on this, but I would like to add two motions to send a clear signal from this Chamber, also in connection with the debate. We must clearly choose the victim's position and not the unsub's. In traffic enforcement, the balance between justice and justice has been somewhat lost in the past period. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the alcohol lock programme is no longer being imposed for the time being and the possibility of improving road safety is therefore lost;]] [[Whereas, in the event of non-cooperation in the imposition of the alcohol lock programme, the licence was declared invalid by the CBR for five years;]] [[noting that, following the lifting of the alcohol lock programme, a declaration of invalidity of up to seven months has been chosen;]] [[considers that this does not satisfy the sense of justice;]] [[calls on the Government to bring the declaration of invalidity of the licence back into line with the situation at the time of the alcohol lock programme, i.e. five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-534]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u103	I'm going to read my second motion very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a group of highly recurrent drink drivers which poses the greatest risk to road safety;]] [[noting that the alcohol lock programme to deal with these notorious drinkers is no longer imposed for the time being and that other instruments should be used to visualise or keep these drinkers off the road;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the level of promillage imposing a fitness test to 1.3 promille, for example, so that possible notorious drinkers can be seen earlier and effective measures can be taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser, Mr Hoogland and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-535]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u104	I would like to make one final point. This morning, in an article in the AD on the cost of the alcohol lock program, it said that there might be all kinds of claims. It does not need to be in the debate now, but I would ask the Minister if she can inform the Chamber by letter of which foot-and-mouthers and clamps might be included in this dossier, so that we can involve it in any further debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mr. Chairman. It was a useful debate, but it was also unsatisfactory because the Chamber had to work a little harder to convince this cabinet to go ahead with the alcohol lock. Good motions have been tabled. I see a number of young people sitting in the public gallery. Finally, I would like to say that it is so unfortunate that people in the Netherlands always look at alcohol abuse as: alcohol is something cozy. Today we have explicitly stated that 140 people die because people do not think and decide to get behind the wheel anyway. This is serious, especially in the knowledge that 120 murders were committed in 2015, but 140 deaths were caused by alcohol consumption. In the case of murder, everyone always says it's important that we pay attention to it in the police and that we should address each other. However, when it comes to alcohol, we sometimes make it too easy. I hope that this has not only been a good debate, but that the subject is raised more often, so that everyone across the Netherlands realizes that alcohol can be very nice, but also extremely harmful. We're all there to help each other prevent you from being stupid enough to go behind the wheel with too much alcohol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr. Chairman. It was a good and well-timed debate, I think. It is not my impression that the rulers do not understand the urgency of the matter. I hope that after this debate there will be something better than what is now. I would like to register for Mr Van Helvert's motion. It hasn't quite happened yet, but I like to be underneath it. Like Mrs Visser, I saw what was in the AD. I also saw a moving letter yesterday from a mother about her husband, her son. It is all very sensitive, as was noted in Mr Bishop's contribution. I think we are all convinced that this screams for a solution that reduces the problem further. I have one motion, but I was a little hesitant to file her. The Minister for Security and Justice more or less made a commitment. I'm gonna file the motion anyway. Then I'll find out what the Minister thinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a group of persistent alcohol offenders, despite the imposition of fines or the taking of the driving licence, simply continues to drive on with alcohol;]] [[Whereas the seizure of the car could be an effective measure for this group to stop participating in traffic;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of confiscating the vehicle of persistent alcohol offenders during the period of disqualification from driving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-536]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u107	With the note that the judge, of course, is about it in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party waived his speaking time. The directors need five minutes to prepare the response, so I will suspend shortly. I make the suggestion that the Minister of Security and Justice will be the first to reply, because he has to leave at 12.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term comments. I'll start with the motion in part No. 532 members Van Helvert, Hoogland, Visser and others. In that motion I am asked to come to the Chamber with a proposal in which judges can impose a penalty, such as the alcohol lock, by means of customisation, with a personal approach to chronic drink drivers in traffic. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If it is adopted, then I am going to go on for a moment on the basis of what we are going to do. I'll come to the motion in part No. 534 by Mr Visser, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Hoogland. I have already said that I would like to include the declaration of invalidity of the driving licence in the investigation into the penalty measure. I will certainly discuss it with the judiciary and the prosecutor's office. I expect to be able to offer that investigation to the Chamber by the end of this year. Mrs Visser could consider holding the motion until the investigation is carried out, but I am also happy to leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion in part No. 536 of Mr Smaling, the Government is invited to examine the possibility of confiscating the vehicle of persistent alcohol offenders during the period of disqualification from driving. That's what I'd like to take with me in the investigation into that punishment measure. I could offer to take over the motion, but I do not know whether the members of the Chamber can agree to it. I see that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u110	The Smaling motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the motion by Mr Hoogland, Mr Visser and Mr Van Helvert on item No. 533 on the SWOV study. I already promised, but I want to do it again. I am prepared, on the basis of the recommendations of the research, to identify what elements we can incorporate into our policies and which elements should be included in the legislation and regulations. I have to consult with V and J, but especially with VWS, because much is in that preventive angle. So if I'm gonna make it by the end of this year, I don't know. Let me take a look at Mr Hoogland, the first signatory of the motion. If the proposers agree with the spring, then I will come up with this overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u112	We are looking at Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u113	I see Mr Hoogland waving his hand. I'll take that as a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u114	Hand swinging is "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u115	I'll come to the motion in part No. 535 by Mrs Visser, Mr Hoogland and Mr Van Helvert, the same members in a different order. They ask me to re-examine the lower limit of the limit of the limit in the driving capacity study. As an example, 1.3 is mentioned. So it could also be lower. Notoire drinkers would be shown earlier, which would allow effective measures to be taken. I have already promised this during the debate. I consider the motion to support the policy. The Chamber should see what it does with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u116	What is the Minister's deadline for this? I specifically linked the motion to the fact that the alcohol lock programme is no longer being imposed. Mr Smaling asked a question in the first place which was not really answered clearly. The group of 900 participants now has no alcohol lock program. Are we prepared to look again at whether all these people are capable of driving in the letter, writes the Minister that she does not want to see the whole target group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u117	I expect the Trimbos Institute, which I have commissioned, to be ready in the spring. Of course, I have to take a look at that result. Let us assume the same deadline as the one I have just dealt with: I will come up with a response in the spring. Then there is the question of whether I want to see what potential costs there are, for example if we are about to get professional cases or something like that. As far as I can tell, I'll send those charges to the Chamber. I suggest that we do so in the letter with all the other information. You are now asking whether all persons can be assessed for fitness to drive. We have made another choice, namely not to re-call those who volunteered for an alcohol lock because they still want to be able to use their car, bear the costs and have passed the deadline. Those who have not done so and who have already heard from us that they will not get their license back will not get their licence back even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u118	To clarify my second question, it is not just about costs. A number of lawyers this morning suggested that there would be all kinds of claims. We are also now in a kind of interim period because the Court has declared that it wants to look at the transfer to criminal law. However, I tabled the motion because it states that this is important in order to prevent us from having to face all kinds of legal claims, because it is not possible now, but the Chamber has said that it wants to. So there is some kind of intermediate phase and that is why I am not just asking about the numbers. I would like to know which angels and clamps are still in the file and which the Chamber should take into account. I am also doing that to enable the Chamber to do something if there is still a need for a ruling. After all, we do not want taxpayers to bear the costs because they have all kinds of legal hooks and eyes. I call on the Minister to inform us about this and to put the ball down to us if it turns out that we still have to make a ruling in order to prevent taxpayers from paying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u119	I will. I'm just gonna map out the legal risks. So far, the judge has spoken a few times about this, for example when we found that we had to stop with the ASP because it could not be covered by administrative law. The judge then ruled that the old imposed measures were simply valid. There will now be more people who are going to try to make this a case in this interbellum. I am happy to make an assessment of this and I will give the Chamber what the possible consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u120	This suggests you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u121	I feel like I'm ready, but of course the Chamber has the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u122	You know how to put that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u123	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I thank the two rulers. I am glad that the Minister for Security and Justice has been able to be present until the end of this debate. I shall suspend until the clock of 1.30 p.m. and then we will have an arrangement of work.
