ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the presentation of the 2015 Annual Report of the National Ombudsman. I have not seen applause at the swearing-in, nor have I seen Members of Parliament. I would like to welcome the National Ombudsman, Mr Van Zutphen. Of course, I would also like to welcome the substitute Ombudsman, Mrs Sylvester, and the newly sworn Children's Ombudsman, Mrs Kalverboer. The Court considers it important that the 2015 Annual Report of the National Ombudsman receives the attention it deserves. That is why it is being offered in plenary. This is happening for the ninth time today, but you, Mr Van Zutphen, are experiencing this for the first time. This also applies to all of us, including the Registrar and me, Mrs Sylvester and Mrs Kalverboer. Mr Van Zutphen, I would like to give you the opportunity to present and explain the 2015 Annual Report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the 2015 Annual Report of the National Ombudsman, as well as about the 2015 Veteran Ombudsman's 2015 Activity Report. Before I do so, I should like to say a few words about the swearing-in of Mrs Kalverboer as a Kinderombudsman. I very much hope that with her swearing-in there will be an end to a short but intense period of turmoil in which doubts have been expressed about the continuity and independence of the institute Kinderombudsman. We welcome Mr Kalverboer with great enthusiasm and confidence. Her in-depth knowledge of children's rights and the way in which she will actively involve children in her work already justify the conclusion that she will give the children a voice here and in the Caribbean Netherlands. The fact that Mrs Kalverboer's swearing-in may coincide with the offering of the National Ombudsman's 2015 Annual Report is, in my opinion, a symbol of how the National Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman will increase over the coming years. Everyone will do so on the basis of their own instructions laid down in the law. In the 2015 Annual Report of the National Ombudsman, I emphasise in several ways that it is of the utmost importance for citizens that governments ensure the citizens' perspective in every action. That may sound a bit shady or abstract at first hearing, but it is not. Almost every report in the last year discusses the situations and problems of citizens who have failed to fulfil this obligation. One time it is about the unrespected unattended foot, which puts someone even further in debt, and the other time it is about too short a kitchen table so that no good domestic support can be given. In many of the reports it can be read that the ability to move in the personal circumstances of the citizen was not present or insufficiently present. I consider it my duty to make it heard from me wherever things go wrong between the citizen and the government. Of course, I will do so in the individual cases, in order to contribute to solving the problems presented. But I will also do so to enable governments to learn from mistakes they made themselves and from mistakes made by others. The guarantee of the citizen's perspective is also reflected in the investigations that we carried out on our own. The reports on the pgbs and hostages show what happens to citizens when systems become more important than citizens and problems. I believe that both reports make it crystal clear where the government can do better and where it should do better. In many cases, digitisation, automation and the fight against fraud play a prominent role. Looking at the citizens with whom we are in contact, I do not see that there are seasoned fraudsters. On the contrary, it is almost always people who want to participate, who want to participate, but who are not able to participate for some reason. Characteristic is that, if they respond to the call for active participation and take responsibility for their situation, they will be excluded or punished administratively when they make a mistake or make a mistake. Think, for example, of completing a detailed form, which is difficult. Society is changing rapidly and digitalisation is strengthening that acceleration. As a national ombudsman, I will be putting forward the bourgeois perspective over and over again over and over again in the coming years. I will not do that to prevent the change, but I will do that to ensure that everyone can go along with the changes and that people are watching for the citizens who cannot come along. Attention to the socially vulnerable, to the low-literate, to people with disabilities, and to the elderly, I will continue to demand from all governments. The government must be there for all citizens. In the word "must" the assignment is hidden. We want a society in which everyone can participate. In order to shape this society, citizens should be called upon to take an active attitude. This can only be done if the government actually guarantees the citizen's perspective and has an eye for those who miss the connection. I believe that the authorities in the Netherlands are capable of doing so. It requires a lot: on the one hand, work decisively towards digitisation and the creation of systems that benefit citizens, but also the government itself, while at the same time ensuring that people do not get out. The National Ombudsman sees a task for himself to encourage governments to look at the provision of services to citizens in a different way. The good cooperation with and between a range of public authorities, as I saw at my own table in the investigation into the hostage situation, is a striking example of this. At that table we looked together for improvements. Improvements which, on the one hand, make the system work more effectively and, on the other hand, lead to improvements in the provision of services to citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u3	Will you conclude, Mr Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u4	The report and the recommendations are therefore shared. In the meantime, this has led to a considerably better functioning system, in which there is also room for an adequate solution to the problems of individual citizens. The letter from the Secretary of State to the Chamber following the report and the measures announced in it promise much good. We will closely monitor the implementation of these measures and, where necessary, let them be heard from us. Madam President, I'm finishing up. In the relationship between citizen and government goes a lot well, but sometimes things go horribly wrong. The task of the National Ombudsman is both to appoint what goes well, and to examine critically where it goes wrong, to say what it is about and to make recommendations. His recommendations should be based on serious research and contribute to the improvement and restoration of public confidence in the government. In my first year I have experienced that critical reports from the Ombudsman are not always appreciated, but are taken seriously. With this experience in our hands, we will continue on the path we have taken, a road that leads to a government that knows that it must be there for all citizens. It goes without saying that I would be happy to discuss with the Chamber the report of the National Ombudsman on 2015 and the report of the Veteran Ombudsman's work in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u5	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
