ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. They're shocking findings. Media worldwide, including Het Financieele Dagblad and Trouw in The Netherlands, will present the results of their research on the Panama Papers on Sunday. It involves more than 11 million leaked files from a company in Panama that helps rich people and companies to evade tax through letterbox companies. Unfortunately, many Dutch companies are also included. If you have enough money to be properly advised, you can apparently evade one of the most essential obligations to the State. That is untenable and, above all, unfair. The IRS called it "interesting" yesterday. As far as D66 is concerned, that should be much firmer. I want everyone who has drawn money and kept it hidden to be dealt with. That is why I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Can he guarantee that this will happen? He can also guarantee that the Tax Administration has sufficient capacity for this. If not, I'd like to hear it from the cabinet today. D66 doesn't want to make cowardly settlements. If you don't want to hear it, feel it. In recent years, there have been several warnings of practices in the trust sector. D66 said in 2013 that anti-fraud policies in the trust sector look good on paper but are not enforced in practice. The cabinet already promised in 2013: we're going to do better. Two weeks ago, unfortunately, a report by the Dutch Bank showed that it is still a mess in enforcement. We are once again hearing great words from the Labour Party in the media, but why has legislation been waiting for three years? When will PvdA Minister Dijsselbloem finally come forward with a bill? I would like to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's about the Panama Papers. First of all, a compliment for journalism is in order here. There was also a small shout at the Tax Administration when there were no birthdays to celebrate in the department at that time, because information is something that the Tax Administration can get away with. We saw that a few years ago with the offshore leaks. We understand from the journalists that this information will become available after a month or two. The last time there was a bit of a whining on our part, but this information becomes available. It is striking that this is not at all about the proverbial large companies that use differences between systems. The suggestion is that at least there may also be parties of a very different signature and a very different size, and that it is not necessarily a question of tax avoidance but perhaps even of tax evasion or fraud. However, you will not be guilty until that has been established after a proper investigation. Nobody's guilty in advance. I'm sure we'll get on with the information. A special team has been set up to do that. That kind of special action has also been very successful in the past. Since 2011, efforts have been made on countries with low tariffs. Dozens of people have been directly involved and hundreds of people have been indirectly involved in this. We have had the action against black savers, also on the basis of information. The proceeds will not be far from the billion. We have separate private assets, and I think we have a similar amount of money. If you put a special team on the information you're getting, that could get you a lot. Here's that team over, and it's reason to adjust the capacity to what eventually comes up. That is a clear matter. At the trust, DNB is a supervisor. The legislation has been tightened up a few times, recently on 1 January 2015. However, this should be done better. There is still the Supervisory Trust Office Act, a further tightening is foreseen and before the summer there is the consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	If I hear the Secretary of State correctly, he'll have enough capacity to do this for the next few months. This morning I read in Trouw that only 56 requests for information have been made to tax havens in the last year. Hence my question: is there sufficient capacity in the Tax Administration to actively address this and give priority to it? It concerns 11 million cases involving a few hundred Dutch companies. I would like an explicit answer to that, yes or no. The second point concerns the trust sector. It is good that there will be a legislative proposal for this and as far as D66 is concerned it will be in this Chamber as soon as possible, preferably before 1 July. We have been facing problems in the trust sector for a number of years. It is not about the substance provisions, because they have been adapted in recent years, but it is about very basic characteristics such as knowing which company you do business with as a trust company. There are many cases of laundering or fraudulent practices, but these companies do not know who they are dealing with. I would also like to comment on this. Can't we go a little faster? This debate is wider than just letterbox companies. Last week, a motion from the SP was passed and D66 together forcing companies to disclose how much tax they pay in any country. You'll see immediately which companies don't pay taxes at all. That must be made public, because I believe in the power of angry consumers, who can vote with their feet. If I don't want to get coffee from the Starbucks because that company barely pays taxes, I'll go to the place around the corner. I need to know if and how much tax is being paid. Can the Secretary of State confirm that he is going to make haste with the implementation of this motion of the SP and D66 and that he is going to do all he can during our Presidency in the coming months to settle this European issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	I will start with the latter, and I will start with the speed train, because the chairman is always looking very closely at me. The Commission is now making a move in the field of country-by-country reporting in the public sense, and that will be one of these weeks. There is a great deal of momentum behind this type of dossier, and this could be the subject of the first discussion. That's faster than it's ever been, and we're closer than we've ever been. With regard to the exchange of information, I note that it was indeed those 56 requests for information. An information exchange request is also an instrument. In a lot of cases, you're investigating things from the previous lists and the previous teams. You don't even have to go to the country, but you go to the taxpayer to ask what's going on. Often you get the information already and those information requests are not necessary. After all, it is about the proceeds and I have just mentioned rather firm yields. With regard to the trust funds, I know that I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Mr Dijsselbloem, that there is no other acceleration than that the consultation will take place before the summer. That's a useful habit and it's fast, but I understand the impatience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finalizing, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	There is indeed a great deal of impatience on this side to do something about it quickly, also given DNB's report two weeks ago. The last point I want to make is that we need to address this problem internationally; tax evasion is, by definition, a global problem. D66 wants the Netherlands to take the lead in this. Last year, together with GroenLinks, we tabled a motion to agree on a European tax base so that companies can no longer shift their profits. My final question is: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	That is also the Commission's move. This is certainly not out of the picture during this presidency. It is noted that the cases that appear to be taking place here do not suffer from a lack of uniform tax base.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	An elite of multinationals and millionaires stealing from society. I can't call it any other way. This moral theft of society means that workers will have to pay more taxes, which has meant that our care for the elderly, the fight against poverty and education have been cut for years. This has to stop! What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? Can he tell me what this does in society? How many teachers in primary education could we have appointed if this scandal had been dealt with? How many children could we have taken out of poverty if this scandal had been dealt with? How many elderly people could we have guaranteed good home care if this scandal had finally been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Roemer is questioning my unit of account a little bit with his question about the elderly. In such cases, there may be things that we consider very serious. It doesn't even have to be about tax avoidance, because it can also be very good about tax evasion. It could well be fraud. It can also be very good money laundering. It could be fake invoices and fake transactions. That could include criminal behavior. We don't like that, and that's what we're after. Once again, the Tax Administration and the FIOD have started to study this after a first shout. I am convinced that further information will be available in the near future. At some point, the entire file will be available. In the past, we have made grateful use of such things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	I wish. We always need leaks in order to have the debate here. The tax authorities and the investigating authorities did not investigate it themselves and were given the opportunity to discuss it. We are dealing with many years of discussions on tax avoidance, tax evasion and theft of society. Even worse: everyone knows and sees that the Netherlands is a playground of multinationals. I know, I am not allowed to say it here from 124 members of this Chamber, but I am doing it anyway: the Netherlands is a tax haven. That has been the case for years. Even now I hear from the Secretary of State: we do a bit of this, we do a bit of that. Meanwhile, our society is losing billions of tax revenues from multinationals and wealthy people, which means that we cannot tackle child poverty, maintain care for the elderly and cannot get enough teachers in class. Again, how do we get our money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	Only by going after it and also by realizing that this is not exclusively about multinationals. In fact, maybe that's the eye opener now. The data does not, in the first instance, show that these are multinationals. It seems a little like it's not about tax avoidance, it's about fraud, it's about crimes. That could be the point. So that's what we need to do. My only answer to Mr Roemer's question is to go after him. That's what the FIOD is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	It is understandable that D66 chooses the flight forward if it rejects motions that really tackle tax havens. I have two additional questions. The first is about the Team of Highly Powered Persons set up by the Tax Administration. Is this being used for this purpose and is its capacity sufficient to investigate the case of the Panama Papers? My second question is about country-by-country reporting. It is good to have openness about where companies pay taxes. This is progressing in Europe. However, it is a problem that this obligation applies only within Europe and not to tax havens. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue at European level that the disclosure of paid income tax will apply worldwide and not just to Europe? Otherwise, we don't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Team Very Powerful Persons will probably not be able to do this on their own. I am not going to give any text and explanation about the capacity allocation in the Tax Administration. Let us look at how we are doing this in a broad sense. That's a duty of the IRS. I agree with Mr Groot that country-by-country reporting can make an important contribution to this, especially internationally. Frankly, I would also like to point out that the common reporting standard should not be underestimated. The data we now receive through journalism is automatically available at some point. This type of data is automatically exchanged between tax administrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, Mr. Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	I can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	I would ask the Secretary of State to answer a question that has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	I asked whether this disclosure of tax payments would also apply worldwide and whether the Secretary of State would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	The question to Mr Groot is then whether it is public... But then it will be a long debate. For the time being, the public country-by-country reporting may be an initiative that the European Commission is about to take. It is reasonable to assume that it would be much more useful for us to do so worldwide. That seems to me to be a very logical next step, but first let us fight this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u20	We already knew that the PvdA forgot her promises one day after the election. Apparently, she now feels so under pressure that PvdA Minister Dijsselbloem has not been able to deal with letterbox companies for three years in order to wrongly take others into account. A weakness offer from the PvdA, who has been holding government responsibility for three years. My question is another one. I notice in all the debates on tax avoidance, including this week with the Panama Papers, that it is deafeningly silent in the Malie Tower. That is where the top of the Dutch business community sits and it seems to have been dived to find the largest meeting table that has been found. Is the Secretary of State prepared, like his colleague in Norway, to take the summit of business to the Ministry of Finance and agree that we are now going to vote against this type of construction and pay for responsible taxes? It is deafeningly quiet in the Malie Tower and other countries take action to their business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u21	I believe that I have heard the VNO summit in the media several times from unauthorized tax practices. They will not embrace fraud and money laundering. I once found the NOB chairman on the front page of the FD with statements about letterbox companies. Let us place them in the role in which they have placed themselves and give them some respect for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Van Weyenberg, you had two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u23	My question was whether VNO will be invited by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u24	I see VNO regularly on all kinds of issues and I will certainly mention tax avoidance once, but without suggesting that VNO would approve all of this. I know the views of VNO. VNO is in favour of doing business fairly, and I think that has been expressed in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u25	Will you come back to this point with a letter or a response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u26	No, I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u27	I see that a number of Members of Parliament have more questions, but in view of Question Time they are no longer able to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Chairman. A debate will be requested shortly. Then we're gonna ask questions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u29	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u30	Faithful and the FD, as well as other newspapers, also internationally, have managed to do what our Tax Administration has not managed to do, namely to get the names of people who use these routes to channel their capabilities. Can the Secretary of State promise that, now that we have those names, he will also make every effort to ensure that those people pay their taxes in the Netherlands, where they should be paid? Can he tell those people he'll be chasing them until the last euro is paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u31	It is always difficult to determine what the last euro is, but this is precisely the use of the Tax Administration. In previous cases, it has been systematically examined. The whole list has been started. It also turns out that a large number of people simply indicated it in the Netherlands. It's possible. It's not against the law to keep money abroad, as long as you give it up properly. This has been demonstrated in a large number of cases. We must separate the good from the evil, and that requires care. The answer is of course: this is exactly what the Tax Administration was created for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u32	I stand up for that 99.9% of the Dutch who just report and pay their taxes here. If I listen to the SP's electoral rhetoric, the Netherlands would be a tax haven. Then it is very strange that those individuals who mean evil and hide their money, do so outside the Netherlands! Oh, what a tax haven we are! If what the SP says was true, those pennies would stay here. Can the Secretary of State promise that there will be no repentance for those who mean evil and are now being investigated, if we have found out what has happened, and that this time it will become just taking, penance, interest, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u33	Let me not explain the right enforcement and enforcement strategies out of the loose wrist. I would like to talk to the Chamber about this at the end, if it has been properly thought out, but I do not think it is right to take a path now which may not be the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u34	The Secretary of State indicated that the FIOD and its officials jumped a hole in the air when they heard of this leak. In order to really collect, as everyone here wants, the FIOD and the Tax Administration must of course have the original database of 11.5 million documents, so that they not only find out from the newspaper who is hanging from the tall tree. We also want to be able to impose a post-tax on the less well-known cases, which do not make the news, or else we want to be able to find out whether they have been evaded or declared, as the Secretary of State rightly pointed out. This has been going on for months. Has there been any consultation between the tax authorities of the European Union and the newspapers to get access to these lists as soon as possible and to use them as a whole in order to make the last penny for collection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u35	There has been a great deal of consultation in the past, but I think that is why the newspapers have already taken a position on this issue before. I understand from the newspaper Trouw that it is the intention to publish the data after about two months, so that the Tax Administration can have all the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u36	Unfortunately, Mr Omtzigt, I cannot give you the floor again. Mr Rog had already used a question on behalf of your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u37	It is good that tax evasion, fraud and money laundering are being tackled very hard. I understand the Secretary of State is going to do the same. The IRS is going to investigate. It is still unclear when that could be done. We think it should be speeded up. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? Furthermore, the Netherlands Bank (DNB) has announced that it will investigate money laundering in paid football. Given everything that has come up now, we think it is right that DNB should look not only at money laundering in paid football but also at the trust offices more broadly. Can the Secretary of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u38	I do not have DNB on a string, but the intention is that the investigation into money laundering in the paid football for the summer will lead to results. It is not for nothing that I am not talking about the priorities within DNB, but I think they listen in and hear the wish of the Chamber to track down thugs. We will, of course, keep at the fastest possible pace, but we will do so responsibly. Things need to be figured out. That's a lot of international stuff. In some cases, weeks or months, but in some cases also years, may pass. We all know that getting the law through the IRS may take a while, but there's no dragging around. However, due care requires that we do it neatly, because we are a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u39	Can you give me a deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u40	No, because then I would rule on unknown cases that have not yet reached the surface, which I do not know in numbers and of which I cannot predict the course of proceedings. In previous cases, the extreme cases have lasted several years and the easier cases have lasted several months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you.
