ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister in our midst, like his officials, and, of course, I would also like to welcome Members. Seven speakers have signed up, with varying speaking time. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Bishop. In between, I say that Kiki Bertens has reached the semi-finals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. "In view of the need, at a time when the Netherlands will once again, as in ancient times, be enlivened by commerce and visited by many foreigners, to make firm provisions concerning the work of passports, and to avoid, in the course of the settlement thereof, some of the security of the state and the right order demands, but also, on the other hand, anything which, in any case, reflects that spirit of torture and inquisition, which has characterized the reign of these last years," King Willem I decided to pass to the first Passport Act in 1813. Apart from the exact wording, the meaning of this introductory phrase is in fact still topical: the security of the State, the right order, without a hint of torment or inquisition, an appropriate establishment. That was what the King was at the time personally more active on this file than at the moment...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is also what we, as a legislative body, must now bear in mind. The present proposal is a necessary follow-up to the Anti-Terrorism Act, which has now been adopted in the Lower House. If an exit ban has been imposed, the passport should also automatically expire. Let me start with the conclusion: the SGP supports this proposal, but we still have four points on which we have some questions and comments. The first point. Is this optional or compulsory control? If a person's passport has been declared invalid but the person in question has not yet surrendered the passport, Dutch border guards can consult the systems. Here's what it says: "Can." We therefore conclude that this does not happen automatically. The protection of safety depends on the use of these systems. According to the government, it is the standard procedure at Schiphol that the information systems are controlled, but elsewhere in the documents it is stated that systematic monitoring of national and European databases is not possible. What's the deal, anyway? Is the Minister able to remove this ambiguity? What systematic control possibilities are there now abroad and which are not? The SGP wonders whether it would be better for it to be laid down by law that the control of all systems is necessary and that consultation of the systems is an integral part of the control. Furthermore, although it may be the usual procedure at Schiphol Airport, does this obligation also apply in ports and other airports or in routine police checks near the Dutch border? How does it work in practice? The second point concerns double passports. Most of the current travellers have dual nationality and therefore a second passport. When the Dutch passport has expired, the jihadganger.... still has the possibility to use his second passport. If an exit ban has been imposed, it will be included in the national search register, but also here the question arises as to whether the register should be consulted. If this does happen and someone travels with his second passport, then the question is whether there is a connection in the system with the expired document. Therefore, if the expiry and the foreign passport are linked together, the question is concrete. Does the expired document automatically show up at a check? This question is particularly important because the second nationality is no longer registered. Then how can that clutch be there? The third point is to move abroad. It becomes a lot more difficult when someone first travels to Germany or Belgium with his expired, but not surrendered passport. There's a good chance he'll be able to get on the plane there unnoticed. Real access to the registers by the authorities of transit countries or at the border of the Schengen area is not guaranteed. This is even more true when we have arrived at the Turkish border in the meantime. The rather pressing question is whether the exit ban is enforceable or not. The fourth point: only the Netherlands? The government indicates that it is not possible to carry out systematic border controls. In her view, therefore, it would not be possible to limit the replacement travel document only to the Netherlands. But that is the case in Germany, France and Belgium. The SGP wants replacement travel documents to be as limited as possible. It is not for nothing that the passport has been taken away, namely because of its security. That is why I have Mrs De Caluwe's amendment to item No. 10 co-signed. If we do not do this, there will be no effective action against travellers travelling through Germany, for example. For example, if someone crosses the border, it can be found, when checked by the police, that the person is a suspect and does not have a valid passport and therefore has the endorsement on his identity card. I look forward to the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the attacks in Brussels, it became painfully clear how Ibrahim El Bakraoui was arrested at the Syrian border as a suspect in terrorist activities, but also how he could then easily travel from Turkey to Brussels via Amsterdam, hide in Molenbeek and prepare for a bloody attack there. It became clear that there was a lack of cooperation between countries, especially between secret services. In the recent debates on attacks, I have missed the Minister of the Interior, while he is the first to be responsible for the action of the AIVD and for cooperation with other services. I would like the Minister to be present at these debates next time. The Government shall automatically withdraw the passport or identity card of persons who are subject to an exit ban. This exit ban is one of the measures contained in the Temporary Administrative Measures Act, which we have recently discussed here. We voted against that law because the Minister of Justice can impose this measure without the intervention of the judge. If possible attackers return from the Middle East or stand up in our own country, they must, as far as we are concerned, participate in a closed programme for deradicalisation, but always with a judicial test. We are still waiting for the Roemer/Zijlstra motion to be implemented (29754, no. 337) to examine all the Salafist organizations active in the Netherlands and to make a list of these organizations public. I am also particularly curious to see which Salafist organisations have received subsidies in the past or have been given a role in the failed integration policy. Back to the law. At the moment, the passport can be withdrawn and the issue of a new passport can be refused, but potential terrorists can also travel through the Schengen area without a passport. The problem is, moreover, that passports are not systematically checked at the borders of the Schengen countries. In practice, it appears that potential terrorists also do not need a passport to travel to Syria or to travel back. And it's not gonna be any different with this law. However, a passport will automatically lapse without judicial review. This seems to be a symbolic measure, but it is not. This change of law does indeed undermine the rule of law. Faced with the danger of terrorism, we must not weaken the rule of law, but continue to strengthen it. One more thing. In the current procedure for withdrawing a passport, the Minister for the Interior has a role to play. But dropping the passport will soon be the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. Again a new competence, as I have seen over the last ten years: police and justice, the approach to radicalisation, the fight against terrorism, the direction of secret services, cooperation with other countries, the Ministry of Justice does everything and does everything badly. All these tasks have gone beyond this ministry's control. It also sheds more and more with the separation of powers. I would like a response from the Minister responsible for constitutional matters. If this law achieves a majority in this Chamber, and also in the Upper Chamber, it will be without our support. However, I would like to draw attention to the position of officials in municipalities where potential terrorists have to hand in their passports. I seriously wonder if a terrorist is prepared to comply with this civic duty. If that is the case, I would really prefer this potential terrorist not to report to the municipal desk, but to the police station.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. It makes sense for me to have an exit ban followed by the expiry of travel documents. In this respect, this bill is a logical consequence of the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. In an earlier version, the bill we are discussing today was still permanent, while the exit ban is included in a temporary law. Following a question from my group, the Minister modified it. Both are now temporary. Thank you for that. Thanks also for the overview of the grounds for refusal and decay. I still have a few questions about effectiveness and legal protection. If someone with an exit ban reports to a border checkout, what exactly happens? If it is in the Netherlands, the exit ban has not yet been breached. Under the Schengen Information System (SIS II), arrest may not be allowed, the government writes. But I suppose they won't let this potential jihadist go through if he takes a flight to Schiphol Airport to Turkey. If the person signs up for a flight in Germany, can the German customs arrest him? How are such cases included in the Schengen Information System? Is there a need to change the relevant rules in order to effectively enforce the exit ban and this bill? What solutions have other European countries chosen for this? What else is being done to get a expired travel document back in the possession of the State? It seems to me, like Mr Van Raak, that a potential jihadist should come by on request. I also hope that someone like that doesn't come by there, but that he's been arrested. The Minister intends to involve the police in this. After handing over the exit ban personally, the travel documents would be included equally. How much FTE is involved in this? How does the police catch this? Then there's legal protection. An exit ban can be imposed by mistake. The damage will have been done. A trip has been cancelled and a passport or ID card has been declared invalid, and I am not talking about the personal, emotional damage, which is of course also at issue. It seems to me that the State will have to pay for the damage suffered proactively. Legal protection also means that the old situation, the situation you were in before the government made a mistake and unjustly limited your rights, will be restored. The law and the written answer to our questions leave some doubts. The explanatory memorandum merely states that a provision can be made for the unjustified costs incurred. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a "can," it's a "must." The costs of replacing documents and applying for new regular travel documents should therefore be reimbursed. Any additional costs must also be reimbursed; I am thinking, for example, of unusable visas or a cancelled journey. What is the Minister's commitment to this? He's right to try to prevent jihadists from travelling out. He is taking action in this respect, but it is not possible to rule out the fact that it goes wrong in an individual case. Then we must also be brave enough to take our losses and fully compensate someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. This is the third debate we have devoted to this matter. This debate is, of course, more focused on the issues relating to this department. In all these debates, meetings and AO's, my group has taken a clear and simple position, which is contrary to what the cabinet is in favour of. We welcome it when jihadists leave the country and do their disgusting work elsewhere, in accordance with their ideology. It's annoying, but rather there than here. We must ensure that they do not come back. Good riddance. We wish them a lot of fun with their 72 virgins. Unfortunately, the cabinet is otherwise opposed to this. It wants to keep these people within Schengen with their terrible ideas and plans. In all its goodness, this cabinet wants to do a little service to these jihadists. The cabinet is going to provide them with an ID card. That's a weird thing. We therefore expect the honourable jihadists to report to the town hall in order to be served there by the community. It's all too crazy for words. This cabinet is also concerned about the stigmatizing effect this identification card could have. Yes, as a hardworking jihadist you may have been in a training camp to learn how to blow up children or otherwise serve Islam. This cabinet is concerned about the good name and fame of these people and fears a stigmatizing effect for these jihadists. The interests of the Dutch people are elsewhere, you might say. An example from practice is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u6	Before you continue, ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u7	Please, before I move on to another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u8	...The Caluwe has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u9	I understand that Mr Bosma does not want radicalised potential terrorists coming back from Syria. Isn't it better not to let them travel? Then they will not find themselves in a situation where they can learn things that they can apply here. Then we will prevent it from getting worse from evil to worse. After all, you can't stop them from coming back. That's an illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u10	No. First of all, here in the Netherlands, you have to tackle Islam very hard, because that is the problem. So you have to de-islamize. You must do everything in this country to counter Islam, a fascist, totalitarian, aggressive, murderous ideology. That's the first thing you have to do. In addition, you just have to let those people go away to the dar al-Islam, where they seem to feel at home and where they want to do the things they want to do. Then you have to make sure these people don't return. You can; just close the borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u11	I don't see any solution in this. I am only in favour of tackling real radicalisation. The words you spoke about Islam are not my words either. I'd say, let's make sure they don't go there, so they don't come back radicalized here. We need to tackle radicalisation in the Netherlands. It's an illusion to think that people won't come back once they've been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u12	It is regrettable that the VVD has so little confidence in the capabilities of the Dutch border device. If you just put the KMar, the margrassee, at the borders, you close it. It's not that hard. Another reality in practice is that many of these people, apart from Dutch nationality, also have the nationality of another country, such as Morocco or Turkey. What's to stop them from just traveling back and forth on that second passport? We keep them within Schengen because we're doing something about their way out here, but with their Moroccan passport they're just going into cozy country, out of the country. What does the Minister intend to do about it? And we don't even want to register that second nationality. Mr Van der Laan, who was once called the "Sharia Socialist" by my group, did not want that, because he was afraid that someday parties would come to power who could do wrong things with it. He said that in circumstantial terms, but Mr. Van der Laan didn't want us to register second nationalities. And now we see what comes of it: that whole exit ban is one big wash nose. Maybe in my second term I'll come up with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Van Raak just called to me in passing. It's always a consideration: do you deal with what the PVV says or not? I'm not doing that now, also because this law is actually a bit of a repetition of moves. We have already discussed this extensively, in particular the exit ban. This law has no independent meaning. It is about the exit ban and this law simply provides for administrative implementation. It has to be in a separate law, because it is a state law. Much in this debate is therefore double. When we talk about legal protection, we are talking about legal protection against an exit ban imposed by the government. Then the passport automatically lapses. There is little legal protection against this. Technically, I think it is, because maybe the computer made a mistake. You'd have to stand up to that. In practice, this would be dealt with at the same time. A judge doesn't have much time to test for the consequences of a state intervention. I don't have much to say. My group considers this implementing law to be proportionate: it concerns a six-month period and the invalidity of the passport can be renewed at any time. It is a good thing that the horizon clause, which was already in the other laws or has been amended in them, has been included in them by means of a letter of amendment. In short, this is a law that is necessary and which is not farther advanced than necessary. We had already established that the functioning of the law is limited. With a second passport in this case, you have an advantage over people with only one nationality. That has been reversed in relation to the previous law that we have dealt with. We could almost say that this is discriminatory, but good. How's it going in practice when you're at Schiphol with that second passport? The second passport does seem to be in the detection system, that OPS... I have all the abbreviations but written................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Is that right? How can this be improved? SIS II, the border control of the Schengen external borders, does not work with a standardized and continuous control of passports either, but it is possible to look at the system from time to time, not conspicuously, on which a silent notification to the country can follow. That doesn't seem very trusting. In short, there are holes in the system. It concerns national security, so anything that helps is good, provided proportionality is guaranteed. That's the case. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of this law. Finally, I have a question. Probably Mrs. De Caluwe comes up with that herself. I am simply curious to see what appreciation Mrs de Caluwe and Mr Bishop can obtain from the Minister. I doubt it myself. On the one hand, we simply have Schengen, so that does not mean border control. That also means that you can go to Germany with your ID. That identity card is, of course, necessary to comply with the identification requirement that we have here in the Netherlands. On the other hand, we don't want that. Then you think: if it is somewhat practical, let us indeed limit the operation of that identity card to the borders of the Netherlands. In short, I just can't weigh it properly yet. I would like to hear a more detailed explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u14	I see Mrs Van Toorenburg is already standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. We're so fast, I'd better get up right away. The present bill seems to be a formality. If an exit ban is imposed, of course a passport and an identity card must also lapse. But it is a little more than a formality, because we also have to look at the way in which the law is enforced. The effectiveness of the enforcement of this law, which is ultimately the indispensable link in the overall enforcement chain. We have asked in the report, at the written stage before this plenary debate, for the effectiveness of this law, for the effectiveness of a declaration that a passport is no longer valid because someone is no longer allowed to travel, while that person has another passport because he or she has a dual nationality. After all, that person has a document on which he or she can travel. The question is then, and this is in fact a follow-up to what we discussed in the other debate with the Minister of Security and Justice on the exit ban, whether the other country of nationality and the document of that person is also informed about this. We have had a discussion about this in the other debate, because it is possible that sometimes you do not want to, because it may have serious repercussions. On a motion from the CDA, the Chamber said that all of this could be done, but the principle must be that the other country is informed. Only in exceptional cases can it be decided not to inform the other country. We also want to be informed when other countries take action. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. An exit ban only makes sense, of course, if someone can actually be stopped properly. As far as we are concerned, the proposal of the VVD and the SGP may contribute to this, but then too, of course, the question is: are we going to do something at the border? It only makes sense when we check. At least that is what the Minister for Security and Justice said earlier. So it is a little special that we are having this debate again on that point. We have already exchanged this in the other debate. The Minister of Security and Justice was ready to do so. He said if we don't have border guards here, there's no point. I'd like to hear from this minister how he looks at it. The Minister states in the note following the report in response to a question from the CDA Group that Interpol has different instruments. One of these instruments is the SLTD database, the database of Stolen and Lost Travel Documents, or stolen and missing travel documents, which is actively used by the Turkish authorities. Then a statement that a passport has expired also has effect. Can the Minister answer that? I still have questions about that after all the signals about weather travelers. Especially when the Minister states that there is a substantial chance with this possibility that travel is made impossible. Is it really true that this opportunity is substantial? France has been banned from exit since 2015, Germany has been banned from exit since mid-2015 and Belgium has since early 2016. In all these countries, the enforcement of the exit ban stands or falls with effective international cooperation, even now. We'd love to hear about that from the Minister. What does he expect from that? We can support this proposal, but let us be. With this, with this proposal alone, we're not gonna win the war. But it's part of it, and it's an international obligation we have to do this. The real question is, of course, what do we do with people who have eventually been stopped? What do we do with these people in the Netherlands? That is a fair question to the Minister of the Interior. I think it is important to ask another question on this issue when dealing with this legislative proposal. Mr Recourt was right to point out that, in response to an interruption by the PVV, he did not wish to repeat the whole debate. But we also do not support the idea of "cross the border, go your divine course there and we hope you do not return to do something about it". We also do not want people there to develop those skills. We also want the children in those towns and villages to be safe. We simply need to prevent someone from committing this diseased terror and learning from it. So this means they shouldn't go. The PVV has rightly indicated that not registering the dual nationality is something special. I think we need to consider whether we should reconsider this, if it has not already been reconsidered on parts. Has it actually been carried out in such a way that we stand a little bit with our hands in the air at that point? I would like to ask the Minister: is it not appropriate, given all the threats and all the problems and the laws we have already passed on the exit ban and in view of this bill coming up, to reconsider that? Unless I didn't understand correctly that it wasn't done that way. But then I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u16	Finally, Mrs De Caluwe from the VVD Group has the floor from the Chamber. I would point out that the Minister intends to respond immediately, which we very much appreciate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mr. Chairman. The present amendment to the Passport Act initially seemed to be a rather simple formality. Colleagues have already referred to this. The purpose of this amendment was to implement the measures laid down in the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. It's all very technical, but what is it really about? We want to prevent radicalising young people from travelling to battle areas such as Syria to return later as a terrorist. After the attacks of Paris and Brussels, people are afraid that an attack can happen here too. Family members and friends of radicalising young people are incredibly afraid that their neighbors are going to fight in Syria. We must do everything we can to prevent this, in the interests of the safety of the Netherlands. The aim of the measures we are now discussing is to stop extravagants from returning as radicalised terrorists. I thank the Minister for the often clear answers to the questions we have asked. It was a lot of questions. I'm not really comfortable with it, and I'm gonna fall right into the house with the door. One thing is clear after the review of all the accompanying documents: the objective to be achieved is not achieved by the proposed legislative amendment. At least not yet. Let me give a brief outline of the results of the proposed measures. A radicalising youngster gets an exit ban. He's applying for a replacement ID. With this map you can't travel directly from Netherlands to Turkey. You can't do that with your Turkish passport, because you can't go to Schiphol with that anymore. But a Syrian can take the plane from the Netherlands without interruption to Greece, for example to Rhodes. From Rhodes you can go within half an hour it is only five kilometers with a chartered boat to Marmaris on the other side. It's in Turkey. It's a few miles and it's as simple as that. When you have a Turkish passport as a radicalised youngster alongside Dutch nationality.. the majority of the extra-travelers have a double nationality... it becomes much easier. You're booking a ticket from Düsseldorf to Gaziantep. That lies on the border between Turkey and Syria. You travel with your replacement Dutch identity card to Düsseldorf and then check in with your Turkish passport. The German passport check can see that you have an exit ban, but can't stop you. The only thing a German officer can do is to give a discreet alert to the Dutch authorities that you have travelled on the Turkish passport and where you have travelled. It will take several months to adapt the Schengen Information System, the SIS, at European level, so that you cannot travel from other Schengen countries with a second passport. But then you do not face the problem of free travel up to the threshold of Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u18	I was not looking at the interrupting microphone, but there is Mr Bosma with a question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u19	It is an excellent example that is being presented here. The example is also made worse, because in the Netherlands, for politically correct reasons, we do not want to keep track of which people besides the Dutch passport also have a foreign nationality, and therefore also have to serve a foreign gentleman. We do not want to know that, all of which is stigmatizing, racist and discriminatory. Would it not be good if we were to record in the Netherlands which Dutch people also have a foreign passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u20	We are only dealing with the Dutch passports. We're not about the Turkish passports. We can say that someone who has another passport should not be allowed to travel with it either. You can report that on the alert, but we're not about a foreign passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u21	No one's saying we're about a foreign passport either. We are talking about whether or not we want to register in the Netherlands which people who have the nationality of the Kingdom of the Netherlands also have a foreign passport. You can just capture that. That was a long time ago, but Mr Van der Laan did not want to. It was discriminatory, it was racism. I don't know if Sylvana Simons was already out there, but it wasn't allowed, because it wasn't politically correct. We can change that very easily. The CDA seems to be a bit on that line, but can we also count on the support of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u22	That doesn't add anything at the moment. The point is that we are trying not to let people leave and do everything we can to do that. We can take measures relating to our own nationality and to our own passports. We can also indicate that someone has another passport when it is detected. By registering a second nationality, you do not receive terrorism, you cannot do anything with it at the moment. In the context of this, it is very little use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u23	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u24	My question to the Minister is whether he cannot replace the text on the replacement document. If you can travel to Greece now, you can also go to Turkey very simply. If the replacement document does not say "valid within the Schengen area', but "valid only for identification within the borders of the Netherlands', then you can say to someone who signs up in Düsseldorf to get on a plane, no, you have an exit ban, you are not going to Greece. Then we have already prevented a part of the journey. To be sure, I tabled an amendment together with Mr Bishop of the SGP to limit the validity of the replacement identity card to the European territory of the Netherlands, just as Germany, Belgium and France do with their exit bans. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already mentioned this. Why do these countries do that, when as a Dutchman you have the right to travel within Schengen? Germany signals people who are still leaving the country at Interpol. That is not a guarantee, but much better than letting people travel from the Netherlands without interruption to the Turkish border. So you get a faster alert and you might be able to stop people earlier. At the same time, I call on the Minister to agree at Schengen on stopping people who are banned from leaving one of the Schengen countries on the basis of terrorism. Finally, I would like to conclude by asking a few smaller questions. If the Minister of Justice decides on an exit ban, how much time is there between the decision and the physical intake of the passport or ID? We need to stop someone from leaving the country before they have to turn in their passport. How quickly can the replacement identity card be developed? It's not here yet. Is it available as soon as the law change is through? My last question. The Minister writes that ICT adjustments are needed in the passport registration system. What's it gonna take and when's it gonna be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u25	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations will answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u26	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Recourt said, the reason why we are working on a separate legislative path lies in the fact that all the other measures in the counter-terrorism package could be part of the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism, which Mr Van der Steur defended here in the Chamber and which the House of Representatives approved two weeks ago. Since the Passport Act is a state law, the Kingdom of the Netherlands has more countries than only the Netherlands, it needs a separate legislative process, it is discussed in the National Council of Ministers instead of in the Council of Ministers, and it needs to be dealt with separately. The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has the lead in the Passport Act. That's why I have the honor of defending this bill here. But it is indeed an intrinsic part of the package recently defended by Mr Van der Steur and adopted by the House of Representatives. I realise that not all parties in the Chamber voted in favour. That is precisely why I want to be precise in my answer and really confine myself to matters relating to the BZK portfolio. However, a number of questions have been asked: enforcement, implementation, Schengen and border controls, which are in the area of Mr van V and Mr J. I have the impression that he speaks to you on a regular basis. I have just been informed that even on 8 June there is another consultation with my colleague on the Schengen Information System (SIS). So the questions that really relate to V and J's portfolio could perhaps be discussed on that occasion. I would like to reply to the other portfolio involvement I have in the fight against terrorism, namely that of the General Intelligence and Security Service. I always like to talk about this, of course, when the Chamber invites me to do so, but when dealing with this temporary law, the Chamber logically invited the minister who has the lead, and that is the colleague of V and J. He has answered a number of points on my behalf, including questions relating to the AIVD. But I always like to come here, so if Mr Van Raak wishes to invite me on occasion, we will do so. As has been said, the Passport Act is an intrinsic part of the temporary law that was adopted here two weeks ago and which is now before the Supreme Court. When answering questions, I will ensure that different choices are made in the implementation or in the handling of the Passport Act than in the handling of the temporary law. In fact, both proposals will be before the First Chamber and we all have an interest in ensuring that there is no confusion about the intentions of the Cabinet and of the House of Representatives on that point. I shall come back to that in a moment on individual points. No one would want any delay or misunderstanding in this. In that sense, I think that we should join in with the buttons that were cut through on a number of points by the House of Representatives two weeks ago. An exit ban from the Schengen area was chosen by the Chamber. I realise that another amendment by Mr Bishop has been raised or that exit ban should not be confined to the Netherlands. It should then be decided that a person is deprived of the right to travel outside the Netherlands under the exit ban. That amendment has been dissuaded by my colleague, arguing in any case that there are no border controls on the outskirts of the Netherlands. I would therefore also like to argue with reference to the discussion on this point that it is wise to also make the Passport Act in accordance with the exit ban that was adopted here two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u27	I wonder if that is also an opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u28	I will come back to that specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u29	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u30	It is a pre-announcement of the opinion; the prelude. I will see if I can make other general comments on this. I don't think so, actually. Then I would like to address the specific questions. Mr Bishop has asked a number of questions, all of which relate to the portfolio of V and J. My colleague has already answered the question of how to deal with the second passport. The Schengen Information System contains the personal data of travellers. If the person concerned is travelling with the passport of his second nationality, the border guard may, on the basis of the name data, see that the person concerned is registered in the SIS. That is indeed a problem. With that second passport, for example, he cannot be stopped at the border with Germany on an exit to Turkey. My colleague from V and J has already pointed that out here in the debate. He said that he wanted to change this at European level. At the next JHA Council, he would like to draw attention to this. I think it's next week. For the answer, I refer to that. Several other groups have also asked for this. The same applies to enforcement. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg and others who are making a certain relativisation. This Passport Act does not prevent people from travelling to Syria with any certainty because they can travel freely within the Schengen area. Europe's border is not waterproof on both sides. This law is part of a larger package aimed at making it more difficult for people to travel. That it is not waterproof, I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mr Bishop also asked about the De Caluwe amendment. It seems to me right to respond to this when I deal with Mrs De Caluwe's questions. In reply to a question by Mr Van Raak, I have already said that I would like to speak on occasion about the role of the secret services in so far as this can be done in public and otherwise at the appropriate place. I regret it, but I do understand that, now that the SP has voted against the exit ban, it considers this logical complement to that also difficult. I can only hope that I can convince Mr Van Raak that now that the exit ban has in any case been adopted by the House of Representatives, the Passport Act must do justice to what has been decided on it. We shall see what comes back to that in the considerations of the SP Group. The question of subsidies to Salafist organisations is not strictly a question for the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations either. There is no question of subsidising Salafist organizations by the Empire. As far as other bodies are concerned, this may be a local consideration. If there are legal limitations to this, this is also an issue that needs to be discussed with V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u31	There's an organization called DocP or something. She goes to supermarkets to make sure that people do not buy Israeli products, at least not Jewish products from Judea and Samaria. Many draw a comparison with the slogan "don't buy from Jews," but well, I'll leave that for a while. Those people claim on their website that they receive subsidies from SP among other things. Does the Minister think that a proper way of siphoning money received by the SP under the Subsidies Act is political parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u32	While the question was asked, I was looking for the relationship with the BZK portfolio. Perhaps it was introduced by the last sentence, but I still want to be very cautious. For starters, I don't know if it's true. I'm not going to speculate by going into like-dan questions. I believe that the cabinet should be cautious about how political parties spend their money. I'd like to leave it at that. Of these actions I may find a lot of things too, but it is not appropriate for me to give an opinion on them from this point on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u33	I'm also looking into the relationship with the amendment of the Passport Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u34	If Mr Bosma has any questions, he can always ask the SP. That's never a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u35	You meet often enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr Van Raak and Mrs Koşer Kaya asked about the surrender of travel documents. First of all, I would like to point out that it is estimated that there are about 50 documents per year. There is therefore no significant capacity involved. The law provides that both the municipality and the police can take those documents. So far, practice has shown that one can get out of it. That is why I do not want to commit myself to the fact that this must always be done by the police, for example. I don't think it's gonna have a big impact on the police either if they do. What the police are doing is, if we're very precise, a case for V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u37	For a potential terrorist who has to hand over his passport, it is a sign of good citizenship if he obeys and goes neatly to the municipal desk. That seems to me to be a theoretical matter, because I do not think they do. You could say there wouldn't be a problem. But I asked that question because the Association of Dutch Municipalities is a bit reluctant to get all these types over the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u38	In practice, it may be more likely that someone will be held up at the border because the passport is marked as withdrawn than that he will spontaneously report to the town hall. By the way, in practice, people do crazy things. After all, someone should know that his passport has been withdrawn. If people try to travel with it, it is unwise and not rational, but it will occur. I come to Mrs Koşer Kaya's question about compensating people who have been wrongly banned from leaving. That is indeed the case: a person who has been wrongly prohibited from leaving is entitled to compensation under Article 8.4 of the General Administrative Law. So that is legally guaranteed and I confirm that here again. For the question about the effectiveness of the exit ban, please refer to V and J. That discussion has already taken place there, and it may well continue there. Mr Recourt asked what improvements were being made to SIS II. Further measures to strengthen the SIS alert will be agreed at the forthcoming JHA Council on 9 and 10 June. The Chamber will discuss this with my colleague from V and J on 8 June. In addition to what I have just said in reply to Mrs Koşer Kaya, who is now making the move that I am moving it to V and J, I would like to say that I am doing so very consciously. I announced that, too. I do that because it listens closely. I have already explained that if it had not been a separate route, this particular part of the package would have been voted on two weeks ago. Then I come to the question of what is being done to obtain travel documents when they have expired. They will then be detected nationally and internationally and withheld if they are found. The holder is obliged to turn them in. The non-compliance is punishable. However, you may wonder with Mr Van Raak whether this will immediately send everyone to the city hall. In the local domain it is discussed to have the travel document collected by the police in individual cases. Mr Bosma explained once again that he had a different view on the way out. Instead of an exit ban, he would prefer to impose an exit obligation. Let me not try to exaggerate Mr Bosma's speech, because that is also an art in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u39	The minister is radicalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u40	The Minister is getting over a fairly basic point, namely whether we are going to inform other countries about the fact that we have taken the Dutch passport. In fact, that's some kind of extra problem we've introduced. That's right, because it fits the exit ban. Can I understand the Minister to say to the Minister of Security and Justice that it is not just about the exit ban and that he must speak to his colleagues to inform them that this measure was taken in the Netherlands? In particular, it was a question of denaturalisation. However, it should also be known that someone no longer has a Dutch passport and may still travel freely on the other passport. That element should be added to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u41	Yeah, I'm radicalizing. I understand from that point of view that Mr Bosma has an opinion on this exit ban and perhaps also on the Passport Act which relates to it. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked questions to other countries about travelling within the Schengen area. Next week is an ideal opportunity to discuss this with Mr van V and Mr J, in preparation for the JHA Council. This is really V and J's responsibility. What to do with people who have been stopped? The question is: how do we deal with potential Syrians who are in the Netherlands? The cabinet has adopted a package of measures and this has also been discussed in the Chamber. Partly these are measures of repression, which lie with my colleague from V and J. And my colleague from SZW is extremely active in the field of prevention. And there are even OCW aspects to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u42	I assume that will happen automatically. Other countries will be informed about the exit ban in any case. If the Court adopts this law, it follows from that exit ban that the travel documents have been declared void. Mr Recourt pointed out that there is still a theoretical difference between the two, i.e. that a person has been given an exit ban, but that the passport has not yet been declared invalid. Should that lead to an additional legal act, I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg's question is whether countries other than those that may exist are informed about this difference. She asked me to bring that to the attention of V and J colleagues. I'll admit that's what I'll do. In principle, however, I assume that it results automatically. You will be given an exit ban, which will be reported to the other countries and will be informed that your travel documents have been declared invalid. I also see enthusiastic noding in the A section, the profession of civil servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u43	I'm afraid we're still talking side by side, which is why I want to concrete my question. We have called on the cabinet in the debate on the withdrawal of Dutch nationality to ensure that if someone no longer has Dutch nationality, the country of which he still has nationality will be informed. The cabinet said it will. We do not, by way of exception, do so, but in principle we do. Also in the case of an exit ban and the withdrawal of the passport, it is of course important to inform the country of which someone still has a passport. That element should be added to it. That's my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u44	Thank you for this explanation. I understood that the question was whether the other countries in the Schengen area would be informed about this. I have given an affirmative answer to that. This is indeed 100% of V and J's portfolio. I would like to ask whether this is being reported to a country of which someone has a second passport before my colleague. I do not know whether this can be done in all cases or whether there may still be exceptions to it, as in the case of the expiry of nationality. I'll pass on that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u45	Very good, Mr. Chairman. If a person no longer has Dutch nationality, it does not necessarily follow everything. If the minister takes that, maybe we'll have another little mouse hole popped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u46	Yeah, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u48	Mrs De Caluwe asked a number of questions. She asked what would happen if someone holding a second passport in Germany was spotted at the airport and it was known that an exit ban had been imposed in the Netherlands. Then we must not act on it actively. This aspect will be raised next week by Mr van V and Mr J in the JHA Council, in order to make a change to it. Mrs De Caluwe asked a number of questions relating to deadlines. She said that Germany signs people at Interpol and asked why we don't. So do we. We're doing the same thing. When will the replacement document be ready? I am aiming for 1 July 2016. I think we can make it, unless there are changes to the document. So it's very soon. It could be the case in a couple of weeks. Finally, Mrs De Caluwe's amendment. She also asked questions about the subject on the table in the amendment. I refer you back to my introduction. I want to remain consistent with the advice given by my colleague from V and J on the Bishop amendment to limit the exit ban to exit from the Netherlands. My colleague didn't advise me at the time. The Court followed that opinion and established the exit ban from the Schengen area. There were a number of practical reasons for this. I would like to try to convince Mrs De Caluwe and the Chamber not to ask this through this amendment. There are three reasons for this. First of all, there are the reasons my colleague has put forward here for the ban on exiting the Schengen area. These are the reasons why there is no border control and so on. I realise that these reasons were apparently not convincing for the VVD group at the time, because that group belonged to the vast majority who voted in favour of the Bishop amendment. But this is a category of the arguments. The second category is that it is undesirable, apart from what was thought of the Bishop amendment. It is undesirable to introduce a different exit ban in the treatment of this Passport Act than in the treatment of the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism. After all, there will be noise on the line. I can also imagine that the First Chamber will have questions about this: what is it, an exit ban from the Schengen area or an exit ban from the Dutch border? I don't want that noise. That noise may also lead to delays. So even if I move into the position of someone who supported the Bishop amendment two weeks ago, I would argue that no noise should be created and that the Passport Act should now be adopted in accordance with that temporary law, now that that temporary law has been passed by the House of Representatives. Thirdly, what is on an identity card must do justice to reality. That shouldn't be misleading. So if someone has an exit ban from the Schengen area, they can travel to Germany. Suppose someone identifies himself in Germany with an identity card and he really appears to be the person on that card, but that card says "can't travel outside the Netherlands." What's the German government doing with that? Nor does it have any legal effect for the German Government. It is not, in fact, true, because according to the law adopted two weeks ago, someone is allowed to travel outside the Netherlands. I understand the desire to limit the exit ban to the Netherlands, but for all these reasons I want to remain consistent with what was established here two weeks ago. Let us not complicate things, also because we all want to keep the momentum in this legislative process. I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u49	I waited for the Minister to finish his response. I thought that would be useful for the debate. Indeed, Article 3 of the Temporary Counter-Terrorism Act states that there is a desire to prevent someone from leaving the Schengen area. It is also possible to enter the Schengen area. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that you can report on the replacement identity card that someone can only identify with it within the Netherlands. What the hell is that for? Why did Germany, France and Belgium do this? That's for the alert. Suppose a German is not allowed to travel and he goes to France, for example, because he wants to go to Syria via France or because he wants to attack France. For example, when he arrives in France in a hotel, it is supposed to be reported and passed on to the police. If he rents a car or maybe reports to Charles de Gaulle Airport, it is intended that the gentleman has reported to France. That's why there's this report to Interpol. So you can say: fine, France has seen that the German cannot be outside Germany and France is sending him back to Germany. However, with the Dutch measure proposed by the Minister, that is not possible. You can travel to Germany, but the German border guard can't stop you if you want to travel through Hungary to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u50	I'll answer in three parts. Firstly, within the Schengen area, there is an indication that someone has been given an exit ban. That information is therefore available to the authorities in other countries. Secondly, two weeks ago, the Chamber chose to allow that exit ban to apply to travel outside the Schengen area. That seems consistent to me, to be honest, because it is about preventing departures to Syria, and there is free travel within the Schengen area. If the House had wished to do this differently, Members should have taken a different decision after the debate with my colleague Mr Van der Steur. However, that did not happen. I therefore call for consistency with the decision taken at that time. Thirdly, a person who has the right to travel to Germany must be able to identify himself in Germany in accordance with the decision taken. If the passport is taken, the national identity card will be used. It therefore states that the holder has been given an exit ban, and that is correct. I have an example here. It then reads "Not valid for travel outside Schengen area." That's the correct information. Other information would be misleading. So I am really asking you to be consistent in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u51	So the Minister is actually saying that what Germany, France and Belgium have done is a shambles. They just put that on there, but they don't want anything with it. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u52	That is another question for my colleague from V and J. I think that question was asked by Mrs De Caluwe at the time. I have been told by the loyal associates of my colleague from V and J that the system in Germany has been set up slightly differently from ours on this point of departure. However, I would not qualify it as a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u53	For the record, this debate is about the amendment No. 10. The Minister has advised against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u54	Yes, we've unfortunately heard that he did, Mr. Chairman. Of course consistency with previous decision-making is important; we all understand that. We also note, however, that this control is not complete. We also note that, through a double passport and the possibility of travelling within the Schengen area, there may be a travel route that we really want to cut off. Shouldn't we just swallow for a moment and say in all honesty: then we haven't made a good decision here before? Do we really need to tighten up this regulation, so that at least a closed system can be established? Now there's just loopholes in the law. We are also aware of this, but we would therefore allow it to exist in this way. I cannot imagine that the Minister of National Security, among other things, would want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u55	Mr Bishop calls me the Minister of National Security. That is almost literally the title of my colleague in the field of security and justice. So I'm just gonna leave that description there. I believe that there are two ways for the groups in the Chamber to remain consistent. I can imagine that the members of the political groups who voted against the Schengen exit ban two weeks ago will say: we are therefore now opposed to the proposal to amend the Passport Act in which it is implemented in this way. However, you could also be consistent by saying that two weeks ago the Chamber decided to do it this way, so let's at least make sure that the Passport Act is amended in the same way as that Administrative Measures Act, otherwise there will be noise on the line and it will also lead to frowning eyebrows in the First Chamber. This may also lead to a delay in the treatment in the Upper Chamber. Those things don't want anybody here. I am therefore trying to tempt Mr Bishop to the second form of consistency that I mentioned, but I would also appreciate it if he said: yes, we were not in favour of this, my amendment was rejected, so I do not support this proposal either. However, now that I say this, I remember that after the amendment was rejected, I think the SGP finally supported the legislative proposal. If so, I would urge Mr Bishop to support this amendment to the Passport Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u56	Of course, the SGP supported that bill. After all, this loophole in that bill was or was explicitly maintained........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, we are now finding that there are loopholes in the system with these double passports, given the control mechanisms that we now have for this, and given the possibility or the need to do so. Then it would be wise to step back on the previous legislative proposal and ensure that it is closed and that the previous legislative proposal is brought into line with the amendment before us. Then we have prevented an important loophole in the law in advance. My plea is: Minister, throw all your talents into the discussion with your colleague from Security and Justice to advocate that we make another repair there. That is actually the aim of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u57	Now I would like to make an appeal, just to Mr Bishop. He confirms my reminder, namely that the SGP Group tried to amend the temporary law and that, when that attempt ended, she considered that it was good to support the law as such. Now that the SGP has done so, I ask Mr Bishop to adopt the Passport Act in exactly the same way as the temporary law. The exit ban limits the exit to the Schengen area, and that is what we are implementing with the Passport Act. Otherwise there will be a very shady situation. I hope that we can convince Mr Bishop on that point. He is right, my colleague from V and J has already said that it does not produce a definitive system. This also has to do with the fact that there are no border controls within the Schengen area. That's a completely different discussion, but we're not gonna solve it here. This means that people can travel to Germany or France, with or without papers. They won't be checked for that. We're not gonna change that here either. With that fact and with the fact that the Chamber has decided to adopt a temporary law with an exit ban for the Schengen area, I would hope that there will be support to bring the Passport Act into line. I think that was the last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u58	That's what I thought. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. I'm just gonna walk by the list. Mr Bishop, would you like to say a few words? Very briefly, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u59	Mr. Chairman. A man a man, a word a word. One of my starting points in the discussion of this proposal was: the SGP supports this proposal. So, yeah, I'm not getting back to that. Only, the lesson that we learn from this is: let it hang over the market for a while. So next time we're gonna do something different, we're gonna make it a little more exciting. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The answer leans somewhat towards the reference to the reply of his colleague in the security and justice field two weeks ago. It's not entirely satisfactory. I understand the thinking line and I also understand the need to streamline it, so that there is sufficient alignment. However, I am not quite convinced yet, especially with regard to the escape route that is in it. This is how we consciously maintain them. That was also the reason why, when we discussed the previous legislative proposal, we called for it, in fact in line with this amendment, to close it down a little more, especially since it is not entirely clear at what point a mandatory control is needed, i.e. the consultation of the systems, and when it is an option. That has not become clear to me. Maybe the Minister can come back to that. We are not entirely enthusiastic, because of this permanent gap, this gap. However, we are maintaining the support we have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u60	I know the SGP as a pure state party. Now Mr Bishop has co-signed an amendment, which I understand because it is in line with his earlier amendment. However, the Minister has convincingly explained that this is not purely state law. After all, the new amendment is going to create something that has already been rejected by the previous law when Mr Bishop's amendment was rejected. So you get a card that doesn't match the legal reality. If you come to Germany, it is not allowed at all, because we have just agreed with the previous law that it is possible. What is going to prevail: the political desire/opportunistic desire to regulate it or the state's purity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u61	I do not believe that this can now be put on the SGP. It is actually said: now you can choose: either you are opportunistic or you are purely state law. The consistent approach of the SGP is to get a good, clear and clear closing system. This has also been expressed in this legislative proposal. We clearly see a loophole in the law here. We therefore call for this repair to be applied to the previous legislative proposal. That was my suggestion just now in the case of the interruption. In this way, let us ensure clarity and streamlining between the two legislative proposals. This has little to do with opportunism, but everything has to do with constitutional purity and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u62	It's not that late, so I'm gonna make things a little more complicated. I have taken a closer look at the amendment tabled by the SGP at the previous debate. The main point was that we did not want that exit ban because it was also about the national security of the other countries. The Minister has responded very clearly to this. There was a bottleneck there. Maybe we should do it the other way around. Perhaps we should say: we are accepting this amendment here, and look, there is an inconsistency with a previously adopted law; we need to bring that other law into line with this law. If you don't want someone to have a document in another country, you also have to make sure they can't go there. You then have another legal basis, namely that we cannot accept that someone with a passport that has actually expired is still abroad as a Dutchman. You organize it on the other side. I've really looked at that amendment. It was actually more structured from the point of view of the national security of other countries, and the Minister for Security and Justice in particular responded to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u63	This route would be passable as far as we are concerned. I said: let us consider in advance that there is a risk of inconsistency here, let us adopt this amendment and then make an effort to remove this inconsistency with the earlier law in advance. But we can also accept this amendment and then go into the path outlined by Mrs Van Toorenburg. This ultimately leads to the same outcome, which I believe is desirable in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u64	It is clear from the documents, but it is important for Parliament's consideration that the SGP confirms here that the main problem with the other amendment was that it no longer focused on Dutch national security, but also on the safety of other countries. That was precisely the problem for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u65	That's right. Of course, the national security of the Netherlands played with it, but the argument was "if you give them the opportunity to seek shelter there, that is a threat to national security." Strictly speaking, the Minister is right to say that you cannot hold the Dutch government responsible for this. In itself, that is a pure reasoning, but there are also some other factors that play a role. If Mrs Van Toorenburg's route were to be followed, that would also be dear to me. This calls for broad support for the De Caluwé/Bisschop amendment before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you very much for your second term, Mr Bishop. I see that Mr Van Raak is abandoning his second term. The same applies to Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mr Bosma. I see that Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to speak very briefly. She even does that without papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr. Chairman. What I just discussed in the SGP-interruption debate, I would nevertheless like to present to the Minister myself. Is the Minister prepared to let the Chamber know before Tuesday's votes whether there is any possibility of doing so? If we adopt this law, there is an inconsistency with a law that has already been passed. We may then have to amend that law in a novelle in consultation with the First Chamber in order to bring it into line with it for a reason other than that which the Bishop/Van der Staaij amendment saw at the time. The problem at the time was that it is about the national security of another country, and that is not possible. We cannot introduce that legal basis, and that is why we have not been able to accept that amendment. We will have to amend that other law, given that we now have a law that will cause someone not to be in another country in the Schengen area, but to be able to go there afterwards. So that's not true anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u68	Maybe a novelle isn't even necessary, but it might be possible with a coincidence. If so, could Mrs Van Toorenburg ask the Minister to consider it? It could be faster than a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u69	That's what I've been asked about. I know the coincidence in criminal law like no other. I do not know whether it is constitutionally possible to bring back a law that we have already adopted in parliamentary treatment with a co-decision. This minister is not just about security, but there is one thing he is really about, namely the constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u70	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, a short contribution in second term. The VVD agrees with the Minister that we are against an exit ban outside the Schengen area. So far we agree, given the current legislative proposal that came through last week. The Minister also knows that the VVD would have liked to go a little further. That is why she supported the SGP amendment, although that amendment was of a different order from the one before it. I am left with the question of what we will actually achieve if this change is adopted. Will we stop the people who want to go to Syria? If so, when will we stop them? Are we doing that at the last minute or are we just too late? If we could limit the identity card to the Netherlands, we would be able to identify people much earlier and possibly intervene before they have left the Schengen area and entered Turkey or Syria. The aim is therefore to prevent people from leaving the Schengen area. That is why my amendment is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. I should like to comment briefly on Mr Bishop's extensive speech. In the first period, I have already said something about the fact that someone with a second passport can travel through another country. The debate with my colleague has also dealt with the fact that this observation is correct. This does not change at all if an exit ban from the Netherlands would be imposed with an identity card valid only in the Netherlands. After all, no checks are carried out at the external border of the Netherlands. Therefore, the Dutch Presidency is committed to strengthening the SIS alert with a new article for temporary detention or provisional detention. That possibility of succession would provide a solution in such cases. These actions will be discussed next week in the JHA Council on 9 and 10 June. Before that, there is another debate with the Chamber. The subject could be discussed in detail. I would like to comment on Mrs Van Toorenburg's speech, which said that it is not so late, so let us sit down for a while. This intervention illustrates precisely the point I was trying to make carefully in my first-term speech, namely that we must be careful of noise throughout this legislative process. Two weeks ago, it was decided, knowingly, by the Chamber, that the exit ban should apply to the Schengen area. In my view, the first reason for this was that there was no border control at the border of the Netherlands, since it was moved to the Schengen area border. It is therefore also logical to allow the exit ban to apply. After all, there it is possible to travel to Syria. That would not be possible on the border of the Netherlands. In any case, that has been the consideration of doing so. I certainly wouldn't want to link a legislative process of an ordinary law to a legislative process that also involves a state law. That would also be a state-law novel. You really need to avoid the state legislature interfering with Dutch laws. That is another route and ultimately another one, because either the National Council of Ministers or the ordinary Council of Ministers must give advice on it. That illustrates the objection I raised to the amendment. I tried to convince Mrs. De Caluwe. Even if you were in favour of changing that exit ban two weeks ago, I would say, let's speed up now, now that that has not happened. In reply to Mrs De Caluwé's question, I said that we, as the BZK, will be able to have that identity card available as of 1 July, so that is very soon, if that legislative process goes through. I'm putting an apple on the VVD fraction. We always speak with one voice in Box K, but I would like to stress that my colleague with the portfolio of V and J also wants us to try to speed things up in order to establish this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u72	I understand the Minister's reasoning, and I do think he is right, let me make that very clear. We have agreed that we evaluate these laws very critically and every time we see if there are any bottlenecks. Can the Minister see what happens on this particular point when someone crosses the border of the Netherlands every time and we are ultimately powerless to do so? If that is going to happen eventually and that system does not work, we must be able to intervene very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u73	I think that's a reasonable question, so I can promise you that. Strictly speaking, this is a question for my colleague from V and J, but on behalf of the cabinet I can promise it. At the same time as responding to Mrs Van Toorenburg's speeches, I discussed the amendment in more detail, so I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-12.u74	I would like to thank the Minister for his second reply and thank the Members for their contributions. The bill and the amendment will be voted on next Tuesday.
