ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Disturbing messages in De Telegraaf last days. Douaniers say that they are not up to the ankles, but up to the armpits in the cocaine. The interception of drugs would no longer be important. The Mafia free play, the number of customs workers reduced and, in a nutshell, I also read in that article that corruption scandals for executives would have remained without consequences. It is probably not surprising that for me only one question is central, namely how I can trust now that my government is working to ensure that the port of Rotterdam does not become a safe haven for drugs. How can I rely on our customs to tackle criminal organisations that abuse our ports hard and effectively? Is it true, as I would like to know more specifically from the Secretary of State, that the armed branch of customs, to put it mildly, will be lifted for almost half? Is it true that the intensity of controls is reduced? If all this is the case, then I do not understand how we are going to put an end to the practice of smuggling cocaine, which everyone is so concerned about. How are we going to do that if there's less capacity left? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. It's a wonderful subject. The hunt for cocaine is of the utmost importance, and in its wake, of course, not just cocaine. We are also talking about weapons, explosives and nuclear material. Those are all things the customs are paying attention to. Smugglers are innovating, so customs are also innovating. The use of customs is therefore not to catch less cocaine, but more and more weapons, more nuclear material and more explosives. However, this can only be done if customs do so differently and smarter. To this end, forensic data techniques have been developed. This means that customs can find where it is in 100 million data rules a year. The computer's looking for the needle in the haystack. The analysis sometimes starts before the ship leaves the port on the other side. We doubled the x-ray scanning capacity in the port of Rotterdam in 2015. There is also a shift from driving surveillance, which is what we are talking about here, to 24-hour camera surveillance. We're working on that right now. That means you can keep in the loop permanently. All in all, this means that there is a shift from generic supervision, surveillance-oriented supervision, to smart and targeted supervision. This has led, among other things, to the fact that in the first half of 2016 more than twice as much cocaine was found than in the whole of 2015. Smart lookin' works, huh? It has to be, if you have to search 100 million data lines a year. The only way to do that is to do it smartly. This is how we do it and that creates uncertainty for the employees of this physical unit, the so-called OSODT (Unknown Sub- and Object Customs Supervision). Their work, I believe, is one of the most fascinating parts of customs. This is really about the physical controls: the diving teams, moving equipment and dogs. That still works, but there is a shift in the mix. In the long term, it will be less possible if other things have proven themselves and are working better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	I listen with great interest to the words of the Secretary of State. That puts the articles out De Telegraaf of the past few days in a completely different light, to put it this way. If I translate what the Secretary of State says correctly now, he actually says: we are going to do it differently, but we are going to do it better and, more importantly, the results have already been achieved and those criminals are waiting for something when it comes to my customs. I have to say, that makes me happy. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether, at a later stage, not only now that these oral questions have been raised, he would like to report exactly what the concrete added value of the other works is, in so far as that is to be shared. I also ask the Secretary of State about the corruption scandals, which continue to worry me. Is it true that we have to worry about that? Is it true that executives would hold corruption scandals under their hats or something like that? I'm just making a translation of the way I read it in that article. If so, what will the Secretary of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	I think that every Dutchman is pretty much affected when he reads that there is corruption in organizations like customs, sometimes it exists. Leaders have the job of tracking it and they do, you never know what's brewing anywhere else. It is clear that customs is an organisation that must do everything in its power to prevent internal corruption. Customs are of course involved in this very wide programme in the port of Rotterdam, the so-called Integer Haven programme, which we carry out with all partners such as the Port Company, the police and the Public Prosecutor. That is of the utmost importance. If anyone here in the Chamber seriously doubts the integrity of customs, we all have a problem as a Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	Then I understand it so that I do not have to read it so literally when it is in the newspaper and that this Secretary of State is insisting that at the moment there would be corruption within customs, which will be dealt with as it should if the integrity of the government is at stake. There is one last question left for me. I once asked the Secretary of State's colleague in another Question Time what he found and what effects and positive contributions he could make to public-private cooperation in the port of Rotterdam, the cooperation between customs, Port Authority, police, Public Prosecutor's Office and so on. What contribution can the Secretary of State make in this respect? For example, he can intensify things, such as maintaining the click line, but also look at how to prevent the creation of a kind of waterbed, where drugs are caught in one port and the criminals are dealt with, and then the ships, with all their data technology, go to the port of Delfzijl or Terneuzen, because then we have not achieved enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	There are three things on my wish list that I'm constantly talking about with the customs administration. The first is that we must always stay ahead of smugglers. If we stop now, the smugglers will be ahead of us and the proceeds will fall again. We have to go ahead permanently. I think it is good to report on that, too. The second is integrity. If we're gonna gnaw at that, it's gonna go wrong. We must always be vigilant about this. It is a very important theme for the Customs Summit. The third has not been mentioned here and is just outside the context: we are a trading country and we want customs to work efficiently and to be able to get through quickly; we want the good guys and the good shippers to move their stuff through the Netherlands unimpeded or to import it to the Netherlands. That is important for our economy, and that also counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	Perhaps the Secretary of State should clarify something. When I read in the internal documents of customs that a saving of 60 fte is being booked, I do not quite understand what the Secretary of State says today. The CDA wants a major investigation into what's going on with those cocaine shipments. We read about massive liquidations, driver abductions and intimidation of owners of all kinds of companies. Is the cabinet prepared to seriously consider a broader investigation than just that monitor and zoom in on the consequences of these massive cocaine transports for ordinary, hard-working people in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	For the time being, I note that the approach that we are always trying to stay one step ahead of smugglers has led to more than twice as much cocaine found in the first half of 2016 as in the whole of 2015. Let's look at it against that background. The world of cocaine would be very wild, but on the question that I am now being asked, I would first like to discuss with the Minister of Justice, who is the first person responsible for anyone who does not want to comply with the law, how we can give the Chamber an insight into what is happening, but can also respond to the concerns that may exist. For the moment I am celebrating that 2016 will be a good coke year, but in the good sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u10	Will we get a letter from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u11	Oh, procedureally, yes, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u12	I will consult with the Member of the Court of Justice and let you know by letter how we can deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u13	The fact that it is a good coke year is demonstrated by the fact that the number of liquidations has increased and that drug trafficking has increased. Criminal gangs dealing with cocaine are on the rise. I find it very extraordinary that this cabinet chooses to halve customs and shift capacity to excise rather than drugs. If there is such a big problem in the Netherlands, namely that the supply of drugs is huge, I wonder why this Secretary of State chooses to limit customs capacity. If the Secretary of State were really smart, he wouldn't use camera surveillance, but he would use the people he's freed right now even more effectively. After all, ten ships are still not checked every week and should have been checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-2.u14	The work of this physical unit does not disappear, because someone will always have to go. Well, it could be a lot smarter. We prefer to watch with a lot of cameras on the quay 24 hours a day to see what happens, where we occasionally pass surveillance. It is necessary to have people in the physical unit, but we want to do more. There is no question of halving customs in Rotterdam. Some 1,400 people work for customs in Rotterdam. There are shifts, namely to "smarter." There is less work with divers, dogs and boats. There is not yet a number on paper that is definitive; it is really still being looked at. But there is no question of halving the customs deployment in Rotterdam.
