ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to this Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. Speaking time shall be two minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I applied for this VSO because of the full trains. In the AO I therefore asked a question about the possibility of additional rush trains. The Secretary of State expected that this would work out well with the arrival of new equipment. I have faith in the NS, but I'd like this to be a little sharper. Trains that run only in rush hour are economically less profitable for the NS, but there is a social interest. So I would like to know how the NS intends to deal with this tension between economic efficiency and social interest in less than a year's time. I would like to see all sections where trains are full or full in the coming years mapped out what the NS is going to do about it. Where's it just gonna be a little bit better in a couple of years? I do not have a motion on this at the moment, because I hope that the Secretary of State will also discuss this with the NS and the Chamber without a motion. I shall therefore confine myself to one motion, which concerns long-distance bus transport. In response to the AO on public transport, the Secretary of State writes a letter on new initiatives in this area. However, the Christian Union also wants more space specifically for the NS, because the use of buses related to full trains was accompanied by unnecessary exemption procedures. That's why I'm filing the next motion to encourage the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for public long-distance bus services by parties other than the concessionaire in the region in question, an exemption must be requested from the concession provider unless alternative transport is involved in rail operations;]] [[Considering that the NS should also apply for such an exemption if it wishes to provide structural bus transport between two NS stations, for example to relieve full trains, even if only stop at NS stations;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Passenger Transport Act 2000 so that railway concession holders are entitled to offer bus transport without exemption between stations for which they are entitled to offer rail transport, provided that only those stations are satisfied,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have a point of order, because this point has been expressly raised by the AO on public transport and taxi services. We also received the same undertaking from the Secretary of State. Before the summer, she will return with a letter. Otherwise, I would have liked to have tabled this motion myself. For this reason, no VAO has been requested. So I would almost say that I do not think it is collegial, but at least out of order that this motion is now being tabled on the basis of another AO on other subjects. I would therefore almost like to ask the author to hold the motion and perhaps to re-table it with another AO on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	My motion deals specifically with the NS and concerns a specific proposal for an approach that could regulate this. I also said I wanted to encourage the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State wishes to address this point very specifically in her letter, I can imagine that I will indeed hold the motion until that letter arrives. So I'm gonna wait for the Secretary of State's response. I'm willing to consider that, depending on that reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	In this context, we are waiting for the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on freight transport, this time in the East of the Netherlands, even though this point is in several parts of the country. Then I shall make another comment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas (goods) trains in the East Netherlands in particular cause a great deal of nuisance for residents;]] [[Whereas these residents have been awaiting national measures for many years;]] [[Whereas the nuisance is particularly annoying for residents at night;]] [[Calls on the Government to ask ProRail to discuss with the carriers what measures they can take to reduce noise in the East of the Netherlands in accordance with the rules in force and the importance of freight transport for the Dutch economy, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 July 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr De Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, I would like to ask whether, when looking at measures, we can also look at slower driving at night. After all, the experience is that there is less disturbance of the night sleep when at night for example 60 km/h is driven by all those small beautiful villages in the east of the country than if there is faster driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. Social security in public transport has been an issue that has been our concern for many years. The PVV has been fighting for more social security in public transport for years. We were therefore very happy at the beginning with the Secretary of State's commitment to pay 10 million for this. Unfortunately, that turns out to be a one-off 10 million and not a structural 10 million. It is true that structural measures are needed for social security. People need to be hired. We need more conductors; you're not gonna fire them again a year after that. I would ask the Secretary of State to include this 10 million in the budget in a structural manner. I have tabled the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas 777 incidents of violence were recorded in 2013, in 2014 774, and 642 incidents last year;]] [[noting that this is a structural problem, which requires a structural solution;]] [[noting that the government is allocating EUR 10 million on a one-off basis to improve social security on the railways;]] [[calls on the Government to make this one-off investment of EUR 10 million for social security structural, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642/76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	There are many plans for the NS's finances, projects that may be delayed or not going on. That is why I want to look for cover in a shift in the NS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. It was a general consultation with a broad agenda. We have talked about many points, including the shuffle chairs in the Fyra and the question of how it was possible that such a mistake had been made in the calculation. We have also talked about the gaps in the budget and indeed, in particular, about social security and the bicycle. In the field of social security, we came up against the same point as Mr Madlener mentioned. It is very important to invest in it. That's only been happening for one year. I ask the Secretary of State to include us in the possibilities she sees for continuing to address the problems after this one year, because they will not suddenly be resolved. This requires funding, perhaps not only from the Empire but also from other parties. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to this, because this is a structural problem that we do not solve with an occasional contribution, no matter how pleased we are with it. I believe that we were right to congratulate the Secretary of State for this in general consultation. I've prepared a motion regarding bike parking. If we really want to offer the traveller the possibility of a good journey from door to door, it is of course very important to be able to park the bike quickly. The Empire would no longer have any involvement in this after 2020. As far as we are concerned, that is not possible, and that is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that improving door-to-door travel plays an important role in, inter alia, the Long Term Track Agenda and the new NS strategy;]] [[noting that the bicycle occupies an important place in the door-to-door journey;]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of bicycle storage facilities at stations, rising to 100,000 places by 2030;]] [[Whereas cycling is a space- and cost-effective, green and healthy mode of transport, and it is good to encourage cycling;]] [[Invites the Government to continue to be involved in bicycle storage facilities at stations beyond 2020 and to find a solution to the shortage of bicycle storage facilities at stations with interested parties such as NS, ProRail, Fietsersbond, regional OV carriers and municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. We support Mr Hoogland's motion on freight transport measures and accompanying policies. Freight transport is extremely important for the earning model of the Netherlands. Last week we held a round table on the disposal of goods from ports and the competitiveness of the port of Rotterdam. We also have to look at the East of the Netherlands, but I would also like to mention Brabant. Of course, that line is also important. I'll wait for the Secretary of State's response to that motion first. In addition, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas aggression and violence against public transport personnel are unacceptable and should be stepped up;]] [[Whereas many measures have been taken to improve safety in public transport;]] [[Whereas the government has decided to contribute EUR 10 million once, in particular to the expansion of flexible security teams in the NS;]] [[calls on the Government to seek legal advice as to whether the EUR 10 million additional contribution, in particular for the extension of flexible security teams, can be made available throughout public transport where the safety risk is greatest, and to inform the Chamber of 1 May next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Boer and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	If I understand correctly, it is not only the NS that has to do with insecurity, but also regional carriers. Mrs De Boer wants the 10 million to be distributed among all carriers. That's her point, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	That's right. We need to find out where it's most unsafe. Recently a conductor was beaten up on an international corridor in Landgraaf. Security concerns all of us. Unfortunately, as we can read regularly in the newspaper, this is not limited to the trains of the NS. This is also the case in regional transport, regional transport and large cities. I therefore propose, for example, that the local authorities, which are responsible for the tendering of regional concessions, look at where the flexible teams can be deployed and discuss with them the question of how to deal with each other. Put those teams where they're most needed, not just in the NS. Security doesn't stop at the front door of a Connexxion bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	Yes. I assume this means that the staff should not be hired once or for one year. That should be structural. I assume that Mrs De Boer will support my motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	Let us first look at how to spend the EUR 10 million. I do not think this amount will be used for one year, but for a long year. I understand, at least, that this money will be spent over more years, but I await what the Secretary of State says about it. Mr Madlener's motion will then deal with the period after 2028. Look how far you get with the 10 million, involve the local authorities, who also have an interest in safety on the train, and make sure that this is also regulated in the concessions. In my opinion, security goes beyond social security. It is also a question of concrete security, and that is where the government has a role to play. That is why I think it is justified that this EUR 10 million, which is currently being used occasionally, should be used more widely than for the NS alone. After all, safety does not end with the NS. Once again, I await the response of the Secretary of State to Mr Madlener's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot about social security. The Chamber and the CDA Group have criticised the extent to which the agreed measures have been implemented and, above all, have not yet been implemented. After all, these agreements were made a year ago. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what the situation is. What about the cameras that were promised? How many stations are the gates still not closed? How many stations are the police units that were promised not yet present? How many routes do conductors still have to walk through the train alone at difficult times? We have also talked about reporting incidents. There are numbers that show that the incidents are falling, but I do not believe that they are. If you ask further questions, the staff say very clearly that it does not report all incidents for two reasons. In fact, it doesn't report many. Firstly, there is the idea that nothing will be done about it. That's pretty bad in itself. Secondly, the superior says to staff that too often reports incidents: are you in a good place, are you doing okay, shouldn't you go to a course? For these two reasons, people don't report. The Secretary of State said she was gonna find out. I'm asking her what's going on with this investigation. About the teams Security & Service, which are deployed if there is an escalation of violence, we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of incidents of violence in public transport is still substantial;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State has agreed and is implementing a new package of measures with stakeholders;]] [[whereas there are signals that call for more powers to be given to employees of the Dutch Railways Safety & Service;]] [[calls on the Government to explore, in consultation with the Dutch Railways, whether the current powers and means of violence are still appropriate to the tasks expected of the Dutch Railway Safety & Service employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr De Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. I see that a different time is mentioned than I am used to, but also that it has already been resolved. Social security affects all of us. That's why I'm making a motion. I would therefore like to clarify the regional rail network. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional resources have recently been allocated to increase social security on the railways but have only been made available to the NS;]] [[considers that it is desirable to increase social security on the regional rail network;]] [[calls on the government, whether or not in cooperation with local authorities, to also seek to increase social security on the regional rail network,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u18	I have a small addition to my motion. The resources for this could perhaps also come from the NS itself. We will be discussing the sale of Qbuzz and other strategic matters in the future. It may also be possible to release resources from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u19	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to answer and respond to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. I believe that seven motions have been tabled and a number of questions put. I shall first give my opinion on the motions and then answer the remaining questions. In his motion, Mr Bruins asked for the law to be amended. I don't think that's such a good idea, that's what I'm saying to him. That is not because I would not like to explore this issue, because there will, I believe before the summer, be another letter on the whole phenomenon of 'long-distance buses'. This was agreed earlier, as Mrs De Boer explained. The fact that I am going to write a letter on this does not mean that we are going to put a lot of money into it ourselves. We're gonna look at the possibilities of stimulating this. I am also prepared to consider whether it is necessary to remove derogations on this very specific point. However, I cannot overlook the consequences of this. I would like to return to that in my letter. The motion as it now stands, I advise against. Maybe Mr. Bruins can move in or arrest her, but that's up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u21	I have also been in contact with Mrs De Boer. If the Secretary of State can confirm that in her letter on long-distance buses, which will mainly cover the FlixBus, new providers and the like, she can also specifically address the long-distance buses that will be added to the lines maintained by rail concession holders, then I will continue my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u22	That particular point is in your motion, so I will take it with me. I would like to point out that you said that it gives a lot of exemption, but we were able to resolve this relatively quickly and in good consultation with the regional authorities. I am saying here that, if we have to, these issues can also be resolved very quickly, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u23	In that case, I'll hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u24	At the request of Mr Bruins, I propose his motion (28642, No. 74). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u25	I come to the motion by Mr Hoogland and Mrs De Boer on noise on the railways in the East of the Netherlands. I think it's good to protect people from noise. We do that from the law, and we have a whole legislative and multi-annual programme for that. They're in progress. The noise load will indeed increase temporarily in the coming years by redirecting some routes. That is very annoying, but unfortunately not entirely preventable. Tough trade-offs are involved. It may be important to say here that I think we should do everything we can to reduce this noise. There are, of course, more regions in which this problem arises, not only in the East of the Netherlands, which has to do with the redirects to work on the 'third track'. It also plays in Brabant. Additional noise measures aren't free, we've already seen that. The multiannual programme sound shows that the ambitions are about once greater than the budget. However, it might in itself be a good idea if ProRail entered into the conversation with the carriers, as Mr Hoogland and Mrs De Boer asked. For that reason and with this coloring of the story, I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u26	We always write enthusiastic motions for VAOs, but since the first motion that has been tabled here has already been withdrawn, I'm going to try to make a series of seven motions that are all withdrawn, provided the commitments are good. That's in my hands right now. If the Secretary of State promises to look at this and send us a letter in which she will examine with us what measures are and are not possible and which are being considered, then we are prepared to withdraw this motion. I mentioned speed limitation myself, but perhaps there are other things that are possible. The Secretary of State will have plenty of room to see what's possible. She might also be able to look at it more broadly, because this problem also plays in other places, and then inform the Chamber about it. Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u27	That's a deal. I'll come back here for the summer, I think in a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u28	Then I'll withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u29	Since the Hoogland/De Boer motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u30	All right, let's move on to Mr Madlener's next motion. I'm going for three in a row. Mr Madlener wants to make a structural budget of 10 million. Maybe I should start by saying that it is very important that we do a lot to improve social security. In fact, this is primarily a task for the carriers themselves. However, I have also noted that a number of things did not work out so well that I could do it without my contribution this year. I cannot now promise Mr Madlener that this amount will become structural. Nor has it necessarily been said that it has to come from the national budget. Mr Madlener himself said that I also look at the funds for the NS to cover this amount. He could also turn that into "the NS." So I would also ask Mr Madlener to hold on to his motion. I cannot make a commitment now, because there are a lot of complex financial considerations to be made. My problem isn't that I have any money left, but rather that I have a shortage of money at a lot of times. However, I do think this is important. Indeed, this problem is not just gone. Mr Madlener and others have spoken about this, and that is, of course, entirely true. However, you may at some point also require a carrier to assume a number of responsibilities for a subsequent period. I do not want to make this discussion impossible in advance with a motion as tabled by Mr Madlener. He and I have an understanding of the importance of this issue, and that the people we are now helping with it should not be gone after a year. But I also think it is worth discussing whether this should necessarily be financed from the State contribution, or whether a company can continue to pay from its own resources at some point. In my view, Mr Madlener has actually said so himself. I therefore ask him to give me the opportunity to have that important conversation without putting the knife on my table, because it has to stay in the middle for a while to whom things will end up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u31	We are, of course, coming from a situation in which the predecessor of this Secretary of State was really not prepared to raise this issue. We discussed the concession to the NS not long ago. I asked for social security to be a separate issue. That wasn't even mentioned; it wasn't negotiable. So we come a long way when it comes to social security. I am also very pleased that this Secretary of State recognises that social security is really important and that it is not going well on that point. So I'm also happy with the $10 million. But, yes, these are structural measures. People are being hired, extra conductors. You don't want to give them a year's contract, they have to stay of course. However, I also hear the Secretary of State say that she is prepared to examine with the NS whether the measures taken can continue to apply. I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to do so, but, of course, expectations have been raised. If she wants to make a deal on those measures, so that those conductors stay, I'm prepared to withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u32	I think it is justified to look at the carrier itself. Mr Madlener, I think you agree with me. If you consider social security to be so important, and you feel that as a carrier you have a social role and you want to strengthen it, then it also makes sense to shift the resources you have more to these kinds of topics. That's why I'm asking you to give me the room to have that conversation. The other way around, I understand that some of the teams that have been deployed can't all disappear next year. It would be fantastic if it could be done, because then things would be a lot better, but that must of course be based on facts. That conversation with the NS should just take place. It must not then be so that it only depends on the Empire. I think we'll find each other on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u33	But we shouldn't make the mistake of the past that we're going to say it's just the NS that's about it. No, you also check the NS's policy and the Chamber will check you again. The Chamber really wants to interfere with the safety of the track. That has gone wrong in the past. Less than a year ago, we were discussing whether or not to close the gates. It just didn't work out. Now it seems like I can do what I'm happy about. So I hope that the Secretary of State will also bear in mind what has gone so wrong in the past and that it will not make those mistakes and that structural measures will be taken to make the railways safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u34	In the short period in which I hold this portfolio, I hope I have already shown you where I stand. I actually cleared that 10 million against the cliffs, not knowing where to end up. So that indicates exactly where my priority is and that of the Chamber. I think they are also on the same level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u35	Are you withdrawing the motion, Mr Madlener?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u37	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u38	Secondly, I come to Mrs van Veldhoven's motion on item No. 77. I would like to ask her to hold this motion because I am actually doing, in part, what is being asked. I'm in agreement with the different drivers. By the way, the provinces were not mentioned in the motion, but of course they have an important role to play. The same goes for the Fietsersbond. We also want to involve regional carriers, as well as all kinds of other parties to see how we can move forward on this subject until 2020 but also beyond 2020. However, I cannot promise to do so here, which is why I am so precisely committed to it that I am immediately financially committed. We are now at the table in that administrative consultation with the intention to come to solutions together and make a plan. Probably before the summer we will meet and just after the summer, somewhere in the autumn I hope to come up with a proposal towards the Chamber. However, I would ask the Chamber to allow this to be dealt with first with other parties. I deal in the spirit of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u39	The Secretary of State is precise and also says that she is doing part of what I ask. She speaks immediately about the financial commitment, but the motion does not speak explicitly about it. It is not necessarily impossible that there is a need for financial commitment, but at least I am not asking the Secretary of State to make a budget for it tomorrow. So where is the Secretary of State's doubt? I am concerned that earlier policy documents stated that there is no longer any involvement of the Empire after 2020. However, looking at the objectives and the deficits, it seems impossible for this to be resolved without the involvement of the Empire. That's why I want to keep that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u40	But I don't need that motion because there's that involvement. However, I do not want this motion to lead an independent life in the conversations, while some others, who may also have to move a little, remain still for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u41	I would not like to give that handicap to the Secretary of State in her talks, because of course not all responsibility lies with the Empire and other parties have to take their share of it. I'd like to give the Secretary of State the room to have those conversations. I'll wait for her letter in September. I will therefore proceed with the motion. At least it will not be voted on and we will wait and see what the Secretary of State comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u42	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (28642, No. 77). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u43	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I would advise against 78 of Mrs De Boer's. I can assure the Chamber that the 10 million has been partly used for measures that benefit Mrs De Boer and others, namely extra effort in those places where it is difficult, extra effort with all kinds of measures other than the public transport teams as a whole. Here too, if you want regional public transport to be safer, it cannot of course be that everyone is just looking at us. It really can't be. I know that Mrs De Boer is very much in favour of the phenomenon of contracting and that she also considers it important for the regional authorities to wave the bill. I can assure her that there are many of her fellow party members with those regional authorities. I would actually like to say to Mrs De Boer: do you call on me to make the same gesture that I have made? That would really help. Then we also talk about taking responsibilities at those levels where they belong. In response to the remark that something must be done, I can say at your service. I agree. I will say something about this later on in the direction of Mr Houwers. I have tried to use part of the additional amount somewhat more broadly than is strictly necessary from my role as concessionaire, but it must also come from the other side. This motion suggests that it is above all a matter of national sovereignty. Mrs De Boer said the same in the explanatory statement to the motion. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u44	I think we can or can agree on the broad lines. The Secretary of State is already moving along. It's a little bit further than just the NS. I wholeheartedly support the Secretary of State's call to activate the local authorities and to see whether they can contribute to this. For example, we have the line Alphen aan den Rijn-Gouda. Then it must not be the case that in that very broad Randstad, the security teams cannot be deployed in an incident on this one line. You just have to look at the safety of the whole public transport. I am breaking through a small tradition, because we have all held our motions. Unfortunately, I will not do that with this motion. However, I would like us to see how, if necessary, we can use the security teams on the other lines as well. Safety sure goes wider than just the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u45	I don't dispute the latter, but I find the first one problematic. In fact, Mrs De Boer's appeal to the regional authorities says: go back, because the Empire will take care of it. And we're just not gonna do that. No way! I'd like to discourage this motion for that reason. I don't think it's fair either. Mrs De Boer cannot say to me that she agrees with my appeal and then drive forward the escape clause. That's what she does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u46	I think we can really find each other. I will see if I can amend the motion on that point, including the call on the regional authorities to put in place, contribute and so on, in the motion. That's how I'll meet the Secretary of State. She can use it to screen the conversations she's going to have. Again, I do insist that safety does not end with the NS trains. We see that time and time again on the trains. We need to see how we can deploy security teams across public transport. This is also an appeal to the local authorities. After all, it does not end at the doors of the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u47	We agree on the latter. But then Mrs De Boer really has to make another motion. We now have the 10 million. This amount is also partly used in public transport via a number of tools that will be available. The teams of the NS are mainly at those stations where the real nasty bottlenecks are. In the event of an incident, these people will not confine themselves to that part of the track where their own train starts or ends. But the other way round, if Mrs De Boer wants regional procurement, the concessionaires, to take responsibility, they must do so themselves. That is what needs to be said. If everyone thinks he or she might be able to get it through the 10 million, it's just not gonna work. That would also be a shame, because then we are not going to do what the Chamber asks: to roll out this good action. I believe there is broad support for this. Then it must also yield butter to the fish. That's how I'd like to do it. Mrs De Boer knows my opinion on the motion as it now stands. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 79. This motion concerns the use of means of violence and the provision of instruments for this purpose. I assume the proposers are thinking of batons or pepper spray. That's really something the Minister of V and J is about. So the Chamber can discuss that with him. I can tell you that the public transport workers are having a very intense discussion about this. Don't think that giving extra instruments is appreciated by everyone. There are also a lot of people who say: if you literally give me arms, then maybe in the long run I will be more vulnerable. So this debate is not one-dimensional, but it should not be conducted through this committee. Security and Justice is on this issue. For procedural reasons, I must discourage the motion. I can imagine the debate, but my suggestion is to have that with the Minister of Security and Justice, because he is going about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u48	What the Secretary of State is doing now, I find a little too easy. We have had a whole debate on social security. This point has also been discussed. We do not ask in the motion: Madam Secretary of State, give those people pepper spray. We ask: 'Dear Government', see if the powers and means of violence they now have fit the mission and the tasks they now have to carry out. The Secretary of State is part of the government, so I ask her to take this as an approach to a discussion with her colleague of justice. I fully understand if we ever have a discussion about this in another place. However, in view of the debates that this committee has held with this Secretary of State, it is very justified that we should have the Chamber make a statement in that direction from this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u49	I disagree. Then the committee should have invited the Minister of Security and Justice. In this debate he could have spoken with the committee on this subject. That may happen, of course, but it is not my competence. I think it goes wider than just public transport and the question of what to give the employees there or not. I've just added a sound color to it. This broader consideration can only be made from the point of view of Security and Justice. I really think it should take place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u50	I have a correction for the report. Mr Van Helvert indicated that the Secretary of State is a member of the government, but she is not formally. She's a member of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u51	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u52	This is therefore a correction for the report. But what isn't can still come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u53	I've noticed that there's confusion about that before. Let's keep it that way. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 80 of the Houwers member. On this motion, I have the same request, namely the request to hold it. The text of this motion may in itself mean that it is mainly a matter of the regional carriers, calling on the regional authorities to shoulder their responsibilities. But unfortunately Mr Houwers slipped away in the explanatory statement. The explanatory statement is important for the context, but I do not share the view expressed by Mr Houwers. That's why I'm asking him to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u54	I have another proposition. Maybe I can leave the text like that and then forget the explanation. There may be a novoum if the Secretary of State takes over the motion. Since yesterday, this possibility exists on the basis of Mr Van der Staaij's ideas. So we could go down that road. What I just want is to encourage the Secretary of State to, in view of what she has done at NS, also encourage the regional authorities to do more about social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u55	Then I'll come to the operative part, because there's still one "dirty" in there. It points out the need to "in cooperation with local authorities" or not. This somewhat excludes their contribution. We can also discuss with the local authorities the question: what are you going to do, together with your carriers? Maybe that's a better deal. We're gonna have that conversation in the short term. I'll say something about that in a minute. Of course, I am also prepared to report on this, because I know that it lives in the Chamber widely. Perhaps Mr Houwers could withdraw or hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u56	I'm gonna think about moving in. I shall at least delete the words 'whether or not'. If I put the motion to the vote, I will do so without those three words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u57	The Houwers' motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 80 (). [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional resources have recently been allocated to increase social security on the railways but have only been made available to the NS;]] [[considers that it is desirable to increase social security on the regional rail network;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with local authorities, to also seek to increase social security on the regional rail network,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u58	That's right. There is also Mr Bruins' request to report on the approach to full trains, specifically to include the question surrounding the rush train. I'm prepared to do that. There is now a joint review of the NS and of us regarding the approach. I'm gonna share it with the Room. I shall refer Mr Bruins' specific point back to the letter. I have already said enough about social security. Mrs Van Veldhoven's question has already been taken into account in the reply to the motions. Mr Van Helvert asked about the state of play. We discussed them in detail in the plenary debate. The same applies to the question of where we stand when it comes to the cameras and the gates. Actually, everything's running on schedule. But it didn't go well with the double-humanization. That is why we have made an extra effort in this area over the past month. There was some kind of impatience among the unions. People were wondering if everyone was doing what was promised. We're in the middle of a joint review. The finger is being held on the wrist in this respect and it is being examined whether we are doing what works or whether it may have to be changed. The results will come to the Chamber at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-5.u59	I thank the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment for coming to the Chamber. We are going to vote on Tuesday on the motions which will be put to the vote.
