ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a fine day on which I, as the first speaker, can speak in Question Time, for which I would like to thank you. Lobbying here and around the Lower House is something of every day. The activities of former ministers, State Secretary and MPs as lobbyists are no exception. That is also an added value for the Chamber. This also applies to the activities developed by former CDA Minister for Foreign Affairs Ben Bot, which was described last Saturday by NRC Handelsblad. However, it is very important in lobbying, even when you talk about the sensitive dossiers of which the former Minister deals with a number, that integrity and transparency are paramount. This is also something the Foreign Minister made clear on Radio 1 last Saturday. Three questions from that point of view. Is the Minister aware of the Professional Association's protocols for Public Affairs? Does the Minister consider that this particular case should be dealt with with by former Minister Bot and in general along the lines of the own trade association's protocols? Is it an idea to have these protocols lead the way in the contacts with lobbyists? Does it happen that lobbyists have contacts with officials from the Foreign Office under false pretenses? Does it generally happen that people say they're coming for "A," but they end up having a conversation about "B"? Has this been the case in this particular case? Did the former minister in question come for subject A, but was he going to talk about subject B? Is that going to be exchanged with those involved? Has there also been an exchange of views with those involved in this particular case that this is undesirable? Is it the case with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that officials under the direction of various directors, in this case the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are being played out against each other by lobbyists, or that the officials concerned are being played out against each other? Is that what is happening in general and is that what happened in this particular case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate you on International Women's Day. I thank Mr Teven for his questions, which I will pass by one by one. In general, I say to Mr Teeven that transparency must be paramount. There's nothing wrong with lobbying. It is good to be able to understand the views of organisations and companies on different issues, but it must be clear under which pretexts someone comes and with what purpose. I must confess that I do not know the protocols of the BVPA lobby organization, because I am not the boss of that lobby organization. The chairman of this lobby organisation is Mr Jaap Jelle Feenstra. He said last Saturday in NRC Handelsblad: be clear what interest you come from. You may lobby for anything that God has not forbidden, he reports, as long as you do it professionally and with integrity. When I look at those protocols, I see that transparency is paramount. I support that, because lobbying can certainly serve a purpose. I myself like to have direct contact with companies and organisations and not through hired lobbyists. I am pleased to hear from the people who really are involved, what interests they represent and what they consider important. I welcome the fact that there is a professional association and that those who count themselves in that profession follow the BVPA protocols. Mr Teeven asked whether it would be possible for lobbyists to report to officials under false pretences. For civil servants, it is wise to take note of different views. It is therefore wise for them to ask what they should be talking about when they enter into a conversation. If it turns out that this is not the case then, it seems to me clear that it would be wise to counter-launch and indicate that this is not the desired situation. It is not wise for the lobbyists concerned, because the door is of course closed at the next meeting. Is it known to me that officials are being played against each other and are we talking about this? Playing against each other is never wise. You must fight with open sight, whatever that is, and keep the same story with open sight to both one person and the other person. Should it occur, I think that is a practice that should not be allowed. I'm sure that'll be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you for the Minister's answers, but it's not quite complete yet. I asked if people would be played against each other. I heard the Secretary of State on Radio 1 on Saturday. I understand clearly that the supplier has also complained about the intervention in a specific case. The minister says she prefers to deal directly with suppliers. However, if lobbyists come to the department officials and do not act according to the rules, will the minister go to the suppliers to say that they do not want it anymore and that they can forget an assignment if they send these people on her roof, because it is not transparent and not as it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	In general, Mr Teeven expresses himself somewhat less diplomatically than I do myself. It is true, however, that when I am approached through lobbyists, I have the habit of telling companies that they should report directly to us or to the officials if there is something we should know, that they should not do so by all kinds of detours and that they should simply be honest. This is definitely on the agenda. I really prefer direct contacts. If it happens, I say, perhaps a little more diplomatic than Mr Bitches, to the company or organisations concerned that I am not of any use to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	Let me then put my question a little more diplomatic, because I would like to take the point to heart that it is not diplomatic. I do not go into a specific case, but in the past period, as was written in NRC Handelsblad, has the Minister complained to suppliers or companies with which the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development is doing business, about the actions of lobbyists in concrete cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	That they came to the ministry under false pretenses, say they wanted to talk about a and then talk about b a little sneaky?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u10	Okay, then I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u11	Former Minister Ben Bot takes advantage of the situation and his position by lobbying for the oil industry. In doing so, he is fooling ministers, officials and MPs. Now ministers or MPs in the media say you can't say no when a former minister calls. I don't get it. You can just say no, can't you? Can the Minister here promise that someone who cheats on the case, Ben Bot, simply won't come in, that they'll just say no when he rings the doorbell, because they don't trust him and because he's abusing his position? Is the Minister prepared to say here that these lobbyists are simply not getting in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u12	In my view, I have just made it clear that I prefer to have direct contact with companies and organisations and that it must be clear in all cases, if lobbyists want to have a conversation, with what interest they come and what topics they want to discuss and that they must be on a straight track. I assume that all the lobbyists in the Netherlands are hearing this now and that they are sticking to the rules when it comes to agreements with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u13	Has the Minister at the CDA, whether it is the party summit or the political group summit in Parliament, raised the issue that such conceited lobbying by ex-CDA Minister Bot is really unacceptable and how has the CDA reacted to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u14	I haven't had any contact with the CDA. I think it is my responsibility to indicate what I consider desirable and not desirable. That is what I have done with the parties involved, and I think that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u15	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u16	This is your second question, Mr De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u17	Yes, please, Mr President, my second question. Thank you. Is the Minister prepared to report this to the Chamber if such underhanded CDA lobby action occurs again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u18	I would not accept Mr De Roon's words in this way. It is clear, however, that I said just now, in response to Mr Van Raak, that all the lobbyists in the Netherlands know that I prefer to do business directly with companies and organisations and that, if they want to have a conversation, they should simply indicate what this conversation is about. That applies to all lobbyists. I assume that everyone who listens cares, whether that's a party top or a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you. No, Mr Van Roon, everyone is entitled to two questions. You too.
