ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u1	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contributions in the first term. Mr Van Rooijen has been very much introduced in the creation and background of the income-dependent contribution. I already knew that, and we noticed that last year. We had the first exchange of views on this at that time. He also referred to that. I also had this exchange of views with the group in the House of Representatives this year. Mr Van Rooijen once again states that 50PLUS does not agree that the income-dependent contribution is a button that allows you to change purchasing power. I'm just gonna say it at home. In practice, however, it is, as is the healthcare allowance. If the costs are not that bad, the whole pallet is looked at to determine where we have to compensate people and where we should not do so. There are all kinds of possibilities for that. The Chamber also held the debate on income policy towards older people with Mr Wiebes. I don't think it's a good idea to do that again. Mr Van Rooijen is actually fighting the role of the contribution. There's not much I can do about that. She's the way she is now. If Mr Van Rooijen thinks that guarantees should be provided and that the income-related contribution should not be increased or reduced for purchasing power purposes, he should lay it down in an own-initiative proposal. We are not making that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u3	There are actually two sides: a substantive and procedural one. I was referring in particular to the procedural side. In view of the democratic nature of a ministerial arrangement on possible 1% increase in the lowest rate, which has a budgetary effect of 600 million, I wondered whether you could say that, as with the care allowance, you should be able to switch buttons to balance it. The other aspect is the content, but I will come back to that in the second term. Because of the limited time I had given myself, I did not refer to the card game at the beginning of the cabinet formation. Apart from the Minister, a number of experts, who were not so great at the time, made a major contribution to the introduction of an income-dependent care premium, as if they were not there yet. The Minister of Health will now share my surprise about this, even though she had it at the time. That income-dependent care premium was already there. Fortunately, the others cut in four days. Mr Wiegel and I have both contributed to this. I will come back to that in the second term. The main responsibility is not to provide care contributions to pursue income policies. That's what tax policy is for. Maybe I'll come back to that on the other side of this house. Last week we saw that this is quite chaotic and very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u4	I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen that the income-dependent premium has long been there. I was not very sad about the change in those plans either, because of course we have a care allowance. On the one hand, the nominal premium is actually dependent on income through the care allowance. On the other hand, we have an income-dependent contribution. This means that care is paid on an income-dependent basis. We agree on that. We have also said that we do not intend to reduce the low or high rate. I am simply saying that annual purchasing power and burden decision-making also looks at these types of variables. That's just a fact of life. It's the way it is now. If Mr Van Rooijen thinks that we should deal with this differently, he will have to deal with it differently. We also had this debate last year. That's why I'm trying to sum it up a little bit. As I said last year, I have no intention of putting forward a legislative proposal for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u5	I'm happy with the latter. I would like to join colleagues who have expressed their gratitude for the great commitment of both the Minister and the Secretary of State. Whatever you may think of the policy content, I have a great deal of appreciation for that. It's not easy to control these two portfolios for four years. I am concerned about whether the Minister can share my feelings that were raised last year. While there was 5 billion tax relief for workers and a one-off increase in the elderly discount, there was a structural burden increase of a few hundred euros. So there was a one-off increase in the elderly discount. In fact, this was clearly linked to the income index through the care premium. It's not for that. If anything is done about the income ratio, it is up to the Secretary of State for Finance and not to the Minister for Health, as I recall from a further past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u6	That's right. That is why purchasing power debates are always held with the Minister of Social Affairs, or with the Secretary of State for Finance when he submits the tax plan. RIVM issued a report on the artificial grass at my request this morning. That was sent to the House of Representatives. I'll also send a copy to the First Chamber. I indicated this morning in my offer letter to the House of Representatives that we are responding this week. I'll make sure that the First Chamber gets my reaction and the report on the artgras research. I have to say that during this cabinet period a great deal of research has been carried out into the exploitation and effects of one's own risk. I mention the most important and then I am not at all complete. The most important thing is the research by Intomart in 2013 among insured persons into the reasons for avoiding care. Vektis investigated the actual use of care in the first and second lines in 2014 and 2015 following the increase in its own risk in 2013. At the end of 2015, NIVEL completed an intensive investigation into care avoidance due to its own risk, in collaboration with the Consumers' Association, the National Family Doctors Association and the health insurance companies. The added value of this research is that it combines survey results with insight into actual behavior, such as the number of GP visits and recovered medicines. They were never put next to each other before that. Two months ago, Vektis showed what the use of one's own risk is, and we gave insight into the various compensatory measures taken by municipalities. Mr Van Rooijen thought that was a fleeting quickscan. It was, but that's what we promised the Chamber. Otherwise, we couldn't do it. The background to that scan was that municipalities took compensatory measures in many different ways. We have given the Chamber an overview of this. I do not consider the various studies on the effects of the own contribution in the Wmo and the Long-Term Care Act. The same applies to research carried out by various international organisations. My predecessors have also had several investigations carried out. Think, for example, of the no-claim system. In short, we really know a lot. The general picture is that there is a lack of care and that this is happening for various reasons. In the broad NIVEL study, 15% indicated that in the previous year they did not have a doctor's visit. A fifth had done this because of possible follow-up costs or because they did not know that the general practitioner is outside their own risk. That's 3% of the insured. For example, the others indicated that they didn't like to take pills, that the disease would pass itself or that they didn't have time. The argument for why they didn't do it varies enormously. The percentage of 3 is comparable to that of 2009 and 2012. Also from the declaration dates there is no evidence for an increase in the avoidance of general practitioner care. On the basis of the declaration data, NIVEL also states that there is no evidence that patients from disadvantaged neighbourhoods have over time given up general care more often than other patients. There is no indication that the development of avoiding care differs between groups of different socio-economic status. So we know that care avoidance is fairly constant over time, despite the increase in one's own risk. That is also not surprising when you consider that the increase in your own risk has been accompanied by an increase in the health care allowance. The care allowance at the minimum level is now €1.066 for a single person. That amount has never been higher. A lot of people are homesick about the health insurance system, because they always found that very supportive, but someone with a minimum income is better off now. In 2005 he paid almost €550 in premium and no-claim, now he pays on average €460 in premium. That is €90 less, so the own risk minus the care allowance. For this, someone gets a lot more value for money. The package has been considerably expanded, with many new medicines and new treatments. Neighborhood care and mental health care have become part of the Health Insurance Act. The Health Insurance Act is therefore very supportive. I am not even talking about the fact that all the risks are shared, that we have almost no uninsured people anymore and that rich and poor receive the same treatment from the same doctor in the same hospital. Do we know everything now? No, it's not. Almost every research has limitations, including the NIVEL study. NIVEL argues that certain vulnerable groups are lacking in questionnaire research, which may underestimate care avoidance. It is not about a large group, but it is about a specific and difficult group to define, which cannot get a grip on one's own life. Moreover, we pay a great deal of attention to this group in our approach to confused people, because they too must be assured of care. NIVEL also points to a number of questions that could be looked at more closely, for example how people do not pick up their medicines or how they do not go to the specialist with the referral letter from the GP. We don't know much about that. We can learn from practice. We are talking to the National Family Doctors Association to see what general practitioners know and what they can do. That is what this is about: in practice, action must be taken on the basis of what we know, because research is not an end in itself. I also think that a lot of parties have expressed their minds about their own risks. I have read that in the various election programmes. I do not think that additional research will change the mind of parties who are for or against their own risk. The parties have long taken their positions. We've had a whole research pathway to care avoidance. I think it's much more useful to investigate other things, such as appropriate use of care. How can the doctor be much better a gatekeeper in this system, on health grounds? How can we further strengthen and improve risk resolution? I really do not think in the discussion that the costs covered by own risk still have to be paid if you abolish your own risk. If you eliminate your own risk of €385, we know that the premium goes up by €284, namely €22 for an income-dependent contribution and an increase in the nominal premium with the rest, i.e. €262. That care has to be paid for. That's the honest story, because there are few simple choices. Eventually, that care has to be paid for. The brake effect is therefore gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u7	It is true that positions have been adopted, perhaps for the time being, also with a view to the coming years. But thinking never hurts, not even right now. The Minister says that no risk of his own has major consequences, but is it also conceivable that his own risk will be applied differently? For example, for a first treatment you could not get the whole risk right on your plate but a portion. So someone might take the first step in the first quarter if they need care. I believe that such a system already exists in Belgium. Can the Minister come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u8	I can do that already, because there has been a lot of research on this too. I happen to know from my past that there are sometimes ideas within political parties to fill in one's own risk differently. This is such an idea. Your own risk is something very Dutch. Many other countries often pay part of the hospital bill themselves. Then you're not through your own risk at once, but you pay a particle of your own risk every time you go to the doctor. The disadvantage of this is that the ceiling, with the same cost recovery, has to be very high to raise the same amount. Then chronically ill generally start paying more. What if a younger man breaks his leg? With an equal ceiling, for example at €385, he lost his own risk at once. As soon as he gets there, I'm just gonna say what's lost is $50. As a healthy person, he's not gonna fill his own risk. This must then be achieved by the people who make great use of care. All of these variants are "just take a look at Care Choices" in Map "Map" for all kinds of election programs often already calculated. For my party, for example, a previous time a risk has been combined with own payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u9	The Minister also talked about special groups. She mentioned, for example, confused persons. I know the ggz well, because I was chairman of GGZ West North Brabant for a year and a half. I remember that the first step in particular is often difficult. Patients in the ggz, who already have psychological problems, find it very difficult, for example, to understand that they have to pay heavy, expensive medicines all by themselves the first time. Then they don't want those drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u10	Different solutions have been devised for this. Firstly, all insurers are allowed to pay their own risk on a spread basis. So someone doesn't pay that €385 in one go but does it monthly. Secondly, the own risk is very often included in the collections with which the minimums are ensured by municipalities. That is no exception: a lot of municipalities are insuring their own risk. Then there is no threshold for the lowest incomes. By the way, we see that the dentist is also very often insured, but I will come back to that in a moment. So I really think we have done a lot of research. You can differ on whether your own risk is useful, whether we need to increase the premium by €284, whether we need to keep our own risk at €385 or whether we need to do it differently through taxes. You can come up with all kinds of things, but I don't think any new research is gonna help. 22% of people avoid the dentist. Is that an individual or a social problem? The dentist was removed from the sickness fund package in 1995 on the basis of advice from the Ziekkenfondsraad, the National Council for Public Health and a proposal from the Royal Netherlands Society for the Promotion of Dentistry. If you wanted dental care back in the basic package now, it would cost EUR 2 billion, according to the CPB. In practice, 80% of Dutch people have supplementary insurance. For the lowest incomes, municipalities in their collective insurance cover dental costs. It may seem like everyone has to pay the dentist themselves, but for the lowest incomes that care is often covered. Most of the people have dental insurance. I also do not see any cover to fund that 2 billion collectively again. That would mean that we're going to pay that amount again with each other and get the bill up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u11	So it's an individual problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u12	I don't know. All the costs you make, you make for the individual. We have made collective arrangements to cover these costs. So we see that where a person may be less inclined, on the basis of his income, to insure himself for these costs, municipalities capture them in collections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u13	The minimum range is 110% to 120%. Some municipalities take 130% of the minimum to make arrangements. In the quickscan, I think it is written that the group of 130% and above sees a number of bottlenecks. However, it remains an individual problem. My question was also when something becomes such a social problem that we have to move in one way or another. Perhaps the dentist is the wrong example, but I also mentioned the socio-economic health differences. When will these differences become a theme that we say we should organise from within the system and when will we leave this issue with the individual? The minister says that people can be insured individually for the dentist. That's right. Apparently, there's a movement that people don't go to the dentist anymore, for whatever reason. The costs will most likely play a major role in this. But when will that become a collective problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u14	I do not know, because there are a lot of people not insured who pay for it themselves, because insurance for those people is ultimately less lucrative. Why that 20% isn't insured, I don't know. The reasons for this will be very diffuse and different. The Secretary of State will come back to the socio-economic health differences, but I can tell you that there has been an incredible amount of action in this area in the last four years to reduce these differences as a society, in which everyone plays their own role, not only the individual, but also the whole skin around the individual, in order to make it easier to live healthier and make those healthy choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u15	Finally, Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u16	My final point, Mr President. The minister just said, "I don't know." I can also imagine her saying: you have a phenomenon at some point and if that grows, it becomes a social problem. Somewhere there is a turning point, but the Minister cannot give a clear answer. I understand that, because that is, of course, difficult to assess. Anyway, we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u17	In fact, I would argue that care for the lowest incomes has become more and more affordable over the last ten years. That care has become €90 cheaper compared to ten years ago. I think there are very few things in society that we can say have become cheaper in the last ten years. So together we have built a very social system, on the basis of which the people with the broadest shoulders bear more burdens than the people with the narrow shoulders. This has been worked out to the full in the healthcare sector. Mr Don wondered why the care agreements were more successful in terms of efficiency and yields than in terms of quality agreements. I think that the care agreements initially provided administrative calm and financial clarity. When I arrived, I had my first conversations with some professional groups who were very dissatisfied with the way it was going. I also had talks with the hospitals, who said: how can we run a hospital when we have delivered what has been contracted and afterwards the minister comes around with the hat to retrieve everything that has been exceeded? That's not the way to run a hospital either. That has been the reason to sit down at the table with each other. That is what led to the main agreements. These basic agreements have confirmed and supported the role of insurers as purchasers on behalf of the insured. These agreements have reduced the growth of healthcare expenditure to the level of economic growth. They are now about equal, which means that care is sustainable. That's no reason to sit back, because with the prime minister leaning back, you'll see that it's going to break up again. In any case, I think it is an enormous achievement of the field, with which I have concluded the main agreements. The field has delivered more care for less money. The people in the workplace did that in the end; all I had to do was sign it. I think they really deserve to be congratulated on that. Incidentally, I do not see the contradiction between affordability and quality. The quality of care in the Netherlands is high. Good quality also means less recovery operations, more appropriate use, less waste and combating fraud. Within the main agreements, we have made a lot of agreements that were ultimately intended to generate the proceeds that we had to generate with each other. Those were also often substantive conversations. Is that better to do? Yeah, I think we could do even better. I would therefore recommend that we do so in a more concrete and even better way next time. That the proceeds do not relate to the content of the agreements, I really do see differently. We have also indicated this in the Court of Auditors' report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u18	Mr Don, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u19	I'll be brief. I read the Court of Auditors' report. I also see the efforts made by the field, in particular the task of keeping to the financial commitments. The financial commitments are inevitable; they must be adhered to. They are also recorded, and they are corrected if they are not respected. However, if you look at the substantive agreements, you will see that three topics have been discussed which are worth pursuing. We are therefore seeing an imbalance between the financial framework, which is tightly regulated and hastily binding, and the substance of which is said to be working together on this. I see that. I think the Minister is more inclined to say that we are sticking to the financial commitments, and we are going to do our best for quality. That's the contradiction I was trying to make clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u20	If you look at the way in which the agreements have been reached and the agreements that have been made on them, then I think that there has been a great deal of commitment to the substantive agreements. I refer to the concentration of complex care that is in it and to the substitution, so more in the first line. What do I learn from these basic agreements? What would I do myself? I think I'd put more result commitment into it. You can make substitution agreements and say: you have to substitute and we are setting up monitoring, as we have done now, because money follows care. Perhaps we should say at some point: we want it to be faster, so care will follow the money. We then simply take things off the frame and they go to the first line, for example. Do you see that happening in practice? Honestly, I do. I am looking, for example, at the contracts currently being concluded with hospitals such as Bernhoven, where over the years a decrease in multi-annual contracts is really a shrink, which is opposed to a build-up of care in the neighborhood. This may have been a little difficult to get started, but it certainly has been done. Can we learn from it? Yes. That is actually what Mr Don says. Can we be tighter on that? Yes. I think we can do this. Then there's the international equation. We can make the best comparison if we take the percentage of gross domestic product, because then you correct the size and size of the economy. Within the OECD, we are in seventh place for total care. As far as curative care is concerned, we are at thirteenth place in terms of costs. I think that's a very nice score. Despite all the stories that the Netherlands is the most expensive in the world and the Netherlands is at the top of the world in terms of costs, I note that we are just in the thirteenth place. That's really not something to be ashamed of. If we look at the quality, we score good to reasonable. For example, on important indicators such as the 30-day mortality rate following a heart attack, the issue of antibiotics and the avoidable hospitalisation, we are among the best. Comparisons between the Commonwealth Fund and the European Health Consumer Index also show that Dutch care is doing really well. By the way, I do not think that is something we can sit back on. What are these lists for? It's not a sports competition. I think these lists are important, because we can look at what we are doing less and at what points we can learn from them. What are our weaknesses? That is why we must use these investigations. So do we. For example, in the field of prevention, we see in the Commonwealth Fund that in the Netherlands, compared with other countries, doctors and professionals give very little lifestyle advice. A Dutch doctor is not inclined to say: lose weight first and if you have lost weight and still have a stomach condition, you will be given an antacid. Dutch doctors do that, if you look at it internationally, not at all well. The number of infections in Dutch hospitals is relatively high. Given baby mortality, we were in the tail of Europe in the field of birth care, but due to the enormous effort of all those obstetricians, gynecologists and general practitioners who started working together, we went from low to middle. That's where you can see that those lists are having an effect. We were ashamed of the figures on infant mortality, but the efforts of the field have led us to be at least in the middle and not in the tail. The aim now is to come forward. I find these lists very useful for that, but we certainly should not be ashamed of our position. I think we are doing very well in the Netherlands. That compliment is not meant for us, by the way. It is intended in particular for the people who do the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u21	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input and for their kind words on the policy of the last four years. We may not have always agreed on the substance of this, but we have tried to do what is necessary. In addition to Mr Don's kind words, he raised two issues. I think it's good to discuss it. Mr Don asked about the socio-economic health differences in the Netherlands. In addition, he asked for a review of or a review of the reforms. First of all, I come to the socio-economic health differences. I think it's a good idea to try and capture the facts in a very concise way. The health of all Dutch people has increased in recent years. This also applies to citizens with a "lower" socio-economic status, as it is called so ugly. I still hate that word. However, there are still health differences. Over the past ten years, the difference in life expectancy between Dutch people with the highest and the lowest level of education is about six years. That does not mean that no progress has been made. Life expectancy has risen in its entirety. This increase also applies to people with lower levels of education. Life expectancy for women has increased from 77.7 years to 80.2 years and life expectancy for men has increased from 72.3 years to 76.6 years. You can see that social health in the Netherlands is rising for all groups, but there must be extra attention to health differences. I very much agree with Mr Don on this point. At the same time, you must note that these differences are very persistent and very complex. That's what we said in all the analyses we discuss regularly. It's gonna take a long time. You have to make long-term investments. There is often a complex problem. Sometimes these are factors such as an economic crisis, physical factors or environmental factors. But behavior can also be a very important cause of these differences. There is therefore no solution to this issue. There are several solutions. At the same time, I note that it should not only come from the government or the parents. You should try to set up the environment in such a way that the chances of these differences are reduced. Health protection measures, such as vaccinations and screening, are taken from the government. In addition, there is environmental policy. This is also done for a healthy food supply: less fat and less salt. It also maintains and establishes low-threshold facilities. Think of the social neighbourhood teams or projects like Healthy Pregnancy 4 All. Together with all kinds of other parties, prevention programmes will be put in place, ranging from sports fields in the neighborhoods and local sports coaches to the offer of the Healthy School. In this way, healthy canteens will also be provided. From 2020 it is legally prohibited to smoke on school grounds. In short, both in terms of prevention policy in the formal sense and in the projects and programmes, the necessary measures are being taken. That does not alter the fact that Mr Don is also right on the third track. He asked: what more could you do to pay attention to special groups? There are, after all, very important points of departure. Take the policy on smoking. Mr Don has already asked for this. Indeed, it appears that the proportion of smokers in people with low education is much higher than in those with high education: 29% versus 17%. That dividing line is much stronger when it comes to smoking during pregnancy. In 2015, 22% of the less educated pregnant women and 0.9% of the more educated pregnant women smoked. For us, this is a reason to say: we do not like this structuralally. We have wondered what we could do to ensure that we take meaningful steps on this issue. We have also set up a task force to ensure that we can make a joint effort with future parents, with the consultation offices and with the pediatricians. This concerns the question of what we can do to ensure that the greatest impact is made with the environment, with the help of the medical professionals and with the help of all kinds of programs. We will also do this at the MBO and VMBO schools. It also shows that this will have the most impact. There are communication pathways, but there is also very targeted information, supported by general policy. Don't think of selling under 18, frightening pictures on the packages, the discussion about the displayban, which will start soon, the programs for pregnant and vmbo schools and the avoidance of attractive packages for young people. This last measure will enter into force in spring 2017. We have had a lot of discussion about the question of smoking policy. I thought Mr. Don asked if I'd do enough. I always hear the other story: don't you do too much in that area? After all, we have taken quite a few measures in this area. Mr Don asked a specific question about the insurers. It is true that, according to the laws and regulations, insurers can exclude certain activities or stop programmes from their own risk for certain target groups. A number of insurers do that, but I agree with Mr Don that insurers could get that more on the retina. We could be even more active in that. The Minister and I are prepared to continue the discussion with the insurers on that point. We'll do the same. In addition, it should be noted that the general practitioner's assistance in stopping smoking is beyond his own risk in any case. The focus we want to place will certainly lead us, more than ever, to focus our efforts on special groups in addition to the general policy. I come on Healthy in the city. Mr Don had two specific questions about this: do you think it will help and what does that mean for the future? There have been a number of investigations on that point. I call URBAN40, LOCAL50 and Young people On Healthy Weight. The studies show that it is very effective if it is not just a programme, but if several parties work together to do prevention activities. This has a positive impact on health, particularly in neighbourhoods where large-scale measures have been taken on several themes at the same time. I'm positive about that. Mr Don asked me about my recommendations for my successor or successor. My recommendation is to continue that programme. We also intend to prepare the decision-making process for the continuation of the programme by mid-2017. In the meantime 164 municipalities in more than 380 neighbourhoods are participating in the programme. I think this is a very important boost and a very important move to ensure that this policy becomes normal and that it is placed on the municipal agenda. I come to the point of reform. You could say that this budget treatment comes at a special time. In recent years, we have talked a great deal about why, the desirability and the legislation needed to shape the reform of long-term care. I have very good memories of the debates and the many discussions we have had with this Chamber. We have talked very comprehensively and very considerately about this reform. I say this knowingly, because these laws have made it possible to reform, but with the amendment of the law, I am also listening to the input of this Chamber.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Perhaps it is also good to say here that some relativization is appropriate. We, you, me and politics as a whole can create a number of conditions to ensure that people can do their jobs, but it is mainly about people in the care that do good work. I am all those professionals that day in, day out, often with hard and soul, giving substance to the care and who in the past period also had to translate the changes in care into their own policies, very grateful for the good work, the many work but also the complicated work. I realize that those years have also been far from easy for the healthcare professionals. There was a lot coming at them. We have had to implement these reforms in times of financial crisis. Maybe it should have been a long time ago, but that doesn't take away the fact. With all the measures we have taken, it is good to see that we are now much better equipped for the future. The financial sustainability towards the future, which has nothing to do with government budgets, but above all with affordability for people without large wallets, has certainly brought us closer to these measures. We have made finances more sustainable, also in the light of a future in which systems should determine less what people get, a future in which care is provided according to individual needs and circumstances. Financial sustainability and quality change really had to be carried out in conjunction with each other. Anyone who wants to take care of a more human dimension, who wants it not to be about institutions, but about individuals, who wants it not to be about systems, but about people, must be willing to adapt those systems. We are indeed talking a lot about systems, more than I like, but that is necessary to make that movement. With the Chamber, I am also impatient about the ability to redeem the opportunities of reform. It is therefore a good thing that, in addition to formal reform, we also have an eye for practice. That is what we are now in the middle of. I do not agree with Mr Don that there is some sort of calamity every day. I'm talking to people in the field, caretakers, and aldermen working on taking advantage of the opportunities. They see them getting closer to the people. They also see that the institutional importance is becoming less and the individual interest is increasing. Improving care and supporting people can never go fast enough, but I am optimistic about it, not naively optimistic, because I am not saying that everything is going well. I see, however, that aldermen of all political colors, not least of colors other than those of my party, have picked up the glove everywhere. In all municipalities, community teams have started working to give care close to shape, so that that care is no longer paper, but practice. The neighborhood nurse gets her work back in that way. The same applies to the anchor point of people to find out for themselves what is needed. We bring the care back to its core, namely: what can I do for you? What do you need anyway? I spoke to a 80-year-old man who said, "I was 80 years old and someone from the city called to see if there was anything else he could do for me." That's how simple care can be. My wish for the coming years is to make care closer and recognizable again, to make care more personal again. As part of this reform, we have also done all we can to improve people's care. Decentralisation is not an administrative thing in this respect. It is intended that the government, which should be close to the people, can also stand alongside the citizens. It is not for nothing that we look with the local nurses' profession at how we can develop the area nurse's profession again for the future. It is not for nothing that we have legally enshrined in the Wmo that we are looking not only at those who need care because something is wrong, but also at the caregiver, so that a diagnosis of dementia is not only a diagnosis of the patient, but also of the caregiver. As far as domestic aid is concerned, it is not just the household aid sector that needs to be looked at. We need to look more broadly, including what personal services will be possible in the near future. Let us look at what a dementia-friendly society means. How can we combat the financial abuse of older people? How do we ensure that child abuse is dealt with? These are all examples of things that show that, in addition to all these laws, there has also been very hard work on providing good care. I also disagree with Mr Don's statement that the reforms have been carried out quickly, but that they have led to a lack of rights for people. The Wmo provides for the provision of appropriate facilities. The Central Board of Appeal has confirmed in its rulings what is stated in the law on that point. The Health Insurance Act, which regulates the care of the neighbourhood, refers to legal claims and to duty of care. The Youth Act establishes a legal right to appropriate facilities, based on careful investigation by municipalities and healthcare professionals. In the Long-Term Care Act there is an insured right, on the basis of which you are entitled to a place if the home no longer goes. All four laws contain the possibility of a personal budget. I therefore believe that, in addition to the projects to improve care in practice, we have indeed established very good rights in the various laws. Mr Don also asked me if I have any wishes for the future. Of course I do. I've already discussed a number of them. I think they are also in line with Mr Don's input on this point. There must be much less administrative burden. The professional must be given more space to practice his or her profession properly. The administrative burden has been a thorn in the eyes of many for ten years. That is a persistent problem in health care. We must continue to do so. Another persistent problem is how we deal with the problems of 18-min and 18-plus. How can we support young people, in the sense that we receive them when they are young, but also accompany them one step further when they grow up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u22	What the Secretary of State says about the administrative burden is right in the middle of the bull's-eye. The reduction is his first wish. The Minister and her Director-General for Curative Care, Mrs Leijten, has previously asked questions about it. It is known that the workload of general practitioners, especially because of the administrative burden, is so high that, for example, in the Leiden area, some suicides have occurred among general practitioners. I report that here with some shyness, but I am still confronted with doctors in my area who say to me: "You are in the First Chamber. It's a big problem." General practitioners spend so much time on administrative burdens that care for the patient suffers. So I support the Secretary of State when it comes to his first wish. I would also like to give him this as a priority for the next cabinet, because this is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u23	I myself would be a little cautious about Mr Van Rooijen's causal links, but the issue of administrative burdens is a multi-headed monster. Moreover, I have the good example of the general practitioners in mind in this regard. They have already taken significant steps, together with health insurers, in reducing administrative burdens not caused by national regulations, but by purchasing rules, agreements and control protocols. But this is indeed something for the whole concern. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that this should and should remain a priority. Moreover, I hope that I will soon be able to take a step forward in dealing with the administrative burden in long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u24	How much longer do you need, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u25	Two minutes, Mr. Chairman. The success of decentralisation will be determined mainly by tackling the persistent problems of 18-plussers and 18-miners, social care and work in neighbourhood teams, where the preventive outreach function should be strengthened. At local level, it is also much more necessary to establish links between youth aid, youth health care, education and debt relief. So my line for the future is: give space to municipalities. Do not say too quickly that it has to be otherwise, give room to municipalities, give room to the professionals, deal with the administrative burden and jointly improve the operation in practice, both through the conversations at the kitchen table and through the neighbourhood care in the nursing homes. This is the only way to improve healthcare in practice. Let us leave the system debate behind, perhaps including the system discussion on the part of the Chamber. Let us make it better in practice. Only in this way will care remain ready for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u26	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u27	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. I had only addressed my questions to her. I thank her for the promise that the First Chamber will also receive the letter on the artificial grass that has already been sent to the House of Representatives. We're gonna get a reaction in a week. We continue to disagree on the first issue. There is no point in repeating this, but I would like to make it clear to the Minister, with an example, that something is really at stake. When the Law was introduced, the concept of standardization of wages was a very large operation, behind which there was an administrative reason. The Secretary of State recently informed us in the answers that it was 8 billion when the taxable amount of the employer's care premium was removed from the employee. The pensioners and the self-employed then had to contribute to an operation of which they themselves had no advantage but had the disadvantage. That is what the cabinet saw, and that is what it said at the time: then we must take compensatory measures. At that time, fifteen measures were devised to alleviate the pain of the Law on standardization of pay. What I now see is that the premium for caring for pensioners and self-employed persons was reduced as one of the compensatory mitigating measures. That was in 2013. What is the cabinet doing a few years later, as if it had forgotten that it was structural compensation for a structural disadvantage? The tax rate also increased by 4% in the first tranche for pensioners. Three years later, one pretends that this did not happen, and says: that rate can actually go up again. In addition, it is forgotten that three years before that there was a good reason to reduce it. Last year this was discussed here, in the discussion of the Tax Plan and in a discussion that I had with this Minister shortly afterwards. What strikes me particularly is that it is said: it is true that there is an increase in the reduced premium to €400 net structural, but there is also an increase in the elderly discount. However, this increase in the elderly discount is only €140, while the increase is €400. The increase is structural, but the softening is one time. The old-age discount last year was a one-time thing. I also had this discussion with the Secretary of State. How is it that, apart from the linguistic difference, the cabinet does not know the economic and financial difference between structural and one-off? I find that very worrying, because I fear that in the future, if we are not reminded of this, we will once again be faced with structural burdens in the elderly, sometimes offset by a button once in a while, but then disappear. I would like to draw this Secretary of State's attention in particular. Otherwise this kind of knobs and buttons will continue to be turned, without keeping in mind the difference between structural and one-off and the difference between increase and illumination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u28	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do the raft. I have to think about my Aunt Jopie. She is 84 years old, lives in the municipality of Vlaardingen and at some point had an indication gentleman visiting. She then made the cynical remark: you do have the most fantastic work you can think of. "Why?" Asked that man surprised. "To get everyone's help away from the household," she said. I respect your observations, I say to you through the chairman, Mr Secretary of State, but I also have my own observations and we have them within the SP. Of course, there are good movements visible, but there are also a lot of movements that are not going well. We feel it and we experience it. Sometimes I doubt myself, in the vein of: gosh, do I look at our society with the good glasses? Do I see things happening now? Yeah, I see things happen every now and then that just don't go well. I do not want to trivialize them and I do not want to make them bigger than they are, but it is also the revenu of the system changes that we have been through. The same applies to the Minister with regard to his own risk. I've heard her story and I'm looking at it at the system level, but also at the perception of clients, who sometimes have a hard time getting business financed. They then have all kinds of arrangements, there are debts and the house is a little more expensive. I can talk to the Minister about this for a long time, but we are certainly not going to find each other in this Chamber this afternoon, and I do not think that is the intention either. I'm glad smoking is high on the agenda with the Secretary of State. I knew that a little bit. Smoking, of course, is a social problem. Somehow we have identified smoking as so harmful that we are making it a social problem. The dentist remains an individual problem. I'm just going to use that example, although that might not be entirely right. Somewhere, therefore, the choice is made to give something a social importance or to give a phenomenon individual importance. That's always a little captivating for me. I really do not need an answer today, because I do not think we will find each other in that either. But I'm still intrigued. When will something become a social problem? How big does it have to be? Or does that only depend on political colour? There is, of course, something substantive in it. Anyway, that's a comment I actually wanted to make. The Minister has explained in detail how much investigation has taken place. I shall put my question to the Council as an answer, so I shall not table a motion. In any case, there was not too much support for this, so I see my question as being answered in this respect. I welcome the comments made by the Secretary of State on 18-min and 18-plus. That's actually a problem. The administrative burden is getting out of hand. As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't even apply to the Empire so much. You'll see it at the health offices, but definitely in the municipalities. Every city's doing a really good job. With my other hat on I say: I work at ten municipalities. I deal with ten different purchasing structures, ten different settlement structures and ten different billing procedures. It's driving us crazy. You'll need managers and you'll have to hire additional people to manage those secondary processes. It is therefore extremely inefficient, but it is also a result of decentralisation. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u29	Mr. Chairman. Mr van Rooijen and I, but I also think the Secretary of State, have spoken several times about the income-dependent contribution. It remains true that in August an integral balance will be made on purchasing power, which means that some things go in the plus, in order to compensate other mints again. So to look at that sec on the care... Of course, care is a major issue for people, and that is why this is often taken into account. But I don't think we're going to agree on this entirely. I am extremely proud of what is being done in healthcare every day. When I go to work, I not only see the passion of people, but I also see how loving they are with people, what they achieve and what they can do. That doesn't mean everything goes well in health care. We see a lot of natural incidents, but what is starting to bother me is that very often with those incidents that are taken out, the picture is sketched as if it is a bit of a mess in Dutch care. If that were the case, we would not perform what we do. Look how many people are operated on daily without problems, how quickly they are back home, how quickly they are back on their feet, and if they are not, how neighborhood care is organized. I'm very proud, but that doesn't mean everything's going well. We must continue to work, every day, to see how we can make the weather a little better. As regards the dentist and the perception of whether it is a matter of an individual, a system or society, as with the own risk that this is not something the minister decides only randomly, in the sense that it goes one day that way and another day a different direction. We have a care facility. It used to be the Hospital Fund Council. Then this became the Health Insurance College. Now it's called: Zorginstituut Nederland. They have criteria. We used to call it Dunning's funnel, which once chaired a committee in this area. There are therefore criteria, on the basis of which it is said that this is collectively financed through basic insurance, or that people have to make sure of this themselves. Those advices go to the minister. The latter shall take a decision thereon. I am again controlled by the Chambers, by the Parliament. That's how we did it. It's not random, it's very schematic. Of course there may be discussions about it, in the vein of: is this really well judged? What I just wanted to say is that it is not an arbitrary decision that has been taken. Moreover, I consider the administrative burden to be an incredibly important issue. We are working in various areas. Before 1 April, with the paramedical sector and with the pharmaceutical sector, I want to achieve a significant reduction, but not so much in the books. We are doing very well in this respect, but people in the workplace do not notice that. It is precisely the people in the workplace who have to notice that there are fewer forms and checklists and that they can make agreements with each other again and can simply rely on each other's expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u30	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mr Don's family member that it seems reasonable to me not only to think in terms of what we are entitled to, but also in terms of what someone needs, how we can help and what person can pay for it. I think that's a reasonable question. I certainly don't want to say that everything is going well. In one of the debates I had to prepare, I once reread the report of a debate that took place in the Chamber in 2009. I can assure you that the number of points of discussion that we were wondering whether or not it was going well was certainly not smaller. There's a lot of development in it. Now let's take the difficult subject of nursing home care. Dozens of years ago, we talked about dormitories. They became multibed rooms and then single rooms, and now we're talking about it being living rooms. That is a very good debate. It means that we are now more dissatisfied with the way things are going and that we want to further improve quality. At the same time, we must bear in mind the development that has indeed taken place. The second question asked by Mr Don was when there was a social problem in smoking. I point out the difference between adults and children. I expect adults to be able to make their own choices. We do need to inform people, especially about the harmful effects of the lake smoking. We have therefore taken a number of measures to prevent this from happening to others. For our youth, I think we have a greater responsibility, because we want to prevent young people from becoming addicted. That is why we also want to make extra efforts in pregnancy and in schools, and they cannot be strong enough as far as I am concerned. I very much agree with Mr Don's views on the need to reduce administrative burdens. We will continue to work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u31	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-14.u32	Anybody want a note? Nor is that the case.
