ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The police will stop picking up, picking up, collecting and transporting confused people from January 1st. Imagine, a confused man standing in the middle of the crossroads screaming. He's a pretty solid person. No one knows what the situation is. Bystanders get scared, cars drive around. After January 1st, the police will no longer work in the Netherlands for this purpose. The deal is that the ggz does, but it lets us know not to be ready for that yet. In asking my questions, I am trying to get the Minister's commitment that in such a case as outlined as "or think of someone on the platform" or someone standing on the edge of the roof of a high-rise building, it is not the case that the police are not going there. I'd like to know about the Minister anyway. Of course, we think it is very good if there is a much more humane approach for confused people and if there is decent psychiatric care. So the police are not our preferred option, but I want the Minister to be clear today that it cannot be that nothing happens at all. GroenLinks wants the police to stay until the ggz is ready to take over in every village and in every city. According to GroenLinks this is simply not possible, because the current funding of mental health care leaves no room for permanently accessible and available teams who are sufficiently trained for this type of acute care. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Van Tongeren for her question. That gives me the opportunity to explain the comprehensive letter that we sent to the Chamber on 5 July. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. From the Minister of VWS, the Chamber received the interim report from the Chasing Team Confused Persons. He is primarily responsible for the care part of the problem of confused persons. I will often refer to VWS in my reply, because we are looking at this issue together in an integral way. So it's not just a matter of security and justice. The starting point of all the activities we have undertaken over the past 18 months in connection with the Hoekstra Committee's report is to ensure that confused persons are recognised in good time, are given proper care and do not end up in the place where Mrs Van Tongeren has just said so strikingly, namely in the middle of the street in utter confusion. It is, of course, intended that people are received early in an appropriate, non-stigmatic and non-traumatizing manner and, if necessary, transported. The Chasing Team Confused Persons has taken a number of important steps in the past year. One is that it is agreed that as of 1 January 2017 the reception of confused persons will in principle no longer take place in police cells. After all, they are not suitable for people who are confused at all. Those people need to go to an appropriate care environment. Transport must also be adapted to the needs of confused persons. On 5 July last. We informed the Chamber of that appointment. Obviously, the confused persons will not fall between shore and ship. There will be action as Mrs Van Tongeren proposes and as we have agreed. Where that transfer can take place, it will take place. In other cases, the police will, if necessary, prefer not to do so, but if there is no other way to do so, they will continue to play that role temporarily. The important thing is that we are working very well together with the whole chain to ensure that there is a transition that is in the interests of the confused persons themselves and that does justice to the needs of these people. They do not need a police cell or a police car; they need care, appropriate care and people trained to deal with them in a respectful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	With the ideal image presented by the Minister, GroenLinks agrees, but in the period from 2010 to now, the number of reports of confused persons has increased by 65%. It's 65,000 reports. We hear that the trained teams the Minister mentioned are not there and that the ggz institutions throughout the Netherlands do not have trained, outpatient teams with transport available 24 hours a day to pick up these people. Then that may be a nice wishful thinking, but then you can't say: as of January 1st we'll basically stop; see? I welcome the Minister's commitment that no confused person will remain on the streets in a situation that is vulnerable to him or herself or the environment. This means, in practice, that the police will continue to do so for a long time to come. The minister also said something about the training. I would like to know from the Minister who may use force or violence on the streets or handcuffs if necessary. What times are they allowed to do that? If the Minister thinks that this should also be done by the outpatient teams, all these teams in the Netherlands must be trained in such a way that they can actually take people off the streets in a very confused or psychotic situation. After all, we know that even the police, who are trained to do so, have the greatest possible difficulty from time to time in getting someone in such a condition whole and healthy and at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mrs Van Tongeren deals with this question in a number of areas outside my portfolio. The question is how the ggz prepares itself, especially under the direction of the municipalities, which are ultimately responsible for this and with which very good consultation takes place seamlessly. The example given by Mrs Van Tongeren concerns people who need handcuffs. Then the police may be the party that should. When it comes to people who are at risk to themselves or to their environment or to those who have committed a criminal offence, the police are of course in a position to do so. The point is that, on the basis of the consultations that are currently taking place between police, municipalities, care parties, ambulance services and health insurance providers, we must ensure that these people do not get to this point and that they do not get to that point in the street, which means that the police are not needed. The whole purpose of everything we have done so far for confused people, the approach I coordinate with Mr Schippers, is to ensure that people receive appropriate care in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	With the Minister's promise that the police will continue to pull out even after January if it is necessary to take these people off the streets, I am pleased. I would also like to have that other vision of the future, but there is not yet. I also welcome the fact that if there is an unexpected need for coercion or if someone has to be handcuffed to get them into a vehicle, then the police will remain active. I understand that this minister cannot say anything about training other people, but he does deal with public security and, among other things, the monopoly on the use of violence. If that is transferred to other teams, which are given the same powers, then I think the Minister is inclined to examine the conditions under which people can possibly dispose of someone by force or under duress. I would also like confirmation from the Minister that, in all these cases, the police remain available wherever necessary throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	I will repeat the starting point, because this is also reflected in all the interim reports and in the letter to the Chamber of 5 July. The starting point is that as of 1 January 2017 the reception will no longer take place in a police cell and that preferably the transport will no longer take place as soon as possible afterwards by police cars that are not suitable for transporting people who are confused, in psychosis and so on. That is the starting point. That's not because I don't want to, but because it's not sensible from the patient's point of view and because it shouldn't be the job of the police to do that job. Fortunately, there are also a lot of alternatives to this. The psycholance, which drives in Amsterdam, is a good example. Look at the shelter, too. I went to the Opvang Vervolgde Personen in The Hague last week. That is an extremely nice cooperation between the police, the ggz and a number of other partners, who really works well and is one of the examples for how it should be done. That's a really good example we're looking at together to roll that out in the country. The responsibility for this lies, of course, with the municipalities, as everyone knows. They are carefully supported by the successor of the chasing team to ensure that they are up to their task. Moreover, there is no undertaking that I am making today, as it is all in the letters that the Chamber has already received. I'm just gonna explain it to you one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think the Minister is giving a rather rosy picture of the letter received by the Chamber. That letter is merely an announcement that there will be a substantive response. That will be somewhere at the end of September, so we still have to talk about that. We don't know what the cabinet's like yet. In addition to the commitment that the Minister must make today, I would like to hear that he ensures that people do not fall between shore and ship, not only because they need care but also because they may pose a danger to others. If not, I would like to hear from the Minister that he will use the other capacity he may have at his disposal in the care setting to ensure that these people do not wander anywhere on the street and become a danger to himself and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think I have just said this literally in reply to Mrs Van Tongeren's question. The starting point is that there are no people on the streets, but that we ensure that people are taken care of by those who are meant for it, not by the police, but by the ggz, who specialises in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	I would very much like to stress that we are talking about people who are very seriously ill. I didn't hear that from the Minister. I say that in general, but there are also a lot of other possibilities. I heard the Minister say very clearly that no one is going to fall between ship and ship. I'm really gonna hold him to that. I am counting on the Minister, together with his colleague Mr Schippers, to do everything in his power to ensure that this is done, and to include some good examples of the transport of ggz patients, for example in Arnhem. I would ask the Minister to take a good look at that and really live up to his word that no one will fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	That was exactly the starting point of the hunting team we set up a year ago. This has done an excellent job and has looked at all these examples, not only at the reception in Arnhem but also in Amsterdam, The Hague and many other good examples in the country. Mr Schippers and I, Mr Schippers, are aware that it is very important for people to be treated in accordance with their needs, not as criminals but as patients, because of the responsibility for the ggz and myself because of the part of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	I think we all agree that care should be appropriate and that people should not fall between ship and ship, but my big question is how this cabinet is going to take care of that, because this mental health care has already suffered blows in recent years, with fewer and fewer budgets and the enormous extramuralisation. How, then, does this cabinet intend to ensure that mental health care can do this extra job well without compromising other tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	We have received two interim reports from the recruitment team with recommendations to the Empire, the municipalities and cooperation partners. The chasing team has defined nine building blocks that should have a closing approach and has defined perspectives from which everyone should work: the integrated person-oriented approach, a clear direction and a clear ownership, with prevention and early warning at the centre, and a transition from system to living world. Six floor regions were then installed to test and disseminate best practices. That is the answer to Mrs Voortman's question. The questions on the ggz can, of course, be discussed with my colleague Mr Schippers at the appropriate moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	The Minister is now reading from the report of the chasing team, but the point is that this is an integral opinion. There a piece is taken out and the total picture is not looked at. My question was how the cabinet is going to make that care better. You can't say we're pulling the cops out and we're not quite in order at the ggz yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	I think that is exactly what I have said: it is important that this is looked at in full. That is why Mr Schippers and I are jointly responsible for this issue. My direct responsibility is only the final piece. In the Chamber, with the hunting team and in the Hoekstra Committee's report, we have all noted that we have been looking at the final piece for far too long and that we need to look at the front. That's what the whole hunting team is based on. This is worked out together with the municipalities along the lines I have just shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	We all agree that confused people need care and not a police cell. The Minister makes it very clear that there must be a transitional period and a transfer. How can the Minister be sure that this transfer is going well and that the police can actually hand over its current task, which they wish to reject? When, according to the Minister, is the release of this task sufficiently safe by the police? I am referring, of course, to the importance of the confused people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	I think Mrs Bergkamp describes it very well: that is when the importance of confused people is sufficiently served by the arrangement that exists. This may have to be looked at from municipality to municipality, but it is now very important that we establish with each other that we really want to achieve this and that we really think it is important that patients are treated like patients and not as criminals. That is the starting point of the agreements we have made with all those parties in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	In 2012, the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice Fred Teeven said that you see it in justice when it is protected in public health. What did this cabinet do? Less places in mental health care, the outpatient care or home care for psychiatric patients with a huge discount to the municipalities and shorter treatments, because the health insurance companies want that. Does the Minister recognise that this policy leads to more confused people on the streets, huge costs and a great deal of social suffering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	It's not for me to judge that. I think it would be wise for Mrs Leijten to discuss this with Mr Schippers of VWS. There will undoubtedly be an opportunity to do so during the budget debate. I don't recognize myself in the sketch. I know, however, that we have looked carefully at the problem of the confused people over the last year and that we realise that we are really catching up on this point. We'll make it, too. We do that integrally, with all parties. I also think that we are doing very well. Everyone's working very hard on that. That is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mrs Leijten, you have the floor to correct something, not to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	I'm not asking a follow-up question. I note that for a minister who says he wants to look at it in its entirety, there is a lot of referrals to Minister Schippers of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	In response to this, I can say that "integral view" does not mean that you will then assume the responsibility of a fellow trade minister, but that you will look at it together with that fellow trade minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	The Minister shouldn't respond to everything. It was a point of order from Mrs Leijten. She wanted to make a comment. She was allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	I have heard the Minister say: the starting point is that the police will stop these activities, namely the reception, removal and reception of confused persons, from 1 January 2017. I couldn't agree more. I also hear the Minister say: but if it is not quite in order, then the police will continue it temporarily. My question is: is there a "temporary" deadline? Otherwise it will be a safety net again, and we have to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	I don't have that deadline. I assume that we will discuss this with each other in the coming months. It's important that we approach this from the patient's point of view. The patient does indeed need that, as several Members of Parliament have said, he does not fall apart. The police also see a responsibility for themselves in that regard. The agreement is, however, that we must ensure that the reception and transport are carried out as quickly as possible in a way that is of interest to patients, and that is not a police car or a police cell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u27	Three days after the Cat housebreak, the Kunduz agreement was concluded by the CDA, the VVD, GroenLinks, the Christian Union and D66. They decided to technically extramuralize zzp 1 to 3, which closed not only the nursing homes but also the psychiatric institutions for the lower indications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u28	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u29	My question to the Minister is: does he miss those institutions? Does he think that the institutions for confused people should come back so that these people can catch their breath?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-5.u30	With the policy we are pursuing on the basis of the division of responsibility that we now have, the municipalities are primarily committed to doing so, we are taking the right measures to deal with the problems of the confused people, also while preserving the interests of the patients themselves, trying as much as possible to enable people to function as independently as possible in society. That is wise in itself. We are dealing only with a difficult problem and for that reason we are flying it almost completely. We will continue to inform the Chamber seamlessly and accurately about this.
