ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, as well as the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the last week a gay couple was bullied away from his own home in Amsterdam. That is absolutely unacceptable in our country and in our capital. You have to be able to be visible yourself, because if you can't be there already, where can you be? In the same week, the Minister decided to continue the subsidy to an organization with very questionable intentions in terms of acceptance and emancipation. Last month, the Minister called upon the reformatorial organization Hart van Homo's with strong words, because this organization encourages sexual abstinence in a series of lessons. In its vision document, the organisation states that men and women are not made for homosexuality. In that same document, she calls on people not to engage in a sexual relationship with someone. Today we read that the minister has turned, because the organisation has made it clear that she does not want to impose a standard on others. I wonder if she can preach this for her own parish. What exactly did the Minister hear that changed her mind? The national umbrella organisation for the Christian lhbt movement distances itself from this organization. For my group, it is quite incomprehensible that a minister of emancipation should grant a subsidy to an organisation that denies a fundamental part of being gay, or rather simply being human, namely sexuality. Is it acceptable for this minister to grant a subsidy to an organisation that recommends that people refrain from sexuality for a lifetime, with all the consequences for the happiness that comes with it? That is completely unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is also unacceptable for me to grant subsidies to an institution that calls on all people to be celibate. I think it's very important that everyone can live their lives the way they want. That certainly applies to lhbt'ers and therefore also to gays. That means we have to do everything we can to stop people being bullied away from a neighborhood. We must do everything we can to make facilities accessible, for example to transgenders. In that context, yesterday, I opened the first gender-neutral toilet in the government. In all communities in the Netherlands homosexuality must be negotiable. We know from research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau that this is very difficult in bicultural communities and in Orthodox-Christian communities. Now there is one organization that develops teaching material to make homosexuality negotiable in those orthodox-Christian communities as well. I want to support them. I do that not because they would argue for celibacy or because they would encourage sexual abstinence, but because they have indicated that they want to help schools with teaching material to make homosexuality negotiable. I've had a conversation with them and their website has changed as well. They want to help young people achieve self-acceptance, but it is then up to the individual, the young people to decide how they want to live their lives. That is essential, as far as I am concerned. I can say that I would prefer to do it from my own standards, my own personal standards which are perhaps very close to Mrs Dijkstra's, but I suspect that she and I will not just enter that school. I suspect that the teaching material we would make would not be used there at all. I think it is crucial that also in these Christian Orthodox and Reformative schools children learn about sexual diversity. I also think it is crucial that when young people discover that they are gay, lesbian or whatever, that is negotiable and they do not have to choose for a life or without sexuality or without religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	I stress that I also think it is very important that the issue of homosexuality should be discussed in Christian circles and that it should also be discussed at strictly reformative schools. There is no doubt about that. However, I find it difficult for the Minister to say that schools make that negotiable, but they have consequences. That's up to whoever it's about. And the website would have changed. Yeah, if you see the first page, that's the case. The sentence that, when it comes to sexuality, it's only about love between man and woman has been taken off. But the whole vision document behind it is exactly the same. It assumes that only men and women are involved when it comes to entering into a sexual relationship. That's why it says: That's why we believe that God calls on us gays who want to follow Jesus in the first place not to engage in sexual relations with someone of the same sex. However, I would like to know from the Minister how it can be that she considers it acceptable that this message should make homosexuality negotiable. What's Hart van Homo's gonna do with the class series? Is it gonna be modified? After all, the vision document has not been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	I had a conversation with the Hart van Homo's organization. In that conversation, she clarified her vision. Consequently, the wording on its website has also been modified. It now reads: "We want to provide information and support young people who are looking for a way to deal with their homosexuality. It's about asking like, "Who am I?', "How can I be myself?', "Who is God to me?'." We are talking about young people who grow up in a strict Orthodox community and who have to struggle with their religion on the one hand and their sexual identity on the other. As far as I am concerned, it cannot follow from that that there is only one way to deal with it, although I know from the organisation that there are many young people who think that celibacy is sometimes best. It would be wrong if the organisation were to promote this as the only solution. It is important that schools work on sexual diversity and that there is teaching material that is also accepted as useful in that circle. That's what Hart van Homo's does. Each individual then decides for himself how he or she organises his or her life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	That's exactly the problem. They don't leave room for that. I would like to draw your attention to the vision document. The Minister says it's been modified. Yes, the message on the home page has been modified, but the whole vision document is on it. It's okay with me that people in Christian circles feel that way. I don't have anything else to do with that either. But the question is: do you have to grant government subsidies to deliver this message? It is fine if it is made negotiable, but if then the only conclusion can be that there can be no sexual relationship, then, as far as I am concerned, no public money should go there. I would like to hear what has changed in the manner of teaching in these schools for the general discussion of the Minister's emancipation, with this teaching material which makes it justified for public subsidies to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	I have discussed with the organization that I do not think it would be desirable for them to place one way of living or dealing with sexuality above the other. I don't want to come into the bedroom with anyone. I believe that people should make their own choices. That's what I'm judging the organization for. I know she's developing teaching materials now. My associates and I are also talking about that teaching material, so we can see that. I do not know how much of this we have seen before the general consultation in mid-September, but I am always willing to inform the Chamber of next steps. I would add that either you choose teaching material that might not be in accordance with Mrs Dijkstra's or myself's individual standard or there is no teaching material for these schools at all. Then I choose to do so even if it is not my belief, but why should everyone follow my beliefs exactly? In any case, to ensure that young people are given the information in schools to deal with homosexuality properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	The Minister grants €135.000 to a foundation that found one yesterday, finds something different today after a discussion and perhaps takes a third position tomorrow. The great losers in this story are the orthodox-Christian lhbt-young people who depend on this kind of half-hearted organizations for their help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	I really don't agree with that. I think that young people in these communities and in these schools are very, very much in need of people from their own community who, from the framework within which these schools are thought, can approach young people to discuss with them what it means to discover from your faith that you are gay. You and I, who are we to say that we can all do better? I can judge organizations if they're doing what they've agreed to do with me. That's what I do with all the organizations. I do this not only with Hart van Homo's, but also with the collaboration of Christian lhbt organizations. There are several of them. I don't judge them by their differences in religion. I judge them by the way they deal with promoting self-acceptance on an individual level, so that the group standard never sets the standard for the individual. I think lht's people in these communities are better off with that than when no one would ever come to their school and there would never be any teaching material about this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	When the Labour Party made a plea for homosexual rights ambassadors, on its own behalf, they were experienced experts, people who could engage in discussions about homosexuality in such a community and with the community. It wasn't about organizations that make it discussable, but as their main message, according to the Bible, you're not supposed to be gay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	My question is to what extent the Minister is sure that the way in which she makes this possible also contributes to individual freedom of choice and freedom of conscience. If the main message is that the Bible does not intend to do so, then I do not think that we should subsidise it with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	That interruption lasted almost one minute, Mrs. Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	I agree with Mrs. Yücel. This is about promoting self-acceptance. Experience experts can really help with that. I've also spoken to some of them. That is not because they have to convey their message that according to the Bible or any book homosexuality should not be or should not be polite, but rather to tell how they have dealt with their situation and perhaps in that sense can be an example for other young people. Teaching material is one thing, but I absolutely aim for experience experts, both in Orthodox-Christian circles and in bicultural circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	I find the Minister's story unclear. That is why I have one specific question. Did Hart van Homo's now distance himself from saying that you can be gay and not be gay? When you read their visionary piece, there is a very clear call to not engage in sexual relations with someone of the same sex. If the minister can't answer that question, the government is funding an organization that says you can be gay, but you can't be gay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	In the conversations and in the documents I have seen, the organisation said very emphatically that it wants to provide information and support to young people who are looking for a way to deal with their homosexuality. In the religious community, relatively many young people may say that celibacy could be a solution, and perhaps this is why the organisation thought it would be good to find a point of reference there. But that doesn't mean I think that's an acceptable starting point. For me, engaging in the conversation and making sure that it is discussed in that community without recording how a person should live his life is the only thing acceptable. I do not want anyone to decide how someone else should experience their sexuality, and I hope that Mrs Bergkamp agrees with me. That is no different for this group than for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs Bergkamp has a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	I actually want to make a point of order. I asked the Minister a specific question, but she did not answer it. Has this organisation distanced itself from the vision that is still on its website? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u19	I do not consider this to be a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u20	I answered Mrs van Miltenburg's written questions last night, and I indicated in my mind that the text on the website has also been amended. I just read that text when I quoted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u21	I notice that orthodox-protected, reformatarian schools are being put back into some kind of suspect bank in terms of homoacceptance. I think that a lot of schools in the Netherlands, perhaps even all of them, should go to those schools to see how they make sexual diversity discussable. Does the Minister agree with me that when we talk about sexual diversity, it is not just about different modes, but also about the consequences and the form that one wants to give them in practice? Organisations that indicate that celibacy can be considered are talking about a legitimate aspect of sexual diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u22	I agree that sexual diversity should be discussed at every school. This is also a key objective of education. It must be discussed in such a way that every young person can ultimately make his or her own choice about how he or she deals with the sexual identity he or she develops. Again: I don't care what it looks like, heterosexual, homosexual or sm. I don't know any of it, and I don't want to know any of it. I do not want to express a preference for any option. I will therefore not ask for this from a public or reformatory school. That's where I'm really at. It is a question of discussing this, but it is not a question of imposing choices on young people or anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u23	It is important that young people get help and support in a struggle they experience in a difficult phase of their lives, especially in the Orthodox-Christian corner. I think this discussion is mainly about whether you can deal with people who think differently. The Minister shows that she is tolerant to people who think differently, even though they may also offer options where you may not be able to imagine something directly. I congratulate the Minister for her tolerant and open-minded attitude. I would also ask Mrs Dijkstra to join me in talking to the club. I've already talked to it myself. It's good to hear from those people themselves what they stand for instead of relying on reports from the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mrs Dijkstra has heard this call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u25	It's nice if you're tolerant of people who look at homosexuality differently, but the question is, of course, whether this organization hasn't long crossed the border that the minister himself has indicated. Isn't it basically that this organization backs off a little, because it wants to keep the grant money, but then just continues to spread its own message? This organisation is very clear in its view that homosexuality should not be actively implemented. The minister indicated that this goes beyond the border, after which the organization backed off, but then just goes back to its own business. Does the Minister even trust that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u26	Suppose an organization says: we want to talk about homosexuality, but we say directly that no one should practice homosexuality. That's a border for me. But if an organization talks constructively with me, if it is willing to clarify things for its constituents and then says that it is developing teaching material to make homosexuality discussable and that it wants to support self-acceptance, whatever choice young people make, then I am glad that information is also possible in these schools. On that basis, on the basis of the conversation I had myself and on the basis of the teaching material being developed, I will look at some things. I am keeping my finger on the wrist, and I think this is a contribution for a certain group. It's not my standards being told there. I'd do it differently. I can preach what I find, but I don't think it's heard in those schools. I hope that this teaching material will find a favourable hearing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr Grashoff, you have a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u28	Does the Minister agree with me that, at the time when this organisation is still showing a view on homosexuality, in which people are not forced so much but feel compelled to make one choice, the subsidy should be withdrawn on a case-by-case basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u29	It would be very undesirable for her to impose one choice, especially if that choice were to be that you may be, but that you should not do anything else with it. That doesn't fit my view of free dealing with homosexuality and lhbt. This organization is now developing only teaching material. This has yet to be accepted before teaching about it in schools. I think that's an even bigger challenge. I sincerely hope that the organisation will manage to discuss sexual diversity in an open way with the schools, including Orthodox Christian schools.
