ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. There's a difficult relationship between mining damage and just paying for that damage. At first there was no descent in Groningen, then a bit, but that should not cause any damage. Gas extraction didn't give earthquakes. Afterwards they knew for sure that it would remain with small finches that did not cause any damage. Until the great earthquake in Huizinge in 2012. Now we see this same pattern in Drenthe, depicted by EenVandaag. First, there's nothing to worry about. A report by Witteveen+Bos, in which three independent geologists have all sorts of questions, would undoubtedly state that there is no relationship between the damage and the mining activities in the area. The damage cases are quite coincidentally located exactly in a circle around the epicentre of earlier tremors. How can you say beyond doubt that there would be no connection? Would these damage cases all have been caused by trucks, moles or overdue maintenance on the foundations and then lie in such a pattern? You'll just live in Emmen or in another place in Drenthe and on TV see how the Groningers got along. In order to maintain confidence in the government, it is now necessary not to work with self-made categories of A-, B- and C-damage, that not some form of contour map is rigged, but that we simply look at what the Dutch judge has said in the highest instance. There is existing case law in the Netherlands and the case law says that anyone who has to tolerate a dangerous activity must in all cases be compensated for the damage. It's not like that person has to prove again that it wasn't him. From the Minister I want to know whether there will be independent research and whether he will monitor in Drenthe, preferably with tilt meters, what the soil there does about movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	Madam President. In Emmen, about 40 gas extraction has been going on. The first quake occurred there 25 years ago with a force of 2.2 on the Richter scale. The last quake took place in September of this year with a force of 2.3 on the Richter scale. In total, there have been 11 tremors in those 25 years. All the others were lighter than the two I just mentioned. Some of them couldn't be felt. The quakes in Emmen or wherever in the country are the same as quakes in Groningen, namely that if someone has damage and thinks that this damage is caused by natural gas extraction, he can report it to the NAM. The NAM then ensures that an independent expert takes up the damage and gives an opinion on it. The NAM then takes a decision. Then the damage can be paid out. The damage shall not be paid if it appears that the damage is not related to the earthquake. Of course, it is possible that the detector does not agree with that. Then he can go to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement (Tcbb). There are a number of experts ready to re-examine the matter completely: what about the claim; what happened; is there damage and, if so, what caused the damage? If there is a ruling from the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, then the NAM always follows that statement. This means that if the Technical Committee on Soil Movement says that it is a matter of natural gas extraction, the damage will be compensated. If, despite this careful procedure, the reporter is not satisfied with the outcome, he can always go to court and then the judge will give a ruling. I do not know exactly what is dedicated to investigations by the NAM, for example to Witteveen+Bos. That's not up to me either. The NAM has its own responsibility. If she's having an investigation done by a renowned agency, it certainly wouldn't hurt. In this case, now that there has been publicity, it does not seem to me to be unwise, even in view of the history that has been partly outlined by Mrs Van Tongeren, that I ask the Technical Committee on Soil Movement to request that report and then to examine whether it has any comments on that report which could be useful in dealing with any further complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	I welcome the Minister's commitment to ask the Technical Committee on Soil Movement to look again at the report by Witteveen+Bos. That's a good first step. My second question was whether the Minister is prepared to monitor the soil movement in Drenthe properly. The minister says that there may have been tremors that can't be felt, but as all spokesmen in the earthquake file can now drown in their sleep, a quake that can't be felt by a person still has an impact on the buildings. Ten times a very small bit of shaking on a wall also has effect, just like once pushing very firmly against it. Is the Minister prepared to check with the NAM if there is better monitoring? Thirdly, I ask the Minister, instead of going back to work with a self-invented system of A, B and C damages and a self-defeated contour map, simply the case law of the 1920 Supreme Court, which is relevant in all legal cases so far, there have been rulings in 1980 on that basis. It therefore states that the burden of proof should in all cases, including in Drenthe, lie with the NAM and not with the resident. He also says that the person who has to tolerate the risky activity is not the one who has to prove that the damage was caused by the mining company. I would like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	First of all, I'm here to monitor. We have natural gas extraction in this country in dozens of places. At the moment, I cannot judge whether there is any particular reason to do anything other than in other places in Emmen, one of the places where natural gas is extracted. I will see how this relates and whether there are any reasons for doing what Mrs Van Tongeren is asking. That is the answer that remains to be found. As for the A-, B- and C-damages, it's all not that complicated. If there's a damage report, you should take it off. Sometimes you can see that this damage is caused by the natural gas extraction that takes place in the environment, but sometimes you can also find that this is not the case. In the latter case, you can call it C-damage, but none of that is so relevant. The only thing relevant is whether the damage was caused by natural gas extraction. If that is the case, a fee is necessary in all cases. Then it is not so important at all which statements have been or have not been made. If the damage is caused by natural gas extraction, that damage should be compensated. This applies to the whole country, including the Emmen area. Every time a report comes up, it's looked at. Should there be disagreement about the outcome, a number of steps can be taken to achieve a good outcome. Mr President, this is my response to the points raised by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	I welcome the two commitments made by the Minister. On the other point: the Supreme Court says that a causal link is assumed when a risky activity takes place. This means that you do not first have to prove that the damage to a wall necessarily has a causal link to the gas extraction. It's the other way around. That is why I ask again whether we are following the ruling of the Supreme Court. Or does the NAM, just like in Groningen, come up with a self-made book with photos of what she rightly finds damage and is it followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	A form of reversal of the burden of proof is regulated for the gas extraction area of Groningen. This doesn't apply to the whole country. For the rest of the country: if there is damage related to natural gas extraction, the person who extracted the natural gas shall compensate for that damage. That's usually the NAM, but there are other companies as well. I think this is a clear system that does justice to the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr Van Tongeren has asked very legitimate questions. The CDA has already asked for one point of contact where as a resident in the rest of the Netherlands, i.e. outside Groningen, you can go if you suffer from mining activities and damage as a result. The Minister has promised, also to the CDA, to come up with that one window. How's that window coming? Are people also entitled to a second opinion, as is the case in Groningen? Suppose you disagree with the Tcbb's ruling and see it quite differently, can you still get an independent second opinion before you go to court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think that in the case of Emmen, a proper plan has been put in place. That set-up involves the following. Any damage report will send someone from an independent agency. The expert shall examine the damage and give an opinion on it. If that damage is caused by natural gas extraction, that damage will be compensated. If it is considered that this is not the case and therefore the damage is not reimbursed, the person concerned may call on the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. This one has experts in the house who then look at it and come up with an opinion. If you disagree, then there is a third step possible, namely that you should go to court. I think this is an appropriate way of working for the situation in Emmen, as it is for the situation in other parts of the country outside Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u10	I get the impression that Witteveen+Bos has barely followed the discussion we had about Groningen. Here again, the situation is that the epicentre is linked to distance, leading to a lack of evidence that damage is related to the tremor. That's what you've got here. It seems to me that we should not repeat that. It's a renowned company. I understand that; so is Arcadis. However, it seems a bit like these companies disappear in the right pocket and in the left pocket in the case of the NAM. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. We rebuilt the Mining Act. Almost Chamberwide, an amendment was adopted on an independent scientific programme with international experts...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u11	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yesterday in One-Today they spoke out. Once this law has been passed by the Supreme Court, can they be asked to look at this report and, hopefully, make a more expert judgement on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think that with the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, we have brought together a number of experts and experts who focus on these matters and specialise in them. If there is disagreement, they can come up with an independent second opinion. I think that we have done an excellent job and that there is no need to organise something else for that now. If we have organized it properly, we can also stick to it. Witteveen+Bos is a renowned agency, as is Arcadis. That doesn't mean we accept everything that comes from them as a fact. That is why in the case of Arcadis in Groningen a second opinion was requested from Deltares. Now, in this case, I think it is wise to have the Technical Committee on Soil Movement look at what Witteveen+Bos has brought to the NAM. All these reports are interesting, but the point is that I think that the damage should be compensated every time someone suffers damage from natural gas extraction. I am ensuring that the whole system is focused on doing justice to all those damages. If the damage is caused by natural gas extraction, compensation must be paid quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u14	A question has been left by Mrs Mulder. You may very briefly repeat the question, Mrs Mulder, but you cannot ask a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was about that one window where residents living outside Groningen can go, but suffer from mining damage. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u16	I have two answers to that. If you have damage caused by natural gas extraction, whether it is natural gas extraction by Vermillion, natural gas extraction by Tulip Oil or natural gas extraction by the NAM, you have to go to the person who extracted that natural gas and thus could have caused the damage. For cases of doubt or for cases where there is an urgent need for action, we have a window for mining damage in place. This window will be operational at the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
