ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the ruler and the members. We've already had the first term of office. Today, we will continue with the answer given by the Minister in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I make a number of preliminary remarks and then split my input into three parts: all questions relating to appointments, all questions relating to supervision and all questions relating to participation. The last issue is perhaps the bulk of my answer. I am not going to repeat what I wrote in the letter on all the amendments. Maybe I'll say a few words about it once in a while. I assume that Members will question me if the explanations of the amendments were unclear. First of all, I congratulate Mr Bruins. It's been a week since he made his maiden speech, maybe he's already made a regular speech, but it was nice to be there. It was an involved story about what education can do and how education should be organised, namely as a community in which everyone matters. After all, you make good education with each other. These are teachers, janitors, lecturers, professors, administrators and, not to mention, students and students, who must also have a role in participation. That is what we are talking about today in a more formal sense when it comes to governance and how we have dealt with the division of tasks and responsibilities of all those involved in our education system. Education is at its best if each can play a powerful role and fulfil his or her tasks. In her report, the Meurs Committee made a very clear reference to this. Every student, student, teacher, parent, school leader, director and supervisor deserves to come to their senses in the education system, in every sector. Not everything needs to be regulated in the same way for every sector of education. When we look back on a bit longer ago, we see that the search for the right interpretation of roles is characterized by lively discussions, especially when it comes to higher education. I note, therefore, that the contributions of Members and most of the amendments relate to higher education. All I have to do is refer to the 1960s and the events at the Catholic University of Tilburg, the University of Nijmegen and the Maagdenhuis and the sharp ideological protest that was based on this against the distance between government and student. The result was participation by steering. In the 1990s the pendulum went the other way because it was found that this model was not very effective. I would like to make it quite clear that this observation was not only made by ministers and directors at the time. For example, the National Student Union (LSVb) and the Interurban Student Consultation (ISO) wrote in 1996: "The lack of a clear point of contact and a clear allocation of responsibility make it more difficult for students to address their institutions on the quality of education." The reaction to this, at the end of the 1990s, has given us a clear division of roles. This led to a focus on accountability and professionalisation. This is also about the relationship between trust and mistrust, as Mr Van Meenen said strikingly in his speech. This concerns the educational community concerned, in which all parties work together to ensure a good future of education, as Mr Rog and Mr Van Dijk said, and not just top-down work is being done. Education culture is an important pillar in this respect, not just the structure. For some, the pendulum seems to have gone a little too far in the 1990s. For example, we have seen that there are wishes, including in the Chamber, to correct participation in higher education in some respects, especially for students. I am thinking here of our discussions about the occupation of the Virgin House in 2015. I have referred to the widespread discontent as a desire for more opposition, in order to improve democratisation in the educational institutions. In case of contradiction, sound and sound internal accountability must be ensured. So this is not just a question of contradicting, but also a question of accountability. I'm glad to hear that Mr Mohandis doesn't want to go back to the WUB. I have heard Mr Duisenberg say that we need to look closely at the current system and the various proposals. In my opinion, that is the lesson to be learned from the episodes I mentioned: the wisdom to find each other in the middle, with the need for clear roles from the 1990s and the need for a balance in the sixties and present roles. So we get a strong voice for every interested party, actually in a continuous but rolling conversation. These are important elements, which I have also taken into account when assessing the amendments tabled by Members of Parliament. Where are we now? The current governance model ensures that the government sets clear frameworks for achieving societal goals, that professionals within the institutions can make decisions about education process, staff and organisation and that they account for them. Unfortunately, things aren't always going well. Over the past few years, we have had intensive discussions about, for example, Inholland, Amarantis, Ibn Ghaldoun and, more recently, ROC Leiden. This shows that the education sector must always take a critical look at its administrative culture. At the institutions mentioned just now, the distance between management and the workplace was too great. As Mr Bruins rightly pointed out in his speech, this is certainly not always the case in practice. I wholeheartedly agree with him. In numerous situations, a majority of them, the dialogue between governance, participation and all other parts of education takes place in a very good way. As "A difficult conversation," the report of the Halsema Committee, and the more recent report of the Meurs Committee show, this starts with the right people in the right place in governance and supervision, and with people who are steady and willing to exchange views with others. In particular, directors and supervisors should have the necessary knowledge, skills and attitudes. Drivers, supervisors and co-determination must also form a community in which a culture can exist in which ideas can be shared openly, jointly and, as Mr Bishop stressed, on the basis of respect for one another. According to the Halsema and Meurs committee, this also means that critical questions are asked from your own role to both yourself and other parties. I say here: we are not there with structure alone; it is about the right relationship between structure and culture. I shall come back to that later on. I have just referred to the history of the somewhat longer term, but in recent times we have also discussed intensively the question of participation, particularly in higher education, and also the right of assent on the main lines of the budget, the study advance and the strengthened right of initiative. Following the occupation of the Maagdenhuis last spring, we discussed extensively the participation of students and teachers. Motions have also been tabled, such as those tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog and those tabled by Mr Mohandis and others. on the strengthening of the role of training committees. In last December's debate on ROC Leiden, I undertook, at the request of Mr Van Meenen, among others, to develop the right of assent for participation on the broad lines of the budget in the MBO. Through the Rog/Van Dijk motion, the Chamber requested an investigation into the role of advisors in the decision-making of the ROC Leiden directors. Furthermore, I have promised to look at the possibilities of liability of former drivers of ROC Leiden. More recently, following an own-initiative paper by Mr Van Dijk, we have talked widely about the governance of universities. And as if that is not enough, we have also talked about the initiative bill proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen, which regulates a pure role for the external supervisor. If I'm correct, it's now being processed in the First Chamber. All these activities aim at ultimately optimising the functioning of the checks-and-balances in education and preventing new incidents. The discussion of this bill today is therefore, as far as I am concerned, an important moment. The results of the previous discussions we have had with each other come together here. I continue to stress that the search for and working on a good governance culture is a permanent process. I am confident that the search for the right balance of roles in education, the ten points of the bill, are steps in the right direction. Of course, I'm always open to suggestions. I must say that I very much appreciate the great involvement of the Chamber in this bill and in all the other debates I have just mentioned. This has led to 31 amendments. I see there's an end to me that there's more, 36 or even 41. I have been modest, because I have not counted all the amendments that have been amended twice. If you do, you'll come to 42, including this morning's amendment. Anyway, there's a lot of them. They show a very great commitment and, I must say, also a great variety. There are amendments that are very similar and there are amendments that are almost mutually exclusive or directly opposed. I hope that this debate will also enable us to see whether we are going to be able to bring together the parliamentary groups among ourselves and the Chamber and I on a number of these points. I sincerely believe that there are several amendments that can really improve the legislative proposal. This applies to topics such as administrative appointments, powers of participation, training committees, student assessors and supervision. In short, there are many possibilities for further improvement of the proposal, while at the same time creating broad support in the Chamber and in society, because I am very committed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	I understand this was the end of the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have a question about the point which the Minister himself has already raised. The 1990s were important for the current legislation on participation and governance. I'm talking about the law on modernisation of university administration, the law on MUB. Does the Minister see today's debate and all the other debates and proposals that she has seen coming along in recent times as a correction to the legislation that was made in the 1990s? I believe that at that time it went too far towards directors and too little towards participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	I just talked about the pendulum. In the 1990s we found that the swing of participation from the 1960s had gone too far. A correction was made in the 1990s. It is not the first time that we have seen that corrective mechanisms are desirable in order to further shape participation. That is not new, because with the law strengthening control of one of my predecessors, Minister Plasterk, a number of corrections have already been made, for example, that participation is given a strengthened right of initiative, that there is at least twice a year consultation with the Supervisory Board for Higher Education and that there is a right of advice on policy regarding institution tuition fees. In short, I think that all these signals, including those from the legislative proposal of the initiators Bishop, Rog and Van Meenen, I think it was in that order, but I hear that this is not the case, but that does not matter to show that corrections are desirable. I just don't think I'm going as far as Mr Van Dijk. I remember the debate on his own initiative paper. It's not supposed to go back to the sixties or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	I didn't expect that last one. That would be very surprising, but that moving insight will come. For historiography, it is important to note here that the erosion of participation in the 1990s, for example by the MUB, Mr Ritzen's law, a minister's predecessor, gave too little rights to students and teachers. We are now, each in our own way, taking steps to correct this. I hope that the Chamber will take very big steps today. The Minister will be in a different position, but I am optimistic for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	Those are the words of Mr Van Dijk. I'd choose other words myself. It is precisely because we are working on education day in and day out that I hope we will continue to want to learn from practice. I hope that Mr Van Dijk will do this with me. That is why I say that we have noted in recent times that it is desirable to make some corrections. That's a continuous process. In 2010 we have already submitted a legislative proposal for this. That's what we're doing now. I hope that you will do that with me, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, not only by advocating structural changes, but also, above all, by improving education day by day and thus optimising the culture within the institutions in order to get and keep the right conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	I would like to ask a question about one of the Minister's first sentences. It was said that it wanted to take account of the differences between education sectors in the treatment of this law and in this debate on participation. That doesn't sound good to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	I haven't asked a question yet, Mr. Chairman. It sounds like there should be different rights for participation bodies. Perhaps the Minister could explain the differences she wishes to take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's not about more or less at all. No, it is primarily a question of different education sectors. It is not for nothing that most of the debate and the amendments tabled by the Chamber concentrate on higher education. That is where participation is most advanced. You can also expect students to be able to think independently about the design of educational programmes. In primary school, that's a whole different story. Parents play a very important role there and the boards are organized differently. You have to take that into account. You should not want to apply one model to all sectors. This could work less well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	I don't understand any of that. I do understand that students are active in higher education and teachers in primary education. But I wonder...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	Fortunately, teachers are also active in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	I meant the parents in primary school; I'm sorry. The Minister rightly pointed out the difference between parents and students; I understand that. However, I do not understand the difference in participation that this should lead to. In response to a number of amendments, the Minister says that we have granted a number of rights in higher education, and we should not do that in primary and secondary education; there is actually a good right of advice. That is why I think she speaks that sentence, but I simply do not understand that sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	I really don't mean it like that. Let's see how things are organized. The WHW is really different from the laws on primary and secondary education. Think of the training committees in higher education. We don't have one in the MBO, and we don't have one in the Vo. Higher education has different forms of participation, with combined or separate participation. In the MBO legislation, we split it through a works council and a council of participants. In the vo it is arranged with a student council. In short, the legislation differs in different sectors, the participants differ and the type of education is different. That is what participation must be aimed at. However, as a general line, I share the view that it is desirable to optimise participation in all sectors of education. That's what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	In her introduction, the Minister gave a rather central role to the concept of "rolling resistance." I agree with her in the main. The question is whether we have a good definition of those roles, so that the resistance to roll can be assessed. It almost seems that there is an implicit vision of the role of the administration. The board, therefore, is and must also be accountable to it; such terms are used. I couldn't agree more. However, the Minister's story lacks the definition of the role of participation. I would like to invite the Minister here to clarify what she thinks is the role of this participation. I suppose it goes beyond a little bit of talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think "a little bit of talking" sounds rather derogatory. In my introduction I made a very specific reference to the title 'A difficult discussion' of the report by the Halsema Committee. The role of participation is thus well represented. It's not just listening, it's serious talk about design and content. There is, however, a clear division of responsibility, whereby participation takes the experiences of users, such as students and students, and of staff members, teachers and other employees, to the discussion. However, participation should not take over the role of the Supervisory Board in the case of appointments. Participation must therefore have a full role. This should consist mainly of providing counter-force and collecting experience on how an institution's policy ends up in the workplace. Participation has an advisory or co-decision-making role, depending on the aspect of such decision-making. Many amendments have been tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	I am glad that the Minister says that this role of participation must be serious. The word "co-control" already contains an element of control. Does the Minister agree with me that it can be no different than that participation has real teeth in decisions on the most crucial things? So that could also apply to the question of who exactly sits on the driver's seat. Is there trust, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	Participation must have an important role in this, but control is something other than decision-making. I had just arrived at the 'appointments' block, and that is what this question is really about. Where does the control of participation end when appointing directors? It is not only very important that directors are assessed on the basis of expertise and that they are of high quality, but there must also be support for appointment in the organisation. Drivers are very decisive for what happens in an institution. By including in this legislative proposal the right of advice in the definition of a profile and in the appointment and dismissal of directors, this is further developed in all sectors. I would like to stress once again to Mr Van Meenen: in all sectors. Therefore, where it is possible and useful, this legislation applies to all sectors. Only where these sectors are organised differently will we make a difference. With my letter of 28 January in which I dealt with the amendments, I also dealt with the amendment tabled by Mr Mohandis and Mr Van Meenen to item No. 20 and Mr Rog and Mr Bruins' amendment to item No. 38. The proposal by Members Mohandis and Van Meenen concerns the inclusion of a representation of students and teachers on the application committee, which makes a binding nomination to the Supervisory Board. Mr Grashoff has just referred to this. That is absolutely an amendment which makes participation easier, so to speak. I heard Mr Mohandis say earlier in the debate. The question is whether it is also exactly in line with the idea of rolling resistance. After all, what is the role of a supervisory board, whose most important role is perhaps the appointment but also the dismissal of directors? I also refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Bruins. It proposes to include a representation of the staff member on the application committee which makes a non-binding nomination. The sensible thing about this amendment is that it does not lead to rolling mixes. It has an important role to play in staffing, without taking on the responsibility of the Supervisory Board. The amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Bruins is perfectly practicable, but I wonder why the staff representation is in it, but not the representation of the students. That is why I suggested that we consider whether both amendments could be merged into a proposal for a selection or application committee for the appointment of members of the board of directors, of which at least a student and a staff member are members. I would add that, as far as I am concerned, staff is broader than teachers. For example, they may also be involved directors of an adjacent academic hospital, or deans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	I thought the Minister came to a conclusion on this point. I have another question about rolling resistance. The proposal I have made with Mr Van Meenen for this binding element, the fifty-fifty ratio in the application committee, can be excellent in relation to roll resistance. How does the Minister explain that this can be done in health care? Clients' councils shall elect one board member on the basis of a binding nomination. The Supervisory Board has to respect that. The rolling resistance is not directly at stake. For me, care is also the public sector. Why shouldn't that be possible in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	Not every sector is organised in the same way. In healthcare we know more private aspects than in education that is a more public sector. Clients in nursing homes are other clients than in hospitals when it comes to temporary residence or long stay. I don't quite see that parallel. I do see the parallel with a member of the Supervisory Board who can be proposed by an or. That's what we see in education. As far as education is concerned, it seems to me that the best way to maintain the stability of the role we know through the distribution of the supervisory board is to maintain it. In the case of foundations, the role of the Supervisory Board is mainly to appoint and dismiss directors. In higher education, we are dealing with many foundations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	The law that regulates this in the care is about various health care institutions that may be there many that have a client council. There is a real debate on the possibility of making a binding proposal for at least one member of the board. For me, care in general is the public sector. I do not share the argument of rolling resistance, because participation with teeth can make it even more robust. That's exactly what a supervisor has been appointed for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	The step taken in the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Bruins is also considerably strengthening these teeth. I would also like to point out the incidents in education. I also learn a lot from the case-ROC Leiden myself. In particular, supervisors should not be able to get away too quickly. There is also an amendment to prevent the reporting obligation of the Supervisory Board to the inspection. I would not have had to do that, but the Chamber has spoken out for it. It also has everything to do with rolling resistance. As far as I'm concerned, it's two. I'd say keep it pure, actually keep it. If an appointment advisory committee comes to a unanimous nomination, a supervisory board must come from a very good house to ignore such a nomination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	I can imagine the Minister's criticism of the resistance to rollback when it comes to a binding nomination by the application committee. In fact, you will have to assume the responsibility for the appointment to the application committee. It then shifts from the supervisory board to the application committee, but this was in the core business of the supervisory board. This does not, in my view, apply to the amendment I tabled together with Mr Van Dijk, which is based on the right of assent. This leaves the rolling resistance completely intact. It is and will continue to be the supervisory board that simply appoints a director. However, it means that the supervisory board in its other role, which it also has, must seek acceptance and therefore ensure that it can be approved. That seems to me to be a much clearer and much more stable model. Would the Minister like to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	I've already done that extensively in the letter. It means that the role of the Supervisory Board is further undermined. You can ask yourself on a lot of points what else is the function of the Supervisory Board. As long as we consider it useful for the supervisory board to have a function, I believe that we should define it as well as possible and let it be distinctive in relation to the role of directors and to participation. That is why I did not recommend that amendment in my letter. I have indicated that I see opportunities for putting together the amendments I have just mentioned, namely the Mohandis/Van Meenen and Rog/Bruins amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	I feel that the Minister is maneuvering around my question and my position. In the letter, the Minister does not go much further than to say that she does not think it is so workable. That seems to me to be a rather poor argument on this point. On the issue of rolling resistance, I am trying to make it clear that it is not at all a question of losing the role of the Supervisory Board. In fact, I believe that the role of the Supervisory Board is and remains precisely defined. The Minister does not comment on the fact that you can still regulate the right of assent with such resistance. The question is that this is also a good way of regulating the role of participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	I don't think you're doing justice to my letter. I have gone much further than just saying that I don't think it's very useful. I have done so from the argument I put forward here: how do you create purity in the roles that one has? If participation takes place in the supervisory seat, it will be responsible not only for the appointment but also for the dismissal of that director. I've been talking about that with student lectures. If participation were not responsible for this, I do not think it is balanced at all. It would be very strange to be responsible for the appointment, but not to be able to follow up if there is an incident and not to deal with the dismissal of directors. So I find the amendment really unworkable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	I would like to touch on the Mohandis/Van Meenen amendment. The Minister manoeuvres between, on the one hand, "tooths for participation" and, on the other hand, rolling resistance. As soon as those teeth become more than a few stray baby teeth, suddenly that rolling resistance comes back into view and we all have to get back together. I would ask the Minister to reflect on the fact that, while our amendment refers to a binding nomination, it comes from a committee of which half of the members have been appointed on a proposal from the Supervisory Board. If the members who sit on the committee at the request of the Supervisory Board do not wish to come to a nomination or disagree on it with the members who sit there on the proposal of the Supervisory Board, there will be no nomination. In other words, the position of the supervisory board is, in my view, more than sufficiently guaranteed. Moreover, the legal right to be appointed by the Supervisory Board remains unchanged. It does not say in the law that this appointment can only take place if there has been no further contradiction or a position of others. It's about the actual appointment. In the extreme case, the Supervisory Board can always say: we simply do not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'd rather turn that argument around. A supervisory board that ignores a nomination of an advisory committee without having very solid arguments for it makes it very difficult for itself to function. It remains the case that a supervisory board is responsible for the appointment. I would like to make it quite clear: not only for the appointment, but also for the suspension and dismissal of directors. I do not think it is desirable, as I said just now to Mr Grashoff, that a nomination at the time of appointment is binding, but that is not the case in the case of dismissal and suspension. You have to leave that to the Supervisory Board. When things like that happen, it's not usually a good situation either. I would not like to put participation in a position in which they deal with it either. When I talk about this with members of co-determination councils, I usually do not hear great enthusiasm about taking that whole responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	The Minister is now bringing in things that are not in the amendment at all. In fact, it does not say that there is a role for this committee, for a participation council or others in the light of dismissal. That's exactly the point. It's been done on purpose. Because the core task of the Supervisory Board is not to appoint directors, but to supervise them. The word actually says it. A dismissal may be a result of good supervision. That is an explicit role of the Supervisory Board. I really think the Minister's making a mess of it. She throws everything in a soup and says: it has a bit too many teeth, it has a little too little role and then we fall back on the advisory right. Everyone in the university is free at any time to give advice on anything. So advice law is basically a wash nose. Let's go through with it, I'll tell the minister. Do it, if necessary, as an experiment. The whole education is full of experiments. Let's just do it. We'll see what happens. I assure the Minister, nothing goes wrong. We have very sensible students and teachers and other staff at universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	I don't hear a question, but the Minister wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	I believe that Mr Van Meenen is not purely reasoning and is taking very large steps. Let us say first of all that legislation is always minimum legislation. Institutions must abide by that. In the debate on Mr Van Dijk's own-initiative paper, too, I said once again that I think it would be fine to experiment with more participation, with other forms of appointment or even with the election. But that must come from the bottom up and from the institutions. We are talking about legislation here, and I must, at least, and I hope Mr Van Meenen will also have pure reasoning. This must create a workable situation. Then Mr Van Meenen can say that it is only about the appointment, but I cannot separate an appointment from a possible suspension or resignation. In the end, as a minister, I must also appeal to a supervisory board. If that supervisory board then says that the appointment of that person was not his responsibility because the nomination was binding, then we do not have a pure relationship between the board of directors, the supervisory board and the accountability that the supervisory board should take to the minister. I say again: with an appointment advisory committee, with a member from the staff representation and a student representation, that is not just an opinion. Let me say that here too. That may be good, because that is part of the interpretation of the law. A supervisory board should therefore never take such a presentation lightly and easily ignore it. But legally there is the difference whether it is binding or not binding. That is quite different from the question of whether it is sensible and responsible if a supervisory board would say: I am putting that nomination next to me, because that person does not like me for any reason. That cannot, of course, be the intention, so I think we are actually taking a real step forward with these amendments. If they were to be put together, that would seem to me to be the best workable thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr President, on a point of order!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr Van Meenen, it is all right, but I would like to make a comment before that. We're doing interruptions in two. I would have liked to give you the opportunity to make a final comment. Then perhaps your point of order is no longer necessary. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was accused of impure reasoning. By the way, I did that to the Minister myself, but that should be possible here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	But finally, now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	My point of order went one step further. We are dealing here with a bill. So this is not an AO we have to put an end to at some point. We really need to be very precise here. Thank you for the opportunity to do so. I will make as little use of it as possible. I would like to talk about the dismissal, because that is what the Minister is constantly calling into question. What is everyone's position in the dismissal? The Supervisory Board should not be able to say: we received a binding nomination, then we got someone here who does not meet and now we have a discussion with the Minister. No, if the supervision is working properly and if a driver is not functioning properly, the supervisory board and the dismissal board have the role to play in preventing a poorly functioning director from continuing until the institution has a problem with the minister. It doesn't have to come to that. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	So it seems to me to be the most purest person who is responsible for this, who has to supervise it from day to day and who has to answer to the outside world and, in this case, to the Minister, can also be fully addressed to that responsibility. Those should not be able to get away with saying: we actually thought so, but there was an appointment advisory committee that made a binding decision. I am not saying that this could be a reproach to the appointment advisory committee, but the supervisory board could very easily use it to shift its own responsibility. And I want to avoid that at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	First of all, it is good that the Minister recalls that she will support it, for example through experiments, if there is a need for more democracy within universities. I know that this wish lives, for example in Utrecht, but also in Amsterdam. The issue of drivers is, of course, crucial in this bill. At the UvA this is now a very topical issue. You can also see teachers saying that they would like to have more say in it, rather than someone from such an old boys' network being parachuted that they have nothing to say about. That is what this debate is about. Is it not a very good opportunity for the Minister to say today that we are going to change that and we are giving the co-determination council a decisive voice in that, rather than always relying on the stability of roles? I think that has now become a kind of symbol for any attempt to democratize. This is the crux of the debate. GroenLinks and the SP say: give the participation council a decisive vote in this, then I think the supervisory board can still carry out its tasks properly. Does the Minister share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	No, I don't share that opinion. I just tried to indicate that. It is not, of course, the case that the role of participation is limited to the application procedure itself. Participation also has a role to play in defining the profile of the driver. Then she also has the so-called right of hearing, so she has the right to hear directors. I also know that there is a frequent failure there when there is a so-called "conclusion" and a driver cannot count on support within the institution. So there really are more elements in the appointment procedure than just the appointment itself. Let me say the following to Mr Mohandis, who made the comparison with the concern. I think that all the rights that exist in education go far and far beyond what is in the care of opportunities and rights. That must be balanced in its entirety. To be honest, I cannot imagine that at any university or college of higher education, as far as I am concerned, it should also be a college, as I say to Mr Van Dijk, that supervisory boards would appoint someone against the wishes of an appointment advisory committee or support committee, given the official right of hearing and any comments of participation on the profile of a director. If that were to happen, there is an extraordinary chance that the Supervisory Board will be asked to give me a clear text and explanation of what is going on. I think that we have enough opportunities to keep a situation workable, not to let people walk away from their responsibility and ensure that the voice of participation, students and teachers is really heard. I say, above all, let everyone make use of the rights that we already have and that we are going to lay down in the law together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	That's remarkable, isn't it? The Minister actually says: if the supervisory board does not listen carefully to the participation council, I will have a word with her. Then we're almost there, I'd say. Actually, we'll agree on the goal. I say that a director must have support within the institution, within the academic community and, of course, within the HBO. We'd like to take care of that here, so we can be sure. Isn't that much stronger than the Minister says: I prefer to leave it in the law with some advisory rights, with which we have little certainty that it will be taken care of really well, because if it doesn't go well, I will speak with the supervisory board. Why don't we take care of it today, just here, so we can be sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	Because that also brings with it disadvantages. I'd say let's take care of it today. I would ask the Chamber to settle it among itself in particular so that there can be a proposal that can count on broad support in the Chamber and hopefully beyond. Let us make sure that, with the responsibilities that the various sections then have, we get to work in particular. Everyone will then remain in a position to play a role and democratisation and participation will increase without creating undesirable situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	I would like to thank the Minister for calling Mr Rog's and me's amendment 'wise'. Maybe she'll find it a little sneaky even. I wonder why, in her response, the Minister specifically mentions deans and directors of related academic hospitals. When I think about the representation of the staff, I really think about the professional in the workplace. A dean is also a staff member, but that goes a bit towards the driver. You also have professional deans. They are not all professors from their profession, in the Netherlands. Can the Minister reassure me and confirm that this is still about what the Christian Union means by "giving more strength to the professional in the workplace"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yes, I fully agree with Mr Bruins on that, but because we are talking about legislation, the fine print is listening closely. Suppose the whole staff representation, which is to be presented in Mr Rog's amendment and Mr Bruins' amendment, chooses someone who does not play a role in teaching but who does perhaps carry out very other important work. In my opinion, it would not be desirable for that person to be chosen. For the report and for the use of this law, let me say that I take it for granted that it is someone from the professional community. Hopefully, for the most part, it consists of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	I note that we have now discussed 4 out of 32 amendments. The Minister will finish her speech first. I ask Members to wait until the end of a block, unless there is no other way. That would help to make progress in the debate. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I think we're still in the process of naming and professionalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	Yes, as far as this block is concerned, I have already said the most important thing. Indeed, I will not end all the amendments. I assume that I have been clear about the other amendments in the letter. Perhaps I should say a few words about the amendments tabled by Mr Beertema and Mr Van Dijk on the liability of directors in the event of maladministration. Of course, I agree with them that it is desirable for directors to be dealt with in the event of maladministration. However, I also referred in the letter on the amendments to the legislation that my colleague from V and J is working on and the bill that is being prepared at that ministry. I hope that bill will be with the Chamber soon. It will be submitted to the Council of State one of these days. Then the question is whether there is still a need for OCW-specific adjustments. I think that is enough in terms of the misconduct of drivers. Mr Bruins also asked a question about this. It was specifically about the difference between special and regular education. In the case of foundations, the general provisions of the Civil Code shall apply. There is also specific legislation for some sectors of education. This is particularly true for universities. All other public education is governed by the same rules as, for example, municipalities. Either way, it's covered. We will look into whether specific educational elements are still needed as a result of Mr van V and Mr J's legislative proposal. However, we must wait for the debate to take place in the Chamber on this proposal from V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	What the Minister says is very interesting. In her letter, she discusses the difference between inappropriate administration and maladministration. It concludes there that inappropriate governance is broader, and the concept of maladministration is much more specific. She writes that this amendment would therefore reduce the effectiveness of the law. However, does the Minister not agree with the following reasoning? Precisely because the concept of "incorrect governance" is so widely formulated, the roles "we have just talked about this resistance to roll" are no longer distinguishable, which ultimately makes everyone a little guilty again. In the case of maladministration, it is much more important to do financial damage, which is ultimately much easier to tackle because these roles are much clearer. There are much clearer responsibilities to be identified. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u49	In my view, then, it should be more about how those who use and interpret the law interpret a concept of'maladministration' and what they think of the relationship to 'incorrect administration'. I'm talking to those who use the law, among other things, about supervisors, but I think the D.A. and the Entrepreneurship Room are also part of it. Again, we are talking about legislation here. In fact, we are talking about legislation here, and we are talking about legislation here, that your amendment could unintentionally lead to the possibility of reducing, rather than increasing, the possibilities of imposing liability on directors. This is without prejudice to the fact that I fully agree with you that maladministration must be dealt with. Unfortunately, we have had to debate this a number of times recently. We now have the right of designation in connection with this. Furthermore, following a request from ROC Leiden, we have a question for further investigation into possible maladministration. I think that this amendment does not add to those possibilities, even in view of the V and J bill coming to the Chamber shortly, because it could unintentionally have the wrong effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u50	I understand the Minister says so. I don't share that with her. That thing that comes from V and J, it's all right. I think that this very specific situation in education, where there are major problems over and over again, is gradually becoming worthy of an amendment of its own. I refer to BOOR, Zadkine, Albeda, ROC Leiden, Amarantis, Ibn Ghaldoun and so on. Those are all schools with major financial problems. As far as I am concerned, it is high time to embrace that amendment quickly, quickly and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u51	No, because we're talking about a law here. Again, the V and J bill is prepared. It depends on the Council of State when it is with the Chamber and then on how quickly that can be handled by your Chamber. It seems to me to be a good thing that a certain urgency can be put in place so that this legislation can enter into force as soon as possible and we can look at where, if necessary, there is still a need for specific legislation on education. Mr Van Dijk also asked what we can do now to get rid of administrators in the event of maladministration. There are possibilities at that point, such as giving a clue. There is no distinction, I say to Mr Bruins, between public and special institutions. I can't fire people myself, but I can ask the supervisory board to fire someone. This has recently provided us with an instrument for taking action on our own. Unfortunately, we make regular use of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u52	However, the VVD welcomes the urgency felt by Mr Beertema for this amendment, which regulates liability. The Minister points out that this may also have disadvantages, that something is coming and that careful legislation must first allow the process to proceed. But what is her ambition, with which she can give us perspective? What are her timelines? The Ministry also has a role to play in this. We all know that the bill has been under construction since 2014, and it is now finally in the hands of the Council of State. If it lasts that long, we'll still be waiting in a few years. Then I understand Mr Beertema's urgency again. I would like a commitment on the timeline that the Minister envisages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u53	As far as I'm concerned, just as soon as possible. But it's not my bill, it's my colleague from V and J. This will be submitted to the Council of State one of these days. I do not have the Council of State on a string; he makes an independent assessment of the time required for this. Usually, that's three months. That could mean it's gonna be at the Chamber before the summer. Then it's in your hands. If you say "we are going to use the summer months for the written round" and if you act quickly, it may be completed before 1 January 2017, provided the First Chamber also deals with it quickly. Again, that depends more on you than on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u54	In her explanation is that the minister is still considering what the implication will be for education laws. Then the department's back to business. I believe that, with all the assessments made by the Minister, there will be some sort of ideal picture and perhaps also a letter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in the sense of 'this would be the ideal timing and so we must work together to ensure that we follow the timeline'. Perhaps in a letter the Minister can indicate what the timeline looks ideally like, including the translation into education laws, should it be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u55	I can discuss your request with my colleague from V and J, so that at least he knows that there is a real need for an early discussion at the Education Committee. Once again, as a cabinet, we can ensure a swift response to the written input. Then the Chamber quickly has a note on the report. However, you decide how long you are going to spend on the report, and you also decide when it will then be on the plenary agenda. I would like to say that I am still particularly concerned about the procedure for the education laws. It may be that some of this is already in V and J legislation, or that I am sending a more limited law indicating exactly what the V and J law means for education legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u56	In any case, this is a good commitment. We're discussing the Administrative Power Act today. This has actually been achieved by failure on the part of administrators and supervisors in education. I say this because it sometimes seems as if we are discussing the Higher Education Participation Act, but that is not the case. My question to the Minister on this point is: what is the real objection to adopting Mr Beertema's amendment in anticipation of V and J's legislation? The Minister called for special attention to be paid to the position of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u57	The objection is that I may have less rather than more opportunities to deal with inappropriate governance, because I can only deal with maladministration and can no longer use the designation power if I think that there is inappropriate governance. It is also necessary to amend the law after the legislative proposal of the colleague of V and J has been examined. For the sake of clear communication with the educational country, I do not think that is desirable. I would then agree on something that I already know will have to be changed later. Finally, I do not rule out the fact that, if the Court of First Instance does its duty properly to look at the legal aspects of a law, it will wonder whether this is desirable. So there is an increase in the chance that there will be a debate on this in the First Chamber, with the risk that people will say: wait until the V and J bill has been dealt with. That would mean that this whole bill would remain on the shelf for a long time, and that seems undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u58	The Minister was in the process of completing the "appointments and professionalisation" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u59	I had actually already arrived unnoticed at the "supervisory" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u60	Fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u61	A number of questions have been asked about this. I shall begin with Mr Bishop's question. The monitoring is also about the consultation obligation. It is now being extended in this law on education, so I say again to Mr Van Meenen. It had already been arranged before, but we have found here that it does not make sense to make a difference between sectors. Mr Bishop asked about the precise purpose of this provision. Should this take place twice a year or half a year? Should calendar technical periods be defined for this purpose? It follows from the law that it must be done at least twice a year. That doesn't have to be exactly every six months. It is up to the parties themselves to decide how to implement this, but it should be done at least twice a year. In the amendment to item No. Mr Mohandis and Mr Grashoff proposed that the consultation between the supervisory board and the participation bodies in higher education should also take place without the presence of the board of directors. I have already indicated that, as far as I am concerned, this should not be necessary, but that I do understand the need and therefore leave the judgement to the Chamber. In the amendment to item No. Mr Bishop's proposal is to delete that obligation. From my responsibilities, I believe that strengthening the counter-force of participation really has added value. I also think it's important to have that good and difficult conversation. That is why I did not recommend that amendment in the letter. I come to the reporting obligation in this context. I note that many Members of Parliament, at least Mr Bruins and Mr Rog, in the amendment to item No. 10, have proposed to delete that notification. In the letter I indicated that I see reasons for keeping this notification, but that I can also move into the reasoning line that the applicants follow. I also refer to the resistance to roll and the Meurs committee. That's how I hope to stay a little steady myself. With these considerations, I can leave the assessment to the Chamber, also because I attach great importance to broad support, let me say that again. Mr Bruins asked about the whistleblower system and the inspection. The inspection regularly receives confidential signals about institutions. These are notifications, questions, complaints and other types of messages. Sometimes it's also about reports of whistleblowers. Article 6a of the WOT, the Education Supervision Act, states: "The inspection acts as a point of contact for persons entrusted with tasks who consider that the quality of education is inadequate as a result of the staff policy pursued by the institution's management." The inspection shall assess whether such reports give rise to a reasonable suspicion that the quality of education is inadequate. The inspection shall be required to keep these notifications confidential. These may also be reports other than those referred to in the above article of the Education Monitoring Act, as the inspection generally sees whistleblowers' reports as urgent signals. They can play an important role, e.g. in risk analysis, or they may give rise to an investigation. Of course whistleblowers get protection. They often want to remain anonymous. I understand that, too. The inspection will then not use the notification in contact with the institution concerned, especially if that information can be traced back to the person of the whistleblower. The inspection therefore already has many rules to receive signals and to allow whistleblowers to make their sound and their worries heard or heard. ........................................................................................ I think that is enough. I would add, for the sake of completeness, that the inspection already has a point of contact where signals come in. The inspection will make it clear on its website that employees, members of the supervisory boards and, of course, others, can use whistleblower signals at this window. It will also indicate how it handles these signals. I hope that I have met Mr Bruins sufficiently with these commitments, including improved communication. Mr Van Dijk has asked a question about the universities. He asks about their investments in real estate plans and talks about an amount of 6 billion. The Education Inspectorate has informed me that universities have indicated in their annual report that they are investing around 1.25 billion in real estate in the coming years over a period of three years, 2014 to 2016. This would be in proportion to EUR 400 million per year. So this is a long way from the amount of 6 billion that I understand comes from the Green Amsterdammer. That magazine does not provide any information on the basis of which those data are based. I will present the report on housing, with my policy response, to the Chamber in the spring. I'm referring to the inspection report. That may therefore be the time for further discussion if necessary. Mr Duisenberg asked about monitoring compliance with the codes in sectors. Codes are regularly monitored in all educational sectors. It shall also verify compliance with the codes. If a code has been modified or updated, there will be another monitoring after two years at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u62	Apart from the exact investment amounts of universities, it is crucial for my group that the community has a say in these real estate projects. I have tabled a fine amendment on this subject and colleagues have tabled a variant to it. The Minister's reaction alienates me. It says that this is already contained in the right of assent to the budget, because it also includes a chapter on housing and management. Does she say that this is settled and that there is a right of assent to housing decisions? Are the amendments before us today superfluous? Or do they actually add anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. If I may, I will take this with me later on in the next section on participation, because several amendments have been tabled on this subject. If I go into this now, the brightness doesn't get any greater. I was talking here about supervision and the relationship with investment by institutions, and about who is responsible for this. This is the result of the statement on the amount of 6 billion which, in my view, is not correct. As the Chamber considers desirable, we can discuss the investment in more detail in the spring if the inspection report is available. I will continue with the other questions under the heading of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u64	Let me take a look at Mr Van Dijk. Does he agree that in the next block on participation the Minister will answer the questions about housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u66	The Minister will now complete the monitoring block and move on to participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Duisenberg asked a question about public accountability about the results and the means used. I will take it with me as part of the subject of supervision and accountability. It is of the utmost importance that educational institutions are accountable, and that they do so transparently, to the relevant stakeholders. I am referring not only to the ministry or inspection, but also to a municipality, parents, arriving students or anyone else. All sectors share the importance of transparency. The PO-Council and the VO-Council have a code of good governance which stresses the active disclosure of the annual report. In the vo it is even a condition for membership of the VO Council. In addition, both sectors are working on a transparent sector through schoolsopdekaart.nl. Data such as final results and vision can be found on this site. The Secretary of State informed the Chamber at the end of last year about the steps being taken over the next two years to work on further transparency in the sector. For example, parents will have more influence on the information presented on schoolsopdekaart.nl and parents and participation councils will be supported to start the conversation with the school on the basis of the available information. For the MBO there is the MBO benchmark, which is published by the MBO Council. This has been the tool for publicising the performance of the sector for several years. At present, the MBO Council is also working on MBO Transparent to make the performance of individual institutions more transparent. This is similar to the windows for accountability in the po and vo. Finally, the results of the JOB monitor, a satisfaction survey among the MBO students, have been made public by the JOB for several years. In higher education, the VSNU and the colleges have been putting the annual reports on their website since 2014. Sectors and institutions are therefore already doing a great deal to ensure public accountability. All things considered, I do not think that any further steps are necessary in this regard. I have already mentioned the expiry of a reporting obligation. I would like to comment on a question on the interface between the appointments. Mr Duisenberg, but also Mr Bruins already referred to the Code of Good Governance and Lifelong Learning. I'll take that with me now. In recent years, following a motion-Duisenberg, the various Codes of Good Governance have been adapted. They regularly check whether these are still up to date. It now states that members of the Supervisory Board should have knowledge of the issues of importance in schools, such as education, finance, personnel policy, management and housing. In addition, the codes provide for supervisory boards to evaluate their own functioning on an annual basis. The Association of Supervisors in Education Institutions (VTOI), which is also active in this context, agreed at its last administrative meeting to the proposal to include education as an integral part of the annual agenda of the Supervisory Board and the Internal Supervisory Board. For example, in the annual report, the Supervisory Board reports on the courses and courses followed. These are all ways of giving hands and feet to lifelong learning. I know that Mr Duisenberg has been a great advocate of this for some time now. Members are also regularly encouraged by the VTOI to take courses and courses. In 2015, more than 600 supervisors were trained. Mr Bruins asked me about a register of supervisors. I have already mentioned in the note on the report that there is no intention for the education sector to establish a register of supervisors. Now that things are moving in the right direction, I do not think it is desirable at the moment. After all, you are sending the supervisors a wrong signal. After all, this is based on mistrust and the idea that they are not doing well, whereas I see real improvement. Mr Duisenberg asked for a response to Risbo's report. The report of Risbo, the good governance of educational institutions, was established through a collaboration between Erasmus University Rotterdam and the Hogeschool van Amsterdam. It mentions a number of conditions for successful forms of good governance and dealing with, you might call it, near-mistakes or near-failure. It includes, in particular, lessons for the learning capacity of educational institutions. This demonstrates the importance of well-functioning checks-and-balances, where all parties are able to find each other and all parties are transparent, open and accessible. I believe that I have now had all the questions about supervision and accountability. I'm moving on to participation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Van Meenen, you missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u69	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether we will be able to hear from the Minister at all, because it is already in her letter, but there are two issues that I would like to address. That's the assessor and the participation report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u70	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u71	On both?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u72	I will come back to the assessor, but I have already answered questions about the participation report in the letter. I don't really have much to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u73	Well, Mr. Chairman, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u74	If you have a question about that, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u75	Yes. The minister says...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr President, may I have the number of the amendment? Help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u77	Let me take a look at Mr Van Meenen. Do you have the number? According to my list, this can be the amendment in part No. 25 years old. I'll see if the clerk thinks so. We now believe that this is the amendment to item No. 30. Mr Van Meenen, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u78	It seems, therefore, that the amendment to item No. 30. With this amendment, the proposers, D66 and PvdA, want to give participation the opportunity to give their own reflection on the policy and governance of the past year. The Minister says: I do not think that is the place, the role and so on. At the same time, in its letter on the accreditation system, it proposes that the training committee should reflect on the quality of education in the context of accreditation. So I don't quite understand the Minister's resistance. What could be against public knowledge of the views of participation on the content of the annual report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u79	The question is more what this adds to an annual report. I myself, and in my opinion the Chamber, attach more importance to the content of education, and to the role of the training committees, in which the role of students is particularly important in assessing the quality of training. This also applies to participation in a more general sense. I'll talk about the training committees later. There are far-reaching amendments on the task and responsibilities of the training committees. So the question is what the added value is, on top of everything that has already been arranged. Participation shall already report annually on its activities and shall ensure that all persons directly concerned are given the opportunity to take note of this report. The question is therefore whether it is necessary to include this in the annual report of the institutions. I do not see the added value of that. It is also not in line with the clarity that we want to make in the annual reports. This isn't the main point, not even for me. However, I think that we should ask ourselves whether everything that can be done should always be done. I believe that there are already sufficient measures for participation to make its experience and views visible. On top of everything we already have, I do not see the added value of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u80	We certainly shouldn't do everything we can, but some things are just right and then you shouldn't let them. I've seen a few more annual reports. The annual report is the real public responsibility, including to the minister and the inspection. These days they are sometimes the most beautiful glossies with stories from carefully selected people who all of course say that it is fantastic, that they have had another beautiful year and you name it all. But as a Member of Parliament, I'm interested in whether there's another side to it. In the context of the balance, care and also of getting an overall picture of the organization, I therefore insist that such a passage be included, of course, if the participation council so wishes. Perhaps this is not a very hard point for the Minister or a big one. It's not for me either. I would therefore say: let's just do it, let's give people the space to include such a passage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u81	I would say: let us take the space to leave it to the institutions, and let us not close all this down in the law. It has to be by the law now. Once again, we are talking about legislation, and that is why we must be careful. It is not in line with other legislation we have, for example the WOR, the Works Councils Act. I do not think it adds anything to the independent reporting that participation can already do. So I do not see the need, apart from the need for an evaluation through participation with the board and perhaps also with the supervisory board on what is in an annual report. However, an annual report is usually mainly the report of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. In particular, let participation take the space to reflect independently on developments within the institution beyond that formal report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u82	Let me come back to the important issue of the level of knowledge of supervisors and directors. I was actually pleased with the Minister's reply on lifelong learning and also with the solution found. However, I would like to take a very specific look at what this means. If I understand the Minister's answer correctly, the Association of Supervisors in Education Institutions decided at its administrative meeting that education will be included in the annual agendas of supervisory councils and that this will be reported on in the Supervisory Board's report. This report is, moreover, usually included in the annual report, which deals with the activities carried out, the number of meetings and the training courses followed. Did I get that correctly? Then there is a concrete translation. That is my first question, and I have a second question on this. These are also typical things to include in those codes, which then need to be adapted. This practicalisation goes beyond just saying that the knowledge must be of a level, and is therefore less non-binding. Is this also included in the codes of all these sectors? So I think it is a charming solution, but I would like it to be laid down in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u83	I think the answer to both questions is yes. If it's any different, I'll come back to that in the second term. In fact, the VTOI indicates that education is becoming an integral part of the annual agenda and that it must also be held accountable. Those codes of good governance are adapted and can therefore be adapted to these agreements. If one also accepts that the Supervisory Board should have knowledge of certain subjects, then I assume that it is logical that this should be kept up to date. So the answer is yes, unless it is different and then I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u84	It is nice that the Minister is going to ask the inspection to amend the text on the website, so that it is also clear to whistleblowers that they can attend the inspection. I'd like to mark that as a commitment. I give a motion for a resolution if the Minister can also assure me that it explicitly states that this can be done under protection from disadvantage. For me, that is the important point with whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u85	I think I should come back to that question in the second term, unless my staff can now state that it is true that people are protected by it, but I see that they cannot do so now. My legal knowledge is lacking in this. That must therefore be done in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm gonna wait for the second term. I say to the Minister and the staff that the texts on the website of the inspection have so far been particularly appealing to the Director of the institution. It says, for example, that the inspection will contact the institution if it receives a complaint. The whistleblower needs to hear that this is not happening, that there can be talk about protection from disadvantage before the institution is approached about the complaint received. This is, of course, entirely for the assessment of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u87	Then I come back to what I just said about people who are afraid that the complaints can be traced back to the person in the institution. Complaints can always be notified anonymously to the inspection. If the inspection goes to the institution, it will ensure that the complaints are not made in such a way that they can be traced back to the person. In this sense, people who complain are always protected in general terms. It would be very undesirable if, on the grounds of fear, one no longer dares to complain to the inspection. So if you mean your question about the protection of the person lodging a complaint, I can answer it in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u88	I think we're almost there. We're gonna go through with it in the second term. It is really about protecting me from harm, so it is not just about anonymity. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u89	I believe that this supplement will require further response in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u90	I come to the issue of participation. This law is indeed not only about participation, but also about participation. Members have already said a great deal about the importance of good participation. I repeat once again that it is important for the educational community to be supported by students, teachers, staff, directors and so on. They make education together. I have already said a few things about the relationship between structure and culture. On the one hand, amendments have been tabled, in particular by SP, GroenLinks, PvdA and D66, which advocate structural change. On the other hand, I also see that the legal possibilities are not always fully exploited, to which Mr Duisenberg rightly referred. I also hear parties, including the PVV, SGP and Christian Union, saying that new legislation is not always the solution. I think we need to find the middle of a good structure that can provide the foundation for the desirable democratic culture in which we engage in good conversation and in which everyone can think with and if necessary against. That structure requires parts adjustment. That's what we do with the changes to this law. I said before that we are building on legislation from 2010, the law strengthening control. In this way, participation in higher education has already been given the following rights, among other things: twice a year consultation with the board of directors on the proposed policy and strengthened right of initiative, I say in particular to Mr Bisschop, who asked whether consultation between the board of directors and participation should also be made compulsory. There is also consultation with the Supervisory Board at least twice a year, which is also regulated by this bill for the other education sectors. In addition, this is a right of advice on policy regarding institution tuition fees, and a right of advice on the profiles of the members of the Supervisory Board. On top of that, we have introduced the right of assent on the main lines of the budget by means of the Study Advance Act. I would like to stress once again that these are all minimum requirements and therefore the institutions are free to do more on top of that. This raises the question of the extent to which minimum requirements are now being properly used and what else is happening other than this minimum legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u91	The Minister says this is the minimum. Yes, indeed, that is exactly the case. The advisory right, the legal minimum, is also the lowest minimum you can have in the Netherlands, because there is no such thing as lower than advisory right. You can go one step higher with consent, which for many already goes right through the ceiling. Is it not time that the possibilities of doing things differently were not put in the hands of the drivers? Surely it is too crazy for me to ask the Minister once again that a director in the Netherlands can decide whether to increase the minimum right laid down by law for participation in his institution or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u92	That's why the board isn't the only move. I just wanted to say that in order to ensure that all the resources we have are used to the full, I asked the student organisation, the ISO, together with the LSVb and the domes to develop a participation monitor and organise an annual day of participation, so that institutions can mirror each other, give each other feedback and exchange best practices. That monitor, which was first released last summer, also showed that the existing legal powers can be used even better. For me, this confirms that new legislation alone is not the solution, even if it would transform all the advisory rights into consent rights. We need more. It is also necessary that people want to run, that people feel involved and that people want to talk about it with each other. In this respect, I disagree with Mr Van Meenen on how far the legal measures we need should be. I note that with the Act now before us, we are already extending the legal scope of this legislation and that there are a number of amendments which extend the role of participation even further. I would also like to come to the amendments which deal specifically with participation and training committees. I would like to say: let us also ensure that we make the most of all of this. The legislation we already have, for example the legislation on the enhanced right of initiative, is still far from being used by the Councils. That only happens in 10%. Half-yearly contact with the Supervisory Board shall also take place at most once a year in one third of the cases. So in a third of the cases, even the current legislation is not used. Let us then make sure that we also optimize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u93	This is the famous chicken egg story. How is it that the rights, which are mainly advisory rights, are not being used? It may happen because they are advisory rights. People would make much more use of their right if it really had a meaning. I am not saying that there should be a right of assent everywhere, but I believe that this should be done on a number of crucial points, not only in terms of culture but also in terms of the interest and use of these rights. My first question was: does the Minister think it is justified that individual directors in the Netherlands can determine how strong the counter-play they receive? Well, that's just unbearable! That's a right for the Minister, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u94	I do not understand Mr Van Meenen's question very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u95	I think most people here understand that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u96	I would like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u97	I note that there is still much room for improvement in the use of existing rights. I also note that boards deal with participation differently. That is why there are also amendments on the provision of information to be given to participation, on which I leave the opinion to the Chamber. Those are all ways of co-determination to contradict the administration. It is not for nothing that I am referring to the enhanced right of initiative. Those are the ways to ensure that a board of directors can decide not only in a tower what criticism it wants to hear or not. I think once again that Mr Van Meenen, with the proposals from the Chamber to further strengthen the contradiction and influence of participation, is actually being served at his beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u98	I have a question about the fact that it is a minimum. We have recently learned that some central administrators of universities like to hide behind that minimum. At the Faculty of Social Sciences of Leiden University, the right of assent to the faculty budget was an option within the framework of consent law on the main lines of the budget. What happened in Leiden? The driver decided to withdraw that right of consent and said: let's just do it at the central level. That minimum therefore has the risk that a driver is not prepared to play straight, but is acting on that very minimum. That is why it is also necessary to stimulate this culture through structure, and not just to hope for a cultural change that is ever taking place. I like to get a reaction to how things are in Leiden. I and Mr Van Meenen have also put questions to the House, but the answers will still be forthcoming. Then there's the right of consent. In practice, an issue, if it is for approval, is often referred to participation twice. That doesn't happen when it comes to advisory rights. In practice, the attitude of the driver also changes when something is submitted for approval, in order for the decision to be genuinely adopted. It is indeed possible to tackle culture through more consent rights. That is better than just pointing out a minimum and indicating that anything is possible. In practice, I see few drivers making the minimum a maximum. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u99	I see a varied policy. I don't just see drivers using it as a minimum. I can see from other institutions that there really are other forms of thinking about participation. We also know here that the debate in this Chamber, however important, is not the only form of dialogue between a government and active citizens. This also applies to universities, colleges and elsewhere. I see good examples. Look at the students of Utrecht University. They have recently been with me with a report with advice on student involvement. Examples: a student panel, an education parliament, interim information, and informal consultation on one day of education per training. In addition, David van Reybrouck's interesting idea was to put together a group that thinks about a specific subject by drawing lots. I know that a process of change has begun in the HAN to move from procedural to more substantive consultation. There we now want to work with joint sessions, key themes on the agenda, quality requirements, profiles and strengthening coherence in participation. Through the assignment I gave the ISO, together with the LSVb, to work towards such a monitor, I hope that we can get this kind of good example more into the foreground and that we can ensure that institutions do not use the minimum as a maximum. Mr Mohandis's specific question will be dealt with further in the answer to the questions put by the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u100	The parliamentary questions are still fresh. The answers will be forthcoming, but this shows that there are drivers who are doing everything they can to hide behind the minimum. I remain of the opinion that the Chamber has a duty to look at the law and see how that minimum can be increased to the maximum. We need to make sure that students are sufficiently equipped, with their instruments, to take what is necessary, if necessary. Right of assent is not a duty, but it can act as a stick behind the door to force the driver to carefully submit the decision-making process and to have that difficult conversation. We're not gonna get there on our own with advisory rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u101	The Minister is always relying on the culture of the institutions. It must be good, but what if the culture of a government is not good and bears witness to power politics, intimidation or a feudal attitude? Leiden University is a perfect example. It just says: the faculty's right of consent? So that's not what we're gonna do. That's what we're gonna override. How is the Minister going to tell the students and teachers there that they have full participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u102	First of all, I think that Mr Van Dijk is a caricature which I do not recognize in any way. It's not just about culture either. I am concerned about the relationship between structure and culture. I would also remind Mr Van Dijk of the Halsema report, which says that legislation alone is unfortunately not enough to solve everything. You can build legislation on legislation, but that does not, of course, give you the right talk. So the balance has to be found. Again, it is not nothing that happens here, even compared to other sectors. I dare to say that education, and certainly higher education, has with this law the most participatory claims that are almost conceivable. But an organisation must also remain manageable, be stable and think beyond just legislation. That's my central story, too. I hope that we can continue to encourage institutions to work on this. If there are really things that are completely out of order and that would fit in with the caricature you are describing, I think that a good conversation between the institution and me is in order. I will certainly be prepared to feed that. In the end, we can take action if this really threatens the quality of education. I'll come back to the designation authority. With another piece of legislation, and one more, and one more, and one more, you will not be able to close that good discussion between governance and participation 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u103	This is very disappointing, isn't it? A caricature? I'd say anything but. In recent years we have seen a series of dramas: Amarantis, Inholland, ROC Leiden, the University of Amsterdam. The entire Virgin House occupation was based on this: students and teachers who did not have a say. I would like to have a very concrete response to the fact that all the fine words about culture become an empty shell if the administration does not want a truly thriving democratic culture. You want to have a good conversation, but I want to spare you that, Minister, otherwise you will have to go out every week to have conversations with directors and supervisors. I want students and teachers to be able to arrange that themselves. Surely you must agree with me, from your party-political point of view alone? Counseling rights are symbolic. Ultimately, the only right that matters is the right of consent. Everything else is non-binding. Does the Minister share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u104	I don't share that opinion. It's about the right balance. I shall read out what is already a right of assent, because you pretend there is no right of assent at all and as if a board of directors, goopee, could throw away any proposal for participation and leave nothing to be desired. there is a right of consent at central level in the adoption or amendment of the institution plan. That's not nothing. An institution plan is about the whole of ideas and plans of an institution. There is a right of consent in the design of the quality management system. That's not unimportant either. It is about how the quality of training is guaranteed. There is a right of assent in the adoption or amendment of the administrative and management regulations. It indicates who is concerned with what. There is a right of assent in the adoption or amendment of a regulation of the University Council. There's a right to education. There is a right to talk to the Executive Board twice a year, twice a year a conversation with the Supervisory Board. There is the right of initiative, the right to make proposals and to express views. In addition, with the amendments that are before us, on which I have already said that they are not indisputable, a lot of rights are added. On top of that, I have a lot of extra rights for student education and central participation in the field of advisory rights. There are now a number of amendments to that effect. Then it's about institutional tuition fees, for example. Then it's about a procedure for paying higher tuition fees. Then it's about the rules that determine selection. In short, we can translate everything into consent law, but it seems to me that we have already dealt with a great deal once again in comparison with other sectors. On top of that, should we now settle a lot of additional claims? I really do not think the image that a board of directors merely puts away advisory law is appropriate. That is not true, because there are a lot of points where there is a right of consent and also because advice law is not nothing. I would like to make sure that we do not paint the picture here that the right to advice does not mean anything, because then we ourselves will ensure that it is not taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u105	It is always an interesting discussion whether the culture should lead the way to the structure or vice versa. In most cases, this discussion is only fruitful if you lead it on the basis of concrete examples. Wasn't it exactly exciting where culture was such that one wanted participation, which wasn't there and wasn't delivered? This is now, for example, about the appointment of a director at the University of Amsterdam. There's a lot of bullshit about that. We're not gonna take care of it. This Minister also disagrees with the right to vote in favour of it. Right where culture is exciting, we don't take care of it. I would like to say the following about the merging and splitting of training courses. Right where it was exciting, we don't settle the right to vote. This means that we are at high risk of radiating here, in the light of the movement where culture is indeed going towards democratisation: you are getting everything out of the shoebox, but not what you really were talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u106	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff at all. I just mentioned a lot of consent rights that I think are crucial. The institution plan is about an institution's vision for the future. It is crucial that there is a right of assent. That's what this is really about. I've said all the things I need about drivers. On the specific case of the UvA, I would like to say that there is now a Committee on Democracy and Decentralisation. If one agrees, there is every room at the University of Amsterdam to experiment with it. I also know that there are discussions there, also in view of the new leaders they are looking for, about possible elections, about a referendum. We have had a wide-ranging debate on an initiative paper by Mr Van Dijk. There, too, I have said: anything is possible, it is possible. I'm not gonna be the one putting up an obstacle. In fact, I would find it interesting if institutions were to experiment with this, because there are several ways to Rome when it comes to participation rather than just the one Mr Grashoff is now coming back to, a binding nomination for the appointment of directors. Let us, above all, use these other possibilities and make the most of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u107	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u108	Surely the Minister cannot disagree with me that the whole thrust of this debate and the Minister's attitude on these issues, at least the two that I have just mentioned very specifically, are one big advertising message for those drivers who simply want to keep coûte que coûte firm and say: we are talking about it, it is our responsibility, you should not interfere?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u109	I cast that conclusion far from me. I do not think she is doing justice to the law itself or to my assessment of all the amendments tabled. I say it again: I see that there are different wishes in the Chamber. A number of groups would like to strengthen participation. I have indicated in several crucial amendments that I do not object at all, but I also want to do justice to the wish of another part of the Chamber not to regulate everything with legislation. I also think that this would not be the solution. It is also important that there is support for what we regulate, that it is also seen as a workable solution by the institutions, the administrators, the teachers, the students and all the others involved. Having said that, I would like to draw attention to other forms of participation. It's not just about drivers. Let me refer to training committees, because they are, in my view, a very, very important part of participation, and they are also really about the quality of education and the involvement of students. This is the subject of a far-reaching amendment tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Mohandis. I would like to indicate how this can fit in with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u110	But not until Mr Van Meenen has asked a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u111	The Minister mentioned a whole list of consent rights. You might wonder why they're actually there. Why aren't they advisory rights? After all, where the good conversation is concerned, is it going to be okay? There are two categories of subjects where it is no harm at all to have a right of assent, because it is almost nothing, I say, when I go off that whole list. Let me go along with the reasoning that these are all very relevant things to which that right of assent relates. Then what could be the argument for the Minister not to grant such a right to other parts? Mr Grashoff has just mentioned a few: decisions on housing, the merging and elimination of training and so on. So what's the argument against that? Before you know it, you'll suddenly come back to your role, while if there is a right to consent to policy decisions, it should in principle be possible to exist on any policy decision. I ask the Minister to give a clear criterion when a right of assent can exist, such as where it already exists, and when she does not think it can. She is throwing a lot of amendments on advisory rights back at us, and I do not understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u112	It has to do with what level of decision-making is taking place. You have central participation at the institution level, you have participation at the faculty level and you have participation at the level of education. Above all, you must ensure that the different levels do not run each other in the wheels. That is why I said on several amendments that I do not think they are desirable. You have to take into account the level at which something happens. If you decide something at institution level, for example institution tuition fees, you should not do it again at faculty level. Otherwise, this can lead to very strange situations within institutions. It has to remain workable. It may be long-term or short-term decision-making. In particular, students are linked to an institution for a shorter period of time, while housing, for example, is often about very long-term decisions. That too can be a difference. And the division of responsibility is different. A student has a different responsibility than a driver, and I cannot give direction, fortunately but, to participation, when I can do so to a supervisory board. We are dealing with all these considerations. That is why, in a rather lengthy letter I sent to the Chamber, I tried to deal in detail with the various amendments, precisely to explain these kinds of considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u113	It is good that the Minister says that there is participation at different levels and that a student is different from a director, etc., but I will not be dragged into that swamp. The Minister goes on to say: students are passers-by, I say: fortunately they are, and that is why you have to deny them certain long-term rights. Now, however, she has just been extensively arguing that students simply have the right to consent to the institution plan, a long-term vision of the university. How does this relate to its assertion that this does not apply to housing, which also includes a long-term decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u114	It is about the detail of the decisions. The institution plan is about the whole, about very specific costs in housing. On this point, the Court has already come a long way with the Study Advance Act, which establishes the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget. I see that this is now working well in the institutions of higher education. Let us ensure that the conversation is conducted in the way that it suits an institution, because not every institution has the budget built up in exactly the same way. So we are talking about housing. I am not saying that they are not about housing, but that other parts can play a role in this. That balance requires a precise balance every time, with each proposal. As far as I am concerned, the most important thing is for students to have more say about the content of training courses, about what they are dealing with in everyday practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u115	You had started by responding to the amendments. I suggest you finish it at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u116	The training committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u117	I would ask Members to bear in mind my original appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u118	I have already explained in my letter the opinion on the amendment tabled by Mr Mohandis and Mr Duisenberg on the better position of the training committee, also in relation to the quality of education. This proposal emphasises the active role of training committees through the right of initiative, the possibility of making proposals, and strengthens the right of initiative, the possibility of having at least twice a year consultation with the training board with its own agenda. The training committee also has an important role to play in the way in which evaluation is carried out. I believe that this is a crucial amendment, which extends the right of assent at the level of the institution to the level of education. That is precisely where, in my opinion, a major improvement is possible. I see that discussions at central level are not always about what they should be about, namely the quality of education. They are about many other things, but are often too little focused on the quality of education. This is also very difficult because the quality of education between schools and faculties can vary considerably within one institution. So I can imagine something about the right of assent on parts, including the OER. I would like to make one exception in this respect, namely in part c of the list contained in the amendment. It's about knowledge and skills, and so it's about end-terms. We have had once again and again discussions on final terms and on the fact that diplomas should never be called into question. The final terms must be clasp-and-ready. In order to maintain that clarity, I ask the proposers not to apply their amendment to part c, knowledge and skills. I also miss the core task of the training committee, advising on the promotion and guaranteeing of the quality of the training highlighted by this bill. I can imagine that happened by accident. I think, however, that it is important that the powers proposed in the amendment also fulfil that core task. That is why I think it would be a good idea to include this core task in the law. I cannot imagine that the proposers would not want that. I have already written in the letter about the sections on the election of the training committee. I have nothing else to add to that. I note, however, that with the amendment, the way in which members of the training committees of universities are appointed is different from that of members of those committees of higher education. This does not correspond to the way in which the law deals with universities and colleges of applied sciences. That is why it is not clear to me whether this distinction has now been made aware and, if so, for what reason. I see no reason to distinguish between universities and colleges in this respect. If the proposers agree with me, I think it would be a good idea to amend that in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u119	Let me serve the Minister and thank her for the way in which she embraces this far-reaching amendment. Most of the points the minister brings in, we'll just take over, except for one point. We just don't agree on that point. I am referring to the issue of the right of assent of the training committees. It's getting a little technical now. The applicants have already excluded parts A and F from the OER, in order to avoid, for example, connected examinations. However, C is really more general about the design of training courses. The Minister ignores a few arguments. Firstly, 50% of training committees consist of teachers. There is therefore already a guarantee of safety for training. The teachers are the professionals. Secondly, the faculty council has the right of assent. That argument is therefore not valid. The parts K, Q and S in the OER are really about the content of exams. Why then have the right of assent for the faculty council on parts that go even further than part C? In short, the authors have been very careful. There's plenty of security safeguards in there. The argument of the NVAO, the accreditation body, has not been mentioned. The Examination Board has related tasks in the WHW. In short, I think I can largely agree with the Minister, except what she says about point C. That can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u120	So point C is the only point on which we still disagree. I'm glad the other parts, A and F, were taken out. They also relate to end-terms. The reference to the NVAO and the examination committees is not sufficient. It becomes very complicated for an examination board to depart from a ruling already made by participation. The Examination Board has to comply with the OER. So that committee cannot deviate and say: we are responsible for the final terms and we can therefore overrule what is written in the OER on that section C on knowledge and skills. The examination committee can therefore not say: despite what is contained in Section C, we have more stringent final terms than what is included in the OER. The examination board determines whether a student meets the final level, but it does not determine the final level and the final terms. Moreover, the OER is generally established in good consultation with the Examination Board. But in the end, the final terms are determined in the OER by the dean. In the performance of its powers, the Examination Board must accept this as a given. I would therefore draw Mr Mohandis' attention, in view of this argument, to Section C, which deals with the final terms. The parts A and F are even more important in relation to the final terms, but also part C, as mentioned above, touches on the final terms. It is my preference not to leave any ambiguity about the final terms of training, also in connection with previous discussions we have had on the value of diplomas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u121	The value of diplomas must never be questioned. But the Minister's argument doesn't go far enough. The training committee consists of 50% teachers. They're not sitting there to make it easier for themselves. In fact, in the end, they have to agree. A training director must agree with the outcome. The Minister ignores the argument that C is not about the content of the exam questions. I also miss the Minister's argument, why there is a right of assent for the faculty council when it comes to parts K, Q and S. Those parts are about follow-up testing and the method of assessment of exams. Those parts go much further. The faculty council has the right of assent. In general, this is very good, because we hear very little about it, so let's not get carried away with cold feet. Because really, part C is generally about talking along and the necessary skills. Students and teachers talk to that. In the end, they must agree together, so that it is not a unilateral decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr Mohandis has a point when he talks about parts K, Q and I. Part K deals with the validity of successfully completed exams and part Q about access to the assessment, questions and assignments of exams.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u123	Part S.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u124	It states that the successful completion of the exams is a condition for admission to other exams. I'm just looking at that in a different way. I say that these are elements which relate to the organisation and procedure, more than to the final terms. But I admit, there are always gradual differences. With A and F it is very clear; therefore you took them out. In C it is about the qualities of knowledge, insight and skills that a student must have acquired at the end of the course. More than the other examples you mention, I think that is part of a final term. So I'm gonna give you a second thought to getting C out. If this amendment is adopted in the light of the situation, I shall take this into account...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because I think it is crucial that there should be no discussion about these final terms. Now I happen to have already asked the inspection to investigate the functioning of training committees together with the ISO this year. In view of the changes we are making by law and perhaps in the case of amendments, it may be appropriate to ask those authorities to continue monitoring properly in the coming period. I give this warning to institutions, training committees and examination committees in order to make the OER very clear with each other, in terms of final terms and in terms of the organisation, design and duration of exams. Let me put it this way, part C may be just on the edge of both, but I see it more as terminus. I understand that Mr Mohandis sees it more as part of the organisation. Maybe he can explain to me one more time why the qualities in the field of knowledge in skills I can still imagine, in his opinion, are not covered by a final term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u125	It's gonna be a pretty technical discussion. I just indicated that the parts K, Q and S contain elements that also belong to a final term. So you can put a lot of things under a term. The essence of the idea is that a training committee, together with a training director, talks about the design of a training course. In practice, this will lead more often to tightening up because everyone wants a good diploma; no one is on a training committee to get a bad diploma. In general, I am mainly concerned with being able to discuss the question of "what kind of education do I want?', "What should we all know in the future?'. So there are teachers in that too, it's not a student matter. 50% of the training committee consists of teachers. Maybe we're talking past each other, but my gut says that this doesn't mean that a student might be that the fear is going to determine "well, with a 5.5 it's fine." I believe that in practice it will lead to a better quality of education because the professional talks about what is important to him, namely giving good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u126	On the other hand, you always want to avoid lowering the level of education under pressure from wishes in a training committee. We can discuss this for a very long time, but I am not going to do that. This is a far-reaching amendment in its entirety. I understand the wishes of the Chamber and I think it is also an important movement. If you are talking about considerations that really matter, I say to Mr Grashoff, then this amendment really makes a difference. I find it undesirable to discourage the amendment because of this part in its entirety. I haven't even mentioned the election of the training committee, which is also in it. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I think it is good that we have exchanged this. When interpreting the amendment in practice, it must be carefully considered whether it also offers the clarity which the Court intends to give. With all existing monitors I will certainly take this part with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u127	I feel a little challenged. In my first term, I have already said that I am enthusiastic about this amendment. I have to say that the Minister did not put it in her proposals but that the Chamber amended it. That will happen with our warm support. The minister's trying to soften it a little bit by cutting off the sharp edges. This is just for the clarity of the debate. In addition to what Mr Mohandis has said, I really do not see where the suspicion that participation would nibble the quality of the level of education would come from, and that again in the light of the debate on accreditation that we recently had! In this context, together with Mr Duisenberg, I strongly advocated the creation of a 'loeistrak' accreditation system, independent and at the level of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u128	We are talking about legislation, not desirable situations. We are talking about situations that can be avoided, and that is where the law is also aimed at preventing and avoiding any kind of crime in the case of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am not saying that it will happen naturally, fortunately not. I see that student representation in higher education is generally very involved and wants, above all, good education. However, I make not only a law for desirable situations, but also for situations that are undesirable. That's when you need a law. The drafting of legislation simply needs to be done with precision. Mr Van Dijk asked how I felt about a right of nomination with regard to the training directors. It is an interesting idea to involve the training committee in the appointment of a training director. The law already offers that possibility. In this case, too, I would stress that a binding nomination is at odds with the employer-employee relationship. However, I would strongly encourage it if institutional steps were taken to go beyond the minimum requirements. I come to the amendment to item No. 25 by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis on the student assessment. We have also discussed this issue many times in the Chamber, but I think it is important to say a few words about it. I find it interesting to put this into practice at educational level. We already have possibilities for the student assessor at faculty level. I would like to tell the authors that I think it is very important for participation to be involved in shaping it. That really must be done at the very first stage. I have also suggested to the proposers that the amendment should be put into practice in such a way that the initiative for a student assessor is included in the co-determination process. In my opinion, it belongs there too, and that the burden of proof lies with the board of directors when it does not support it. So this is again a strengthening of participation. If the amendment were to be amended in this way, I would leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u129	What, then, can the Minister's view be a relevant input from a board to say: it is good that the co-determination council wants that, but we are not going to do it? What does the Minister see as a burden of proof that should stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u130	I do not have any examples of this, but I would point out that it strengthens the initiative in the area of participation and that a board of directors should explain why it cannot do so. If there are few good arguments for this, in most cases it will mean that the student assessor will have a place within the board of directors. I do attach myself to that; that is what I say in view of the earlier discussion about the student assessor. In a bill from one of my predecessors, the First Chamber also objected to the student assessor, because of the mix of responsibilities. The discussion about the role of the student assessor in relation to participation must therefore be conducted properly and purely within an institution. I think this can be done by putting the initiative really into participation, which therefore indicates what it thinks is the relationship between what participation already does and what a student assessor can do in a board of directors. Again, I have no examples of the burden of proof. As far as I know, there are no examples of boards that have rejected a student assessor with good arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u131	No, I don't know those examples either. To be honest, I cannot imagine these examples at all, not even within the framework of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The student assessor is just a completely different person, he just has a completely different role than a driver and he is not a co-driver. We agree on the reason why it cannot be the participation council to take this initiative. If the co-determination council does not take the initiative, then it will not be there and then it will not have to be there, but if the co-determination council considers it relevant, then it should be done. Of course, there is still a lot to be done about the precise design, but that will also have to be done in the Minister's variant. In her reply, the Minister once again states that there is nothing in the law that precludes this. No, that's exactly the point, also in a lot of other areas: there's nothing that rules it out and yet it doesn't happen in a lot of places, just because the board doesn't want it. Ready. This is the end of the debate in many institutions. We want to put an end to that today. After all, we want to strengthen the position of participation. The Chamber has already given its opinion on this matter; it wants to do so, and it has put it down in a motion. Now it comes down to the implementation of that motion, but the Minister does not. I will not amend the amendment, but I would like to hear from the Minister again what in her view may be the ultimate argument of a government not to want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr Van Meenen is only talking about the board, but it can also be an argument for participation to want it in a different way to ensure that not only a student assessor, because that is a loner, but the whole participation is taken seriously. That's all I care about. That is why I place such a strong emphasis on the relationship between a student assessor and the participation that should be taken into account by the board from the very beginning. I can imagine that this will strengthen the initiative of participation. That's why I can live with a determination. This gives participation a stronger position vis-à-vis the administration. It is becoming more difficult for the administration to say: we do not think this is obvious and irresponsible in this case. I come back to all forms of participation. There's not one model for me. This would actually require each institution to organise participation in exactly the same way. I believe that this does not fit in with the responsibility we want to place on institutions, and with the diversity that we also see in higher education. Let us make particular use of the various possibilities that exist, because there are many other possibilities. Let us look together with the student associations and the institutions at what interesting examples there are, what works and what might be encouraged elsewhere. Before I move on to the last part, which is the main thrust of the budget, I should like to begin with the question of support for participation. Good facilitation is very important. The participation monitor carried out by the ISO in higher education shows that two thirds of the councils have their own budget and are satisfied with the training opportunities. This is therefore positive, but it is all the more striking that only a quarter of the councils use all available training days. It is therefore important to create and use good facilities. I say to Mr Bruins that I see a responsibility here for the whole education sector, because he asked me how I see these conclusions in relation to the participation monitor for the whole of education. I don't go into the support and facilities anymore. When discussing the amendment to item No. 23 of the PvdA on facilities, the amendment to item No. 22 by GroenLinks and the PvdA on information and amendment No. 16 of the VVD on free tuition, I have already said that I leave the judgement to the Chamber if they are adjusted in the way I suggested in my letter. This would certainly be far-reaching proposals for further promoting the support of participation when it comes to tuition fees-free administration. I would like to hear from the authors whether they are prepared to amend their amendments in the way I have proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u133	As the author of the amendment to item No. 22 I welcome the fact that the Minister is able to follow our thinking on the issue of information in general. It says that it would like to see an adaptation in the sense that it can be laid down in the law that it is up to the board of directors to prove that the participation council does not need certain information. I have read this three or four times and I have tried to wonder how on earth it could be possible for the board to prove that certain information is not necessary, if it is not open on the table and therefore material. So my question to the Minister is: is it wise to include that addition? I wonder whether this does not put both governance and participation in an impossible position. Instead of dealing with the content, they have to work together on the provision of information. I am in any case prepared to consider what kind of adjustment is still possible to bring it to another, but at the same time I feel that this is not an improvement but rather a package of trouble in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u134	I think it is good to have this way out, for example, because it may be confidential information. A board of directors must, however, prove that participation does not need this information in order to make a proper assessment of the elements on which participation is being discussed with the board of directors. The board of directors must indicate that. For example, it may be confidential information or information that may affect individuals, but it may also be information that could threaten the position vis-à-vis others financially. The starting point is that the Executive Board provides that information, unless it can convincingly indicate that it is not necessary to give that information to participation. I believe that this is an improvement on the current amendment, for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u135	I can imagine that there are elements on the basis of which you can ask whether certain information can be provided, whether or not it should be given in confidence. Aspects of privacy and confidentiality may play a role, but that is not what the Minister says. She says that proof must be provided that that information is not necessary. That seems to me to be a really bad road, because this is a substantive consideration which is almost fundamentally contrary to the principle that participation determines what it needs in order to be able to carry out its task. Once again, there is every willingness to think about this, but I would also like to ask the Minister how sensible this can be approached, because I do not have a very good feeling about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u136	Let us look outside this Chamber at the exact wording. I am really concerned about the fact that it may be undesirable to share information, for example for reasons of privacy. A board of directors can also say: here you have a few meters of paper and look at it. The question is whether a board of directors is doing the participation a service. Perhaps we can see if we can get out by adjusting the explanatory statement and the amendment to that point. Finally, I would like to comment on the main lines of the budget, which we have often discussed with each other in the framework of the Higher Education Advances Act. The provision of the Higher Education Advancement Act has been in force since March 2015. I understand that participation in universities and colleges has been able to exercise that right of assent over the past year and that this has worked well. The question is how we can learn about this from other sectors. In my letter I already wrote that I would like to look at it. In my letter I also give the reactions to Mr Van Meenen's amendments on the allocation model. I refer Mr Van Dijk, who asked a question about the workload of participation, also to that letter. I would also point out that the agreements on this are not in the area of participation, but in the area of the unions. Mr Van Dijk has asked me whether I share his view that participation should be given the right of assent to the level of remuneration and declarations of directors. My answer to that is: no, I do not share it, because we already have safeguards for that. Think of the Wet norming top incomes. Here too, you must ensure that there is no legislation that violates other legislation. The amendment in part No. 36 by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van Dijk on the right of assent in the MBO. I have already said that I intend to give greater involvement in the MBO in the approval of the budget. I have also said that I sympathise with the amendment. But because there are many similarities between MBO and ho, I think it is important to look closely at how we are going to shape this in the MBO. I have not yet been able to discuss this extensively with everyone. I also note that there are differences of opinion on this. The AOb believes that this should be incorporated into the law for all sectors. The JOB is positive, but according to her local student councils often lack specific financial knowledge, so she wants to talk about it first. The JOB is also afraid that the student councils could be held liable for financial mismanagement with a right of consent and wants clear agreements. The MBO Council opposes the introduction of a right of assent and considers the powers as provided for in the WOR. In short, it is important that I look at this carefully. I would like to discuss this with the relevant sections. That is why I have indicated that I prefer to include this part in another legislative process, also because it would have to pass through the Council of State. It's also pretty far-reaching. I would prefer the starting point to be established, possibly by means of a motion. We can then take it with us in the consideration of another bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u137	I understand that, but I have a slightly different proposal: to amend the amendment. I've already done that, by the way. The effects, which the Minister needs, could be achieved through a General Administrative Measure. We can define the principle and, where necessary, the further impact on a number of points, I believe, can be achieved through the AMvB, possibly after consultation with the parties mentioned by the Minister. Can the Minister live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u138	I can live with that, if the general starting point is in the amendment. This can then be done by AMvB. In that case, we should discuss precisely how the amendment is amended and what references are mentioned in a further AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u139	I can reassure the Minister, because that consultation has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u140	Huh? How is that possible? In the back rooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u141	No, not with the minister, of course. We've had a little time together. But we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u142	I'm aware of that, because such a probe is always going through me. However, we need to formally exchange this with each other. So you need to look at how this amendment should be adapted in the technical sense. If that's in line with the probe ring I've been notified of, I can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u143	I am not sure whether the amended amendment has already been tabled, but I think it has. I think it's on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u144	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr Van Meenen has not yet informed me, the co-subsidiator. I can reassure him, because I agree with the changes. Let's talk about salaries. The Minister says we have a law on top incomes. That's right: that's the one about the so-called beaming norm, so it's really good. But I think it would be good if the co-determination council also had a right of assent with regard to directors' salaries. There is still a whole world between zero and the beaming standard. Recently, we have been able to see some major discussions about this in the newspapers. So what's wrong with that? I think that goes well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u146	In that case, I will come back to the beginning of the discussion: this is an excellent task for the Supervisory Board. This is linked to appointment, suspension, dismissal, working conditions and so on. With the Top Income Standards Act, we now have a framework for that. The institutions are accountable in their annual report, which is another good reason to keep that annual report with the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. I do not think it is appropriate to lay down detailed rules for such individual cases. First of all, let us ensure that we implement this Top Income Standards Act properly, that good reports are made in annual reports and that, if necessary, discussions are held on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u147	Sure, it is very important that the Law standards top incomes are properly implemented. It's about time. Salaries are a sensitive issue and there are often great annoyances about it, in the vein of: 'These managers take very good care of themselves and we in the workplace have to bite on a stick'. I believe that it would be very good to give a voice to staff and students on salaries as well. This also strengthens the basis for something as crucial as the salary. I've heard the Minister's statement on this. I hope that my colleagues in the Chamber will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u148	I really do dissuade that amendment, but I would add that, of course, in an institution, there can always be discussion about it, including participation. Participation may also discuss the annual report. This is about whether there should be a right of assent. Again, we are dealing with a bill here and we must do it carefully. We must ensure that no double responsibilities are laid down. I agree, of course, that participation, except in collective bargaining, can also, in the light of an annual report, simply talk about declarations and salaries. I note that the amendment to the motion for a resolution, I believe, is part of the text of the motion for a resolution. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm gonna check this out outside the meeting. I understand that there is still a technical problem, but I have to take a closer look. I cannot now make it into chocolate whether or not this amendment has been sufficiently modified. Anyway, with the adjustment, I leave the judgment, as I said earlier, to the Chamber. Finally, I would like to return to Mr Bruins' question on the protection of whistleblowers. Let me put it this way. The inspection can guarantee anonymity but no protection against disadvantage, the term used by Mr Bruins. If the institution finds out who the whistleblower is, it does not fit in with the role of an inspection to assist that whistleblower. I repeat, a whistleblower always gets protection, so that information is not traceable to the whistleblower. I hope that I have dealt with the parts that are really still under discussion. I realize that I did not pass through all the amendments, but I consciously did, because they have already been discussed quite extensively in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u149	I'll take a look at the members. I saw Mr Duisenberg come forward and Mr Van Meenen is also at the interrupting microphone. Mr Duisenberg, did you miss parts or do you still want to talk about parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u150	I thank the Minister for her answer, but at the end of her first term I have one more question. That control has not only led to a tsunami of amendments in the Chamber, but also to some kind of control party at the UvA. A committee has been set up to deal with democratisation. The minister already mentioned it. As chairman, the committee has appointed a lobbyist from the AOb and has submitted a budget of €530,000. How does the Minister feel about €530,000 in educational money being spent on these kinds of parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u151	I really must remain guilty of that. I'm not sure what the terms of reference of that committee are. I do not know what the budget looks like. What I do know is that, in view of the events of last year at the University of Amsterdam, I attach great importance to the joint consideration of how to improve the acceptance of decision-making at both central and faculty level. Then it is up to the institutions to take a sensible decision in dialogue with participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u152	I can shed some light on that budget. Of the €530,000 presented by this committee in response to the democratisation party of this group of people at the expense of all students..................................................................................................................................................................... Does the Minister agree with me that at least a balance should be made between giving money to education and this kind of nonsense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u153	I cannot go into this particular case; that would really go too far. But it must, of course, remain proportionate, as with all the amendments and in the debate we are now having. This applies to the right of assent, to the right of consultation and also to the organisation of participation. It costs money. There is nothing wrong with facilitating participation, thus increasing the support for decision-making and making use of the knowledge of students and teachers to improve education in a continuous process. Of course, there are limits to that, because they remain educational institutions. That is why it is of the utmost importance, as we often say in other debates, that institutions' resources are spent on education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u154	I was just addressed by Mr Duisenberg. I was awarded an old boys network. That hasn't happened to me before. I can tell you that I can't quite match the old boys network of the VVD, which has spread throughout the Netherlands. Just look at various municipalities, or the public service broadcasting, about which the Secretary of State was questioned yesterday when it came to all the VVD friends he appointed there. So you have an old boys network and you have a committee of democratisation and decentralisation, which is now doing well at the UvA. We look forward to her advice with interest. I would like to say to Mr Duisenberg: be present at the presentation, because he can learn a lot from that. I shall now turn to Mr Van Meenen, because he was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u155	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u156	I wasn't at that party, and I wasn't invited. I don't think there's a reason for a party at all, but that aside. I would like to raise two issues, first of all the right of assent to the general budget of the Council. The Minister responded to this, just as different from the MBO, with the reasoning: we should not start with that and move on to the right of assent for the broad lines of the multiannual financial policy. Couldn't we use the same variant as the one in the MBO? So could we record it, because it is a good thing and provides sufficient resistance in a responsible way, and then look forward to its impact at AMvB? How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u157	That's a bridge too far for me. I have indicated that there are a number of similarities between the MBO and the ho. The differences with the foundational education are much greater. In the beginning, I had an exchange of views with Mr Van Meenen on what parts you want and can arrange the same for all sectors of education, and where that is undesirable. I think it's good to learn. I look at the comments I get from the MBO sector, including from the students through the JOB. So let's take that step in the MBO now. I know that the Secretary of State is talking to the Chamber about the financial aspects in a more general sense in primary and secondary education. I also know that he wants to take this issue with him. It seems to me to be a good idea to do this carefully, so we should first have the discussion with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u158	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u159	And perhaps primary and secondary education will be able to learn from the AMvB made in response to Mr Van Meenen's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u160	Learning is always good, of course, but there will also be an end to learning. I made a proposal in October or November 2012 together with the SP to extend this right of assent to those sectors. So I would say that learning could have taken place a little earlier, all the more so because there are a lot of institutions that are doing it at the moment. So I don't quite understand that. I maintain my amendment, but I am happy to adapt it in the same way as with the MBO. I myself have the feeling that the biggest difference between the sectors of education and training on the one hand and the MBO and HBO on the other is that we have a minister for the MBO and HBO who is willing to strengthen the assent and the rights of participation councils, and that this willingness is not there for the PO and for all of us. Can the Minister reassure me on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u161	I have just given substantive arguments. I also know that the Secretary of State has previously exchanged views with the Chamber that he is sympathetic to the principle of strengthening participation in financial policy in fundamental education. It is just a question of how this relates to other issues that arise with regard to financial aspects in the po and vo. This is still being discussed with the unions. That is why it is desirable not to do so now. That is really on substantive grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u162	There is a second amendment on which I would like to ask a question. Of course, I do not agree with this. I do not see these differences. The only difference is that in HBO and MBO it is about students and in vo and po about parents of students. Anyway, sometimes they're smart people too. I would like to comment on the student councils, or rather the participants' councils. There is an amendment aimed at giving pupils the opportunity to have a student council at school if they so wish. So give them the right to do so. This also happens in other decent countries, but apparently that is not good in the Netherlands. I would ask the Minister to explain again what the problem is there, because I cannot see that from the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u163	As former chairman of a student council long ago, I can only agree with Mr Van Meenen that it is desirable that there should also be scope for participation in basic education, especially in secondary education. That's also settled in the WMS. Teachers, parents and pupils have joint participation through the participation council. This participation council as a whole can discuss the issues. Some sections concern more pupils, others more the parents. So it can also be focused on individual sections. The law does not preclude the establishment of a specific council, but it also raises the question of what it adds to what we already have. I note that the participation of parents, pupils and staff is sufficiently guaranteed and that, in line with what I said earlier about participation in higher education, it is also simply a question of making good use of existing resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u164	That is precisely the confusion. This is not a participation body at all, it is a student council, as there can be a parent council and perhaps even a teacher council. This is not at all the same as another participation council, which is simply an organization of pupils who are involved in various aspects of the organisation, sometimes also in the daily organisation of the school, and who increase their support, perhaps eventually for participation among pupils. This must be made possible in schools which have sufficient pupils who wish to do so. A student council is not an extension of the participation council. It's about very different things. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u165	It may also be about the formal form of the amendment. The law does not rule out the possibility of setting up a specific council alongside the participation council, such as a student council. In fact, my department is funding the project 'Strengthening participation'. This is precisely the aim of encouraging dialogue between the co-determination council and the school. Attention is also paid to the support of student councils. The question is whether you should introduce a formal council for that. That is what Mr Van Meenen's amendment does, if I understand correctly. That is at least its scope, as we have judged it legally. The amendment concerns the establishment of separate sections, boards for staff, parents and student councils, which should then advise the participation council. This seems to me to be so complex that it does not ultimately contribute to the objective of improving participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u166	That is not the intention of the amendment at all. They're not pre-participants for participation. They're student councils. At the time, the Minister himself was chairman of such a council. The reasoning is again that the law does not rule it out. That is true, but in many places students would like to have a student council that can deal with all kinds of matters within the school, while it is blocked on the basis of all kinds of arguments. However, it has nothing to do with participation. I will look again at the wording of the amendment in consultation with the Ministry, but my question is as follows. If it were such a student council, such a council that the minister himself was once chairman of, are there any objections that students can determine whether there will be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u167	Let us wait for the amended amendment, but this will be in addition to what is already there, including for secondary education. Is it then necessary to establish such a student council legally? During the time I was in school, there was no legal regulation at all, but in many ways a student council could work very well. Perhaps we should also give the student councils the confidence in this respect, with some support and encouragement through the programme that is already in place. I do not think that we need to judge the entire school board in a far-reaching way. There's a real risk to that. However, let us first see what Mr Van Meenen's amendment is about. In my view, we must at least agree on the purpose of the amendment and what it contains. I can still reply in writing before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mr van Meenen, you want to continue the discussion now, but I think it would be wise to amend your amendment first. You can still come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr. Chairman. The right of assent to the budget, not only in higher education, but also in primary, secondary and secondary vocational education, is only logical. That's consistent. It's weird to only settle it in one sector. I hope that colleagues will support this. Then something about real estate. There too, consistency would be good. The Minister dissuade SP 14 and 31, PvdA, and D66, which regulates the right of consent to property decisions. At the same time, she says that it is already regulated in the right of assent on the main lines of the budget. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u170	This also applies to the fact that you do not want to double-rule everything, especially in such a way that amendments are going to work against each other. There is right of assent on the main lines of the budget since March or April 2015. This is now being used. That's about the main lines. The main lines of action, of course, concern more than one part. These relate to education, research and housing. I would say: let us first make the most of it. If you're gonna refine all that again, you're gonna build a whole network from above. That is undesirable, given that colleges and universities do not all draw up budgets in the same way. So there has to be some room to make good agreements with participation on the way you control the main lines. It seems clear to me that housing in general is one of the main objectives. On top of that, I do not think it would be appropriate to make new detailed legislation for all the parts contained in it. Certainly not at the moment, when we have only just started working on the right of assent of participation on the main lines of the budget. I don't quite see what purpose that serves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u171	Then I see that it is settled on the one hand, at least on the main lines. The amendments tabled by me and my colleagues are specifically aimed at removing property and giving consent to it. I think that is crucial, because there is a great deal of dissatisfaction about this; money to large real estate projects, but not money to education. That has literally happened in a number of institutions. I would say that this is a very legitimate proposal. It is also in line with the Minister's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u172	So it is not, because there really is a distinction between main lines and detailed decisions. So it is no longer a right of participation, nor is it a right of assent. Then it's really about co-management. Then it is a participation that also decides on smaller expenses in the real estate portfolio. Then we are really talking about something other than strengthening co-determination, namely co-government. Then I come back to the beginning of my speech, in which I indicated why this is undesirable. Responsibilities are no longer clearly invested. We then run the risk of creating a great deal of uncertainty, which only increases the risk of major incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'm going back to student participation in secondary education. The Minister has dissuaded my amendment on student participation on the same grounds as Mr Van Meenen's amendment, which has just been discussed. I had the impression that the Minister interpreted my intention differently than I would have wished. I have therefore amended the explanatory statement on the amendment and made it very clear that I am not concerned with setting up a student council or any section or division. I'm making a pure call in there. Each school has a student participation policy and communicates about it openly. The school guide shows how student participation is regulated. I wonder if with the new explanatory statement, in which I have clearly described it, the Minister could go along with that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u174	I haven't seen the new explanation yet. Has the number of the amendment changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u175	It's no. 46. But if the Minister has not yet seen it, it may be for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u176	I understand that. I'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u177	As far as I know, I have no amendment No. 46 seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u178	Then I think it would be wise for us not to look for it now, but to do it neatly in the second term. Mr Bruins' question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u179	I will see where it is in the explanatory statement and where it is in the legal provisions of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u180	All right, then we'll be at the end of the Prime Minister's first term. I thank her for the answers. I suggest we suspend until 2:00 p.m. After that, we will do the work and then we will continue this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u181	I have a point of order. I understand that the next debate must begin at 2.30 p.m. If we suspend until 2 p.m., we have half an hour for the rest of the debate. I'm just saying. I'm looking at my colleagues. I don't mind just going on right now. I can see that others do object.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u182	I'm gonna ask the spokesmen to come and talk to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u183	We're out. We suspend, then we do the work and then we continue this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u184	There's a list of incoming items on the Registrar's table. That list contains proposals for the examination of these documents. If there is no objection to this before the end of the sitting, I assume that it will be accepted.
