ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Pre-security. That was the purpose of the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Employment Relationship (DBA). After a short six months, the conclusion is that this goal has not been achieved. After treatment in the Lower House it soon appeared that the execution by the Tax Administration would also cause beneficialzzp'ers problems. So don't do this now, was the message in the Senate of D66, GroenLinks, the Christian Union and the Party for Animals. Why don't you solve these problems first? But the Secretary of State chose not to turn halfway, but to go completely astray. And now many independent entrepreneurs and their clients are sitting with the baked pears. Only one in five model agreements is approved. Another 2,000 matches await a test. Some 50,000zzp'ers seem to lose their assignments according to initial studies. And what does the Secretary of State do? There'll be a hotline in three weeks. No fines will be imposed until 1 May 2017. But what good is that certainty if you lose assignments at all? What good is that security if you don't get an order at all because clients are afraid of high post-tax rates? Clients have become really shy. I therefore ask the Secretary of State, first of all, to remove the risk of post-taxation for entrepreneurs who are of good will today, just as much as he does not want to impose fines on those who are of good will. Because not only the clients are shy, so is the Tax Administration. For example, the Tax Administration only approves agreements in which an authority relationship is completely excluded. That test is now stricter than what is in the law, as much case law now shows. Why is that? That's where it goes wrong. Now that the Tax Administration is so reluctant to provide security, that brings extra uncertainty. For example, the PostNL parcel delivery companies may have an approved model agreement, while software developers, interim managers, camera people, teachers, journalists and people in orchestras lose or threaten to lose assignments. This tension between labour law and the tax administration should have been resolved before the DBA Act entered into force. Now good-willed entrepreneurs are the victims. That is why I still have a number of questions. I ask the Secretary of State not to have the Tax Administration reviewed more strictly than in the law. I also ask him to decide, by January at the latest, whether he wants to continue with this law. Because 1 May, as the coalition proposes, is of course far too late. That is above all a kind of transparent trick to lift this issue over the elections. But what does the entrepreneur have to do about it, who now loses his orders? The final report of the Boot Committee will also be published in January. Then the 'chaos' must be resolved, to repeat Mr Zijlstra's words. But now the decision of the Boot Committee states that it can also produce interim reports. I would therefore be grateful if we could get such a mid-term report before 1 November. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take care of that? Can we also discuss the model agreements which have been repealed and rejected? Is that what you're looking at? I would also ask the cabinet to implement the Hamer motion adopted unanimously as a matter of urgency. That motion calls for equal working conditions for payroll workers. That motion was adopted by 150 votes in this Chamber. Because payrollers are now the real winners of the DBA Act. But that motion doesn't carry out the cabinet. Will we still have proposals in this area before the end of the year? I also want not only to look at the specific employment relationship, but also at entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship really needs to be taken into consideration. Is the Secretary of State prepared to change the law? For example, if azzp'er runs a decent turnover, has multiple clients and is clearly a contractor, it must be made clear to his client that he will never suffer that this can be seen later as an employment relationship. That's what the client needs to know. The point is that the client is going to give orders to the self-employed again. I propose today to make the law work better, to change the law and to decide much sooner whether or not the law should be removed. If the Secretary of State draws that conclusion today, we can agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr Van Weyenberg has a lot of questions and criticisms, but he also wants the law to be adapted and to work better. Why didn't he make these proposals when this bill was on the table? At that time he was one of the main supporters of this bill, of this law, which has now entered into force. Where was Mr Van Weyenberg when this bill was discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u4	That is a point that Mr Bashir is right to make. We were in favour, because that model agreement had ensured that nurses who provided 24-hour care, palliative care, could work again. We found that an interesting thought. Since the adoption of the law, we have lost confidence very quickly, because we were told that the implementation was very strict. You can see that now. The Secretary of State promised at the time that anyone could file his agreement. But now he says this would be a little too much fun. So we have lost confidence and finally tried to stop this law in the Senate. I was very sorry that the SP was suddenly in favour of this law. Anyway, we also look atzzp'ers differently. So Mr Bashir is absolutely right, but we are a controller. If, in practice, the law does not work, the Chamber must act on it and ensure that principals again give orders and self-employed persons can resume their activities. The purpose of today's debate should, in my view, be that Mr Bashir's concern, my concern, the concern of almost the entire opposition, and hopefully also of the coalition, will simply lead to a return to mandates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u5	This law does nothing about false self-employment. In fact, the realzzp'ers are screwed and the bogus self-employed can, once they have signed such a model contract, just pretend everything is okay and continue with what they were doing. I'm not in the First Chamber. I voted against it in the Lower House. If Mr Van Weyenberg had also prevented this law from being passed, it would not have entered the Upper House at all. Then we could have stopped the law and done something about false self-employment. That is the problem, not the fact that the realzzp'ers are trying to earn their living.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u6	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u7	I fully agree with the analysis that for bogus self-employed people I am thinking of PostNL now continues to be cheerful, while the real self-employed seem to be the victim. We can have you-baked here, but we finally voted against the Senate. The SP made another assessment there. Let us now try to find a solution together for all those real entrepreneurs who are now losing their livelihood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u8	I am pleased to read in the D66 election programme that D66 also wants a more level playing field between employees and the self-employed, and to avoid the race to the bottom. I also know what D66's arguments have been for voting in favour in the House of Representatives: combating bogus self-employment and reducing the administrative burden on the real self-employed. I have just heard a number of proposals from Mr Van Weyenberg on how we can improve the implementation of this law, but I do not quite understand what is in the D66 election programme. It talks about a simple successor to the VAR. D66 wants to introduce as soon as possible a strongly simplified declaration allowing self-employed persons to confirm their status, a self-employed person's declaration. Can Mr Van Weyenberg explain what he means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u9	The PvdA wanted to improve the playing field by introducing azzp fine. D66 was against it. When the cabinet made that proposal, we were lucky enough to prevent it. In our programme we say: do not tax the self-employed more heavily, but also make work more rewarding for employees. I hope we can find each other at that point. What we want is for entrepreneurship to play a much more decisive role. In one of the motions I will table in the second term, the government is asked to amend the law in such a way that people who are clearly entrepreneurs can continue to do their job. 'Cause look what happens now. You're a musician, you play in an orchestra and you teach. No, this secretary of state says you listen to the conductor. That's authority, so it's not a model agreement. You're a theatre maker or an actor and you're listening to the director? Oh, authority! You're not an entrepreneur. You're a journalist? Yes, Max van Weezel must do with the Eye on Tomorrow indeed in the evening between eleven and twelve. Oh, authority! But at PostNL? You can't write an invoice there. That's where you're told what the van must look like. That's where you're told which clothes to wear. That's where you're told which route to drive. But according to this law, with an approved model agreement, it is apparently the self-employed who want the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u10	I believe that the examples just mentioned by Mr Van Weyenberg are precisely the ones that are being fought with the Tax Administration. This law should clarify this. Two more things in advance. Azzp fine? It was about the entrepreneurial facilities and cuts. The employee discount proposed by D66 was an article from Mr Groot and myself a year ago. I'm still not clear what D66 wants in her election program. A self-employed declaration. Does this mean that everyone who becomes an entrepreneur must, as in the past, submit proof of entrepreneurship or a small-scale diploma? Looks that way. Isn't that much more bureaucracy than what we're aiming for with the DBA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u11	That was a lot of questions. Let me answer them all. If the Labour Party and D66 agree to make it financially more attractive for employees, that is fantastic. I hope you'll waive thezzp fine from your previous program, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u12	It's never been in there. I want D66 to cut the crap! There's never been anything like that in there. We find each other at the point of the employee discount and a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u13	The tax on self-employed workers went up at the Labour Party. I don't think there's a word of Spanish in there. My criticism of this law is that, with regard to many entrepreneurs, such as an interim manager who has several clients, we have been engaged in rigorous debates. Just because they're professionals, their client says: you can't be replaced. They seem to be subject to much stricter requirements than those of people who are hired and who are free to be replaced. The real, qualified expert seems to be the victim. I talk to a bunch of clients who don't hire people anymore. What do I want in the program? Everyone's allowed to undertake. You know that the VAR was necessary for many clients to dare, just as many clients now do not dare without a model agreement. Our proposal is: if you are an obvious entrepreneur on the basis of a number of criteria, make sure that it is clear to your client that he never has to withhold premiums for you and will never receive a post-tax. That's clear. Everyone's allowed to undertake. I am glad that Mrs Vos is reading my programme and that she wants to work with me today to find solutions for all those real entrepreneurs who are following this debate and seeing one thing, namely that tens of thousands of contractors are in danger of losing contracts, that many clients are getting shy and that the PvdA and the VVD are only planning to look again on 1 May next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u14	Anything else you'd like to say, Mrs. Mei Li Vos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u15	I just want to conclude that D66 wants to introduce a middle class diploma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u16	That is not the case at all! We are going to help entrepreneurs instead of taxing them more heavily, which is a hobby of the PvdA. Apparently, Mrs Vos is so panicked and so thought out about solutions to help entrepreneurs, that she is now conducting all kinds of distractions in the debate. I hope that in her own term she will tell us, not what she thinks of my plans, but what her own proposals are to help all those entrepreneurs. You've left it in the cold so far, Mrs. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr Van Weyenberg's first words were: better in half than in complete error. That's how I'm in it. Well, then I'm ahead of some interruptions. We have also voted in favour, even under false pretenses. When I see what kind of mess we've gotten ourselves into, I say pull that law. I heard Van Weyenberg say: if the Secretary of State withdraws this law tonight, I'm glad. We can, by a majority in the Chamber, ask the cabinet to withdraw this law today and return to the VAR and send this cabinet back to the drawing table. Mr Van Weyenberg, you are now proposing that 'until 1 January', from the point of view of coulance or for whatever reason, it should be 'until 1 May' and 'Mr Boot' and 'an interim report'. And all this time, all thosezzp'ers are in uncertainty and more and more disappear in welfare. Are you suggesting that now, Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u18	The problem with this law is that it mainly deletes things. It sounds very attractive to me to suspend the law tomorrow, but then the question is: what then? That VAR wasn't ideal either; let's be honest about that too. There's a law. We voted against it in the Senate. Mr Van Dijck also says that he did not think it was a good idea. I try to make the best of it by making sure that clients now dare to take orders again. I want to do that by being free of post-tax if they are of good will. I think that would make a big difference. I am also trying to make the most of it by making sure that implementation in the Tax Administration is much better on steam and by making sure that we change the law so that real entrepreneurship is taken into account. Through all these different measures together, I hope that we can give back perspective to all those entrepreneurs who are following this debate and who are speaking to clients who are no longer able to do so. That is how I want to help them, because I fully agree with Mr Van Dijck that it is our job as a parliament to help those self-employed people now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u19	We just made a false start, didn't we? Then you're not gonna try to fix this bad law with all kinds of horns and bells and legal changes and this and that, to use Mr. Roemer's words? You shouldn't want that, should you? You just have to say: the trash in it, thanks a lot, we're going back to the VAR! It wasn't ideal, but it was still better and it gave more certainty. So we're going to rethink from that VAR perspective about questions like "how are we going to handle constructions?" And "how are we going to offer certainty?" Isn't that a much better starting point than continuing this mess and trying to get it in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u20	A brief response, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u21	I propose a change to the law. We'll go back to the VAR if we have to. I make a number of proposals to ensure in the very short term that clients are no longer shy. I do not believe that the Secretary of State will see that as a minor change. If he is, I hope he passes them immediately. I think that'll help. I am open to any proposal that helps in this debate. That must be the point today; I believe that Mr Van Dijck and I are in agreement on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. We have just heard Mr Van Weyenberg. We're going to see a lot of crocodile tears from all Members of Parliament today about the DBA Act. I've got the voting results in front of me. You see green everywhere; that is all the colleagues who voted in favour. You see one red piece; that's the SP, which voted against. The SP was the only party to vote against this law during the treatment. All the other parties voted in favour of this law. I admit that the VAR declaration was an annual circus. This measure could not be maintained, clients were totally protected and the number of false self-employed who were exploited increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u23	I think Mr Van Vliet is trying to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u24	It's about the vote. I was in favour of that law. I understand that Mr Bashir thinks that everyone here is going to cry crocodile tears, but I do not think he has a crystal ball. So he'll have to wait for my term. He'll be able to hear how I feel about that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u25	That's what we're gonna hear. At least there is a Member of Parliament who is still very happy with the way things are going, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u27	There is a shared responsibility within the DBA Act. That is progress, but it is a very small step in combating exploitation. The reason for our vote against is that this new law does nothing against false self-employment. The law can even legitimise bogus self-employment, because if a contract approved by the Tax Administration is used, it seems to be all right. In fact, nothing is done about the conditions under which you are seen by the Tax Administration as an entrepreneur. Right, that's a missed opportunity. When I look back at how things went, I'm not grieved about our vote against, because we see that real self-employed people are screwed. We see uncertainty among self-employed people who are not hired and who are afraid of not getting back to work. We get signals about discussions with the Tax Administration about model contracts that are not running smoothly and about scared clients who fear post-tax. The Secretary of State doesn't take away our concerns. The figures he mentions in the letter are shocking. Of the 4,700 requests for an assessment of a contract, only 450 have been approved. That is less than 10% of the number of applications. This raises a number of questions. How come such a low percentage is approved? How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with the backlog? When does he think he will have dealt with all the requests that are now there? Why are the conversations running so hard? According to the Secretary of State, the DBA would be more enforceable for the Tax Administration, but I wonder to what extent that is really the case. In addition to the general model agreements and sector-specific agreements, individual agreements may also be submitted to the Tax Administration. Can the Secretary of State indicate how much use is being made of the general, sector-specific and individual agreements? It seems to me that enforcement becomes more difficult when there are so many different similarities. How can enforcement be facilitated? I can't imagine it would be easier if you had a lot of different agreements, but perhaps the Secretary of State could explain that better. Furthermore, the First Chamber was promised that all contracts would be published. Why haven't all the contracts been made public? The payroll contracts seem to be used massively to turn self-employed workers into temporary workers. When is the cabinet going to implement the Hamer motion on equal treatment of working conditions for payroll workers? One of the measures taken by the Secretary of State is the opening of a hotline. I wonder if that's too late, because the law has already entered into force. In a few weeks, there will be a hotline where people can make reports. The question then is what will the Secretary of State do with these reports. When will we get a feedback on that? When will things finally be put right? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u28	I have a factual question. Mr Bashir said four times that the SP was the only one against. What was the voting behaviour of the SP Group in the First Chamber again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u29	If colleagues had followed the SP Group, this bill would not have been discussed at all in the Upper House. Then it would have died here in the Lower House and not on the other side. We have made a political assessment in the House of Representatives and voted against it. In the First Chamber they make their own assessment. The SP Group has indeed voted in favour of this. It has examined whether the present legislative proposal was not contrary to the Constitution or to international treaties. In addition, the Secretary of State had made a number of commitments which led the SP Group to vote in favour. We should have done our job in this Chamber, which is to make a political assessment. That is what we have done and we have voted against it. Other groups have not done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u30	That is remarkable, because that would have been the ultimate moment to intervene. By the time this bill was in the First Chamber, some signals had already been received that the implementation was not going well. But I do not want us to take each other's measure here, because everyone makes their own decision when it comes to voting. I think it is a little ambiguous that Mr Bashir is so harshly blaming other groups for voting in favour, and he probably couldn't convince his own senate group either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u31	The political relations are as they are. Across the street, they're looking at other things than this side. We did our job. Mrs Schouten's group also voted in favour in the First Chamber. Oh, no, I see this one voted against in the First Chamber. I'm sure she did, but she just voted in favour, because she's not in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u32	I stand here with some hesitation, but Mr Bashir does give a very special picture of history. In the Lower House, the SP considered this law to be too broad forzzp'ers. When it turned out that it was much tighter and stricter forzzp'ers, groups such as the Christian Union, GroenLinks and D66 dropped out. There are SP politicians in the Upper House; Mr Bashir knows that very well. When the SP realized how strict this law was forzzp'ers, Mr Bashir's senators voted for this law with conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u33	I believe that they have voted for this with full conviction, but the facts mentioned here by Mr Van Weyenberg are not at issue. I have just examined why the SP Group in the First Chamber voted in favour and it appears that this is due to a number of commitments made by the Secretary of State. He promised, among other things, that all model contracts would be made public, but also that contractors would be expressly informed that they would have the right to submit model contracts to the Tax Administration. Some of these commitments have led the SP Group in the Upper Chamber to vote in favour. In addition, the SP Group in the First Chamber has focused on other aspects, such as conflict with the Constitution and conflict with international treaties. That was not the case. We have made the political decision here, in the House of Representatives. Mr Van Weyenberg then voted in favour. The SP voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u34	Sure, I'm not running away from that either. We have come back from that on the basis of the impact. This is the same effect that the SP convinced that it could still support this law. Mr Bashir, of course, contradicts himself a little: first he says that there was no content, but then he mentions a whole set of substantive motions that the SP has brought in and says that the SP was therefore in favour. So this isn't exactly right. Anyway, let's bury that hatchet, Mr Bashir, and just go help thezzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u35	We should have helped thatzzp'er when the bill was on the table. D66 left that behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the progress of the DBA Act. That is a law that is intended for hundreds of thousands ofzzp'ers, that day in, day out of hard work to get bread on the shelf, who like to acquire assignments and want to know where they stand. In that respect, this law is special. If this law does not work, it may mean that tens of thousands and even hundreds of thousands of people, in the most serious case, are falling sharply in income or have no income at all because they are not getting orders. These are also people who don't have WW insurance. So there's a lot at stake here. A lot. At the speed with which the government tackles this problem, say the slowness, I note that this has not been fully understood. This law could have been good if there was sufficient advance certainty and if false self-employment were to be addressed, but there is no advance certainty. Model contracts are tested far too late and only 8% of them were approved. It was agreed that the model contracts would be made public unless confidentiality was involved. My colleague Bashir just said it. They have not been made public. Only 10% to 20% of the contracts approved are on the website. Where's the other 80%? There should have been an end to the huge discussions. However, this was the beginning of huge discussions, because instead of deregulation, everyone has a separate discussion with the Tax Administration. We do not get an answer to simple questions. On my question "what is a longer duration than usual?', The Secretary of State says: we have a rule of thumb, I'll send it to you. We didn't get that rule of thumb. I don't want a rule of thumb either. I want a policy rule, because a policy rule can give thezzp'er and thus the user legal certainty. This leads to false self-employed. My colleague just mentioned it. For all these difficult ICT assignments and so on, we cannot write a model contract, but we can write it for the parcel delivery companies. That's because we have the idea of personal labor in the law. If you put in your model contract that you don't have to do the work yourself, you can be a vzzp'er. This means that for the simplest work, the delivery of packages or the simplest jobs in a factory, all employees' rights have been removed, as long as the contract states that the person who does not have to carry out his own job and takes care of his own replacement. Will the State Secretary make this stop? It was not the intention of the law to facilitate this form of false self-employment. Does he also want to change the concept of a relationship of authority? That concept dates back to 1907, when industrial relations were really different. Now we're going to measure whether someone brings their own hammer, whether they have to take an assignment, or whether they have to stick to what someone says, for example on a construction site, when the main contractor tells them to do the job between two times. Yes, of course. An in-depth question: how manyzzp'ers does the Tax Administration currently have at work? How long do they work on average and under what model contracts? We know that the tax authorities have often struggled to comply with their own laws. The real problem is that the relationship between employer and employee is made unattractive. The employer must pay two years' wages. The Wwz doesn't work; even the Prime Minister says so. Taxation makes a difference. When is the government going to implement the ibozzp and appreciate that employers get employees? Now everyone gets chased away as azzp'er, to end up on the payroll. That's what neither the PvdA nor the VVD wanted. We ask the government to resolve everything before 1 January. A hard deadline, because the assignments will start on May 1st. In addition, we ask the government not to place the hotline with the Tax Administration, but with the committee. If you have to report to the Tax Office with your own bsn what your problem is, no one is reporting, because it is precisely the people who have a problem and do not know whether they comply with the law. Do you want to report that to your bsn on a new form? It'll take a month to set up that hotline. Come on! That committee is due to submit an interim report before 1 November, as Mr Van Weyenberg said. Can the government solve the problems, or does it leave the hardworkingzzp'ers in the cold?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Industrial Relations, the Law on DBA. Deregulation, less red tape. I now have a model agreement in my hands, picked from the Tax Office site, and that's eight A4's. I myself as an entrepreneur also acted as a client for ZPs and I would scratch my ear three times if I saw this coming by. I understand perfectly well that others do, too. The VVD stands up for this group of independent professionals; that's what I call these people. They're independent professionals. They are enterprising people; they do not need red tape. The concept of "zzp" is gradually beginning to get a pathetic aftertaste. Stop it! Just independent professionals, ZPs. In recent years, especially in the crisis period, the ZPs have had a very strong say. A shortage of contracts, equity and sometimes even assistance. Zp'ers aren't a problem, they're a solution. There are parties who want to force them into the employee's straitjacket and they do not want to do so themselves. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify all those enterprising ZPs who risk losing assignments because clients are afraid to be applied afterwards for premiums with a fine on top of that. This is without prejudice to the need to address inappropriate use. In recent months, the spokesmen were overwhelmed with mails from ZP's, but also from clients. The adoption of model contracts was difficult and it would take far too long for the Tax Administration to reach a decision. In the Secretary of State's progress letter, we see that he, too, realises that there is a need for clarity. The VVD Group has the following questions to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State writes that a cooperative attitude will be shown from the Tax Administration when drawing up the model contracts. That sounds good, but does it feel that way? Has the Secretary of State provided the appropriate instruments to the Tax Office for this purpose? Can it ultimately be arbitrary, or do the employees all have the same line? My group understands that a manual DBA is being used within the Tax Administration and would like to know if this manual is sufficient. In our view, should this rigid guide no longer be brought into line with labour law case law? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In the above manual DBA one assumes the components of labor, wages and authority. A mathematical approach, it seems. Can the definition of authority be adapted to make it more workable for the Tax Administration so that a model contract can be approved more quickly? What is happening in the situation where hours, duration agreements and hourly rates already clarify immediately that they are self-employed? Then we're not going to make things unnecessarily difficult for the ZP, are we? I'd like a response. Within the existing legislation, it has been possible for years that clients may request a decision from the tax inspector in order to obtain prior clarity. To what extent has this been used in previous years? Does the Secretary of State believe that this method will be used earlier than the model agreements proposed now? There's something else about the hotline. Is that just a hotline where Jan and alleman can report anything? Is the Secretary of State prepared to invite the branches directly if the reports show any problems? The VVD thinks there should be a shovel on top of that. Now for the explanation of the debate on the General Political Reviews. There are rightly no fines for the good guys. But what exactly are "good-willed" and "wrong-willed"? For example, are the broadcasters malicious or should they be regarded as benevolent because they are still in conversation? And is it just the non-imposition of fines or also possible premium post-taxation? Is that what the Secretary of State meant? I'd like to hear from him how he points this out. Finally. Our group wants clarity quickly. Previous information said that the Boot Committee will give an assessment of the model contracts. Our group would like to make this clear before Christmas. Can the Secretary of State undertake that that assessment will be at the Chamber for Christmas, along with a cabinet response? During that period can the Secretary of State give an interim opinion on the conclusions that can be drawn from the notifications to the hotline? It would be a good time to take an advance on the follow-up. Our group leader has said it many times: the law is not an end in itself and has to work; and if this law is not going to work, then we must come up with something else. Entrepreneurialzzp'ers and clients should never suffer from unclear rules. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what path he sees in front of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u38	I have a bit of a question about what actually happened between today and two or three weeks ago, when the VVD group chairman said that it was chaos and we heard that we had to get back to the VAR if necessary. You make a number of suggestions and you ask a lot of open questions. What happened to that tone of voice? I now hear that this law is finally given time until 1 May. So I heard your group chairman say something else. What happened at the VVD in the meantime? Why did you change your tone so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u39	It is very strange that Mr Van Weyenberg accuses me of changing my tone. I think we should remember that in the General Political Reviews we heard the leader of the D66 Group, even in the debate with our group chairman, Mr Zijlstra. He also felt that the good guys should not suffer. I believe that both groups found each other in that debate at the time. It is therefore strange that Mr Van Weyenberg should refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u40	That was the rehearsed answer. I would like an answer to my question. My question was, what happened? I've heard big words like "chaos," and that law had to go back to the drawing board. I didn't hear you propose one change of law. Are you swallowing it all under pressure from the Labour Party? Is that the conclusion I'm afraid I have to draw? "Unfortunately" because I very much like to have the VVD as an ally in the file for independent entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u41	It will be clear to Mr Van Weyenberg that I never study answers. Maybe that's his habit, but something like that goes against my own habit. I'll answer his question. In fact, after last week's debate on the General Political Reviews, a letter came from the Secretary of State. Before that letter appeared, the tone of the debate was indeed different, but at that time that tone was broad. But then that letter came and in that letter many answers were given. It is clear that you will then take those answers to the follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u42	So there's a letter. Well, allzzp'ers will sleep now. I can only draw one conclusion: the VVD seems to be okay with its VVD Secretary of State PvdA policy, which is being affected by the self-employed. But Mr Ziengs has another chance: he will be able to vote in favour of our motions to change the law. He can therefore vote in favour of D66's motions, which immediately ensure that clients of good will do not receive a post-tax. Mr Ziengs will therefore have a second chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Van Weyenberg, for this second chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u44	What were the VVD's commitments in the letter that changed the tone? What were the commitments in the letter from Secretary of State Wiebes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u45	Firstly, in the letter, the Secretary of State finally recognises that there is a problem. In the past we got the impression that what was going on wasn't on the retina. In any case, the letter shows that the Secretary of State now endorses what is always expressed in the e-mails we receive. Secondly, the Secretary of State has made a commitment on the imposition of fines. He simply states that he will not impose any fines at that time and will ensure that it is settled first. Thirdly, he has put forward proposals to find solutions to the complaints of vp'ers. I am thinking, for example, of the hotline. That's three points. I think I have met the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u46	It is interesting that a hotline is thought to solve the problems. The VVD said first, I quote the group chairman: if they are not resolved in the short term, then the law should be deleted. At what time should the problems be resolved in concrete terms according to the VVD? Is that for Christmas? After all, you asked for a report for Christmas. How do you define the solution of the problems? Does that mean there won't be any more letters fromzzp'ers? Does that mean that orders must be retained? What exactly is the definition of the solution to the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u47	It's too easy to say that you're just breaking or breaking a law, because then you're creating even more uncertainty. Every time we see the VAR being the solution, we all know that we have been bombarded byzzp organisations in recent years with the request to abolish the VAR. In fact, the DBA Act came into being in consultation with all these organisations. For that reason many parties thought: it comes from the industry itself, so it will be good. However, it did not work out well in the course of its work. Mr Omtzigt has asked when to act. I already indicated that in my contribution. The VVD Group believes that, at least before Christmas, the Boot Committee should be clear, with a cabinet response. We also want the results of the hotline. That is the time to see how big the problem really is and to see if we are going into a path to think of something else. Mr Omtzig quotes my group chairman, but I think he does so with his own interpretation. My group chairman has always said: we are going to see what happens. The law is not a purpose, it's a means. If the drug doesn't work, maybe you should find another solution. In the end, the goal is that the ZPs continue to receive orders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u48	I note that the chairman of the group of the VVD, who is afraid to be here today, is saying that it is necessary to remove that maleized DBA, and that the spokesperson of the VVD is now saying that it is not a goal to delete that law. Then I know exactly what the outcome will be. Unfortunately, that doesn't helpzzp'ers. They are helped when things are published in concrete form and when the word game is stopped about whether there is a problem or not. They will be helped with the solutions that have just been put forward by the three opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u49	The tone of Mr Ziesgs must show that he stands for the independent entrepreneur, but the effect is that the VVD is satisfied when the implementation problems of the law are solved; then it is ready. Is it not true, however, that the basis of these implementation problems lies in the law? It is not just in the organisation of the Tax Administration, but it is at the heart of the law. As a result, these implementation problems have arisen: because there are uncertainties about the assessment of a model contract and about what authority is or is not. Is the substance of the problem not in fact in the law? Shouldn't you amend that law instead of looking, as you are doing now, at some implementation problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u50	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u51	I have just explained it and Mr Ziengs can read the stenogram, but I ask him if it is not much more important to amend the law if he thinks that it is just implementation problems. After all, we will no longer have these implementation problems. The effect is a consequence of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u52	I don't think I used the word "execution problems." I didn't trivialize it. In fact, on the basis of the hotline, we are trying to see how big the problem really is. However, if you want to change a law, you end up in a completely different path. That would mean that, as Mr Klein says, you end up in a route where there is much more uncertainty for the clients or contractors. That is why we want to map out what it is about when we can adjust, for example in January or February, in order to make it work. If that is not possible, as our group chairman has said, and such a law is not an end but only a means, then we must look at another solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u53	First of all, my mailbox is full of letters. Now to say that you only know if there is a problem at the time the hotline is going to work, I find it very weak. Moreover, it is actually much easier, because we have already agreed that there will be no enforcement. If it is not enforced, it goes on quietly and we have all the time to change the law and make amends.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u54	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u55	No one has to worry about it when it is clear that there is no maintenance, as was also pointed out during the General Reviews. So everyone just goes on and says that the model contracts are not mandatory. Why does Mr Zieng play down the problem and doesn't he just say: okay, no enforcement and quietly evaluate and modify?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u56	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u57	I have not heard in any debate that there would be no maintenance. I have only heard that no fines would be imposed. My question was also how you deal with it, which is malicious and what is benevolent. I asked all those questions. Also in the debate during the General Political Reviews, several parties have said that it is being addressed at the moment when there is malice. That answer has been given, so what Mr Klein is saying is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr Ziesgs started with the eight A4s which show the thickness of the contracts. However, that cannot be a surprise for Mr Ziengs. Indeed, the debate on the legislative proposal already made it clear that it would be possible for large contracts to be involved. That also makes sense, because a lot of people want to shut everything down. That can certainly not be a surprise for Mr Ziengs. Does he or does he not think there is chaos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u59	Given the many e-mails I receive, there is indeed a problem in my opinion. Whether that can directly be quantified as "chaos" is a little short for me. In his letter, the Secretary of State describes how the trials have been conducted when we talk about the six-week period that sometimes went on to eleven weeks. He'll give a good explanation for that. Anyway, he's gonna have better time to say that himself in his answer. However, the word 'chaos' seems excessive to me. It seems to me that we should at least get a good picture of what is actually going on and how we can ultimately make up for it, change it and perhaps withdraw it, so that we go back to the VAR, as Halbe Zijlstra said. I do not know if the latter is the solution, but when we get the report in December, we can also see how big the problem is and what we can possibly do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u60	The VVD-group is getting back on track, because at first there was chaos and big problems and now only the state of the mails is being looked at to see that something is going on. I note that there is something going on, namely great uncertainty. Thezzp'ers don't know what they're up to. They don't know if they're gonna be able to make a living. Clients are reluctant to accept contractors. Is 1 May, as suggested by the group chairman of the VVD, a quick period when you are talking about major problems and chaos, as it was previously characterized?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u61	Should it prove in December that the signals are really on red and that we do not implement them properly with the existing law, then we need to look at other things. In fact, I have already indicated that. We can do that before 1 May. A law is only a means, not an end. That was the answer I gave to others. I take it from the contributions of the various groups that we all agree that we do not intend to tackle thezzp'ers but also the clients. We don't want that. We just want those model contracts to work. I think that's our common goal. I'll be filing motions later. I hope that Mr Van Weyenberg will also be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u62	I hope they're decisive. To be honest, it's not quite clear to me. What's the deadline now? As far as I'm concerned, it's chaos right now. Mr Ziengs says: if it is still code red, then we must intervene in the law. Does he agree with me that it's code red today? And does he agree with me that if it's still code red on December 15, then that's the time to pull the plug on that law? Or would Mr Ziengs sneak in and wait until May 1st? To be honest, it's just not clear to me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u63	I think I'm perfectly clear about that every time. I'd like to say it again here. Mr Van Weyenberg keeps putting words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I didn't say it's code red now. I said: we are now going to take stock of how big the problem really is. We will then look in December to see if there is a code of red. We have also said in all our reactions to the outside world: if it turns out that this law is simply not going to work, you will have to do something else at that time. Those are the words that our group chairman has also said about this. There's no room between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u64	I think your group chairman just called it chaos, and you don't do that anymore today. I keep trying and I'm going to ask one more specific question. I would like the Secretary of State today to undertake that every client who hires a contractor, gives a job, does not receive a levy. As well as the well-meaningzzp'er does not receive a fine according to the cabinet, the well-meaning client must be sure that he does not receive a post-tax. I will call on the Secretary of State to do so, if necessary, by motion. I think that would help. Does Mr Zieng agree with me that we should agree today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u65	At least I'll read the motion later. I haven't seen her yet. It depends, of course, on the content of the motion. However, as Mr Van Weyenberg has said, it does sound so that I think it is very reasonable to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u66	I find it quite remarkable that Mr Halbe Zijlstra around Prinsjesdag, when all the cameras are running and the electorate is sitting in front of the pipe, says very coolly: it will not happen to the VVD, we stand before thosezzp'ers and if necessary the VAR. And here is Mr Ziesgs with flour in his mouth saying a bit: you know what, we kick the can a few months further and we'll see where the ship is stranded. There are now a millionzzp'ers in uncertainty. 4,000 model contracts have been submitted and maybe 300 have been approved. It's code red, Mr. Ziengs. And where are those big words from Mr Zijlstra? And why did he send you here with flour in his mouth to defend this monstrosity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u67	A special metaphor: flour in the mouth. I have the impression that some flour has been thrown into the ears from time to time. I think that the position I have taken is very clear, very clear. It is a pity that our group chairman is mentioned, that it is said that he would have sent me. I think this is a debate for the spokesmen. I've been spokespersonzzp since 2010, so I think it's also a good thing that I'm behind the microphone here. But when it comes to the firm words that have been spoken, yea, they are spoken. That has to do with the fact that we stand for that ZP, for that self-employed professional. We're in front of that client. And we also want clarity. I've given it in my contribution. I haven't been unclear about that. I didn't have flour in my mouth about that. I was very clear. We're talking time limits. You have to see how big the problem is. And suddenly throwing everything over the head and creating even more uncertainty for that vp'er, so that even more vp'ers don't get orders, that's incorrect. And we have to fight that. There's got to be some clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u68	What is clearer now than to decide today that this monstrosity goes into the trash? We're going back to the VAR. All thosezzp'ers of yours have another VAR in the drawer this year. In other words, they can get back to work tomorrow with a VAR and rake the assignments back in. But no, you say to thosezzp'ers: stay home for six months waiting for 1 January. In the meantime, they are already in welfare, they must eat their homes and you have put them into poverty. That's what you do to thezzp'ers. You do not stand up forzzp'ers but send thezzp'ers directly to the assistance, by keeping them waiting until January 1st for a glimmer of security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u69	This is pure rhetoric. It is quite simple: for years, during the period I was spokesperson for thezzp'ers, we had reactions fromzzp'ers that they wanted to abolish the VAR. Now it is said by the PVV that it is apparently a very nice solution, but at the time it was abhorred. The organisations ofzzp have therefore proposed to abolish the VAR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u70	So you think this Law DBA is better than the VAR?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u71	This is bullshit...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u72	No, no, no. That's the question. Is the Law DBA better than the VAR?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u73	This is bullshit. The DBA Act is apparently intended to ensure that the client and the contractor agree. With the VAR, the risk was unilaterally deposited with one party. That doesn't mean anything's better or worse. It's very simple. What I indicated was that at the time the DBA Act was created by the input of all those organizations. Apparently, there has not been sufficient thought about its impact. That's what we're finding out here. Then let us look at a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u74	There was still some uncertainty about the dates on which the VVD intends to look at exactly what is the time to decide whether or not we should continue to do so. Actually, I'd like it to be a little more specific. Where does it depend for the VVD to determine whether it will become a "go" or a "no-go" for this law in January?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u75	Suppose the reports show that the vast majority of the ZPs get no assignments and that clients are completely shy. If you add up the facts that you're going to get, I imagine you're going to say we have to go another way. That may be very fast, but it really depends on how you're going to assess that data with each other in the end. That's what we do here in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u76	We all do that in this Chamber, but I think it might be important for the Secretary of State to know what the VVD is going to test. If Mr Ziegs talks about the majority of those who no longer receive orders, does he mean 51%? How are we going to determine that? Can Mr Ziengs then indicate what the scissors he cuts with? Is it because of the DBA Act or because there is no work? Could the VVD perhaps give a little more direction to the Secretary of State, so that the Secretary of State knows when he is on the right track?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u77	I understand that Mrs Schouten is asking this question. Then we have to call percentages, numbers and so on. But every ZP who is not in business at the moment has always chosen to work at his own expense and risk in that construction, but is now out of business, is important to us. This means that we are going to make that assessment at the time the report comes. If in a particular group it appears that several ZPs do not receive orders and are excluded, then we will have to adjust. Then it could be a number or a percentage. However, it seems to me that it is a bit premature to set percentages and numbers already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u78	It wasn't my job to do the percentages or the numbers. Mr Ziegs made a comment about the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u79	You know what a majority is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u80	So it's 51%. My point is more that, in my view, we should indicate to the Secretary of State the direction in which we are going to assess whether this law works or not. I get the feeling from the VVD that we are going to look at it in the hope that model agreements will then be established. I am trying to fill it out for Mr Ziengs, but once again, will he clarify this to the Secretary of State? Perhaps even more important: does he want to clarify to thezzp'ers the question of what the VVD will ultimately come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u81	I would very much like to do that, and I believe that I indicated in my speech how important we think it is for thatzzp'er to continue to do his job and continue to receive these assignments. That's what we stand for. Our message to the Secretary of State is as follows. We call for an evaluation of these model contracts in December. That evaluation will show you how it works out and whether it works out right. On the basis of this report, we can say 'it is not good', but the Secretary of State himself can also establish that. If this is not good, if it is red, if the assignments are not good according to the hotline, then we will have to adjust immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u82	I hear a lot of vague words in the vein of "if things don't go well." I hear only one specific statement, namely that if the vast majority ofzzp'ers are no longer given orders, then the law has failed. There's almost a millionzzp'ers. Is it really the case that half a million people have to be left without a single job and without any income before the VVD concludes that this law has failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u83	It is always so pleasant that in such a debate there is a wave of numbers. We know very well that the term "zzp'er" is very broad. This varies from logopedist to translators to all kinds of services and there are a lot of zzp'ers who just work as a zzp'er and don't need a model agreement at all. If you are a painter and you provide your services to individuals, you do not need a model contract, although the opposite is sometimes suggested. Let's stay away from the numbers and just see what the ultimate goal is. We know that we want to stand in front of thatzzp'er, we also think that things are going wrong, given all the mail messages we've all received in our mailbox. Let's go find solutions instead of throwing each other numbers to the ears of when and when not, ours more, ours less. Let's just come to a solution, I think that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u84	I don't come up with a number. That was the number Mr Ziengs referred to spontaneously. He said: it is a failure if the vast majority do not have a job. Then I think to myself: if that is the barrier that the VVD puts on self-employed people, then the Secretary of State can do just about anything. When I ask what exactly should happen, there will be something about speech pedists. I'm just missing the plumbers, because they don't need a model agreement if they're only fixing something for half an hour. That's right, there's a category that doesn't need that whole thing. But there is a large group ofzzp'ers who currently don't know what they're up to and who aren't hired. What are the concrete actions for them, apart from setting up a hotline, which is going to take a month and wherezzp'ers will have to put all their files on the table, with the chance that they will then be fined and recharged? What are the concrete actions that the VVD believes should be taken to make this law into less chaos? I use Mr Zijlstra's words, but Mr Ziengs does not think it is chaos. What needs to be done to make it a better law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u85	I have indicated this in my contribution. I even asked the Secretary of State for a more detailed explanation of the hotline. I also said that we see a hotline as a point where things are not just reported; they also need to be resolved. That is what I said in my speech, and I think I will answer Mr Omtzigt's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u86	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u87	If the VVD to determine what the problems are now needs a hotline that doesn't start for another three weeks, I notice that Mr Ziengs hasn't read his e-mails and hasn't dared to draw a conclusion about where the angels of the DBA Act are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u88	This is a rather lame conclusion, because all the mails that have come in have been treated seriously. In fact, they have also ended up in the Ministry and I have even understood from almost all those who have sent us emails that action has also been followed directly by the Tax Administration. I am very pleased that these contacts have now been made. If the suggestion is raised here that in the few weeks that those e-mails have been received, no action has been taken, that is incorrect. Only now we formalize it, to make it even wider, so that any client who finds out that he or she is in trouble can report it. And I ask the Secretary of State to take action there. It seems to me that this has been a good action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr Van Weyenberg, you have already interrupted twice. We haven't agreed on numbers of interruptions, but we're not supposed to go on endlessly with about the same questions. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u90	I'll be very brief. According to Mr Ziengs, it's not a code red, it's not chaos. He wants to intervene when most of thezzp'ers lose their jobs. I don't believe the latter. I do not think that Mr Ziengs wants to intervene until then. He'll do that before half a million people run out of assignments. I have a simple question. Today's situation is that 50,000 people are at risk of losing their jobs. We get examples from all kinds of sectors of clients who no longer give orders. If it stays the way it is today, my conclusion is that there is chaos and the law needs to change. If it remains as it is today, what conclusion does Mr Ziengs draw in the middle of December?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u91	It is remarkable that I am now being presented with this question in a different form. I think I have already said something about this in response to another question. I refer to the General Political Reviews, when the group chairmen discussed this issue explicitly. That's where they switched cases. Periods are agreed. In fact, it's been reported who did and who didn't need to be dealt with. I have just said that we can always throw it at one ounce more or less and a figure here and a figure there. Then stay busy with number... there's a hard word for that that I probably shouldn't mention here. We're doing the right thing finding a solution with each other. The letter gives clues for that. I hope that the Secretary of State will, in his reply, take the coat-sticks we are handing him. In the speeches made by previous speakers, I see sufficient points of departure to be able to reach full agreement in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u92	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u93	I'm not asking for a specific number. That is what Mr Ziengs himself brought up. The opposition as a whole, Mr Van Vliet, has yet to speak, says that it is not going well at the moment; it cannot go on like this. What we have been trying to hear from Mr Ziengs for ten minutes now is: does he agree with us that it cannot remain as it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u94	That's odd. I have emphasised in my contribution that things are just not going well. I have indicated that those e-mails have arrived with me as well. I have indicated that there is a great deal of unrest. I'm not gonna let you fool me that I wouldn't see the trouble. I do see that one. I think I've always indicated that from behind this microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u95	I'll be very brief. This is a case of dampening the well when the calf has drowned. You only want to say that there is a problem when thezzp'ers can prove that they no longer have a job. Isn't it much better to see what the current situation is? The ABP prohibits the offer ofzzp'ers contracts. At PGGM there are already 160zzp'ers out. ING and Brunel quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u96	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u97	Let me give you the seriousness of the problem. You don't have to look at whether or not azzp'er gets a job, but you have to look at the clients who are systematically giving away work at the moment. Municipalities are forcingzzp'ers to start a payroll construction. In short, on the part of the clients, it is nothing but misery. You should take that side. You have to make sure that clients givezzp'ers work again. You make it very easy by saying that in December you will see ifzzp'ers have any work to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u98	You need to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u99	I ask Mr Ziengs whether he will admit that it is not a matter of looking at what thezzp'er is losing, but of looking at the clients who do not want to give up work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u100	It was quite an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u101	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u102	That's not the point. You have actually already used your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u103	The question has become clear in the end. I've listened very carefully. Of course, the clients have become shy. They are indeed afraid that they are at risk. At the time at the old VAR they were not at risk. Then the risk was only on the contractor. Now, however, we see that as soon as the client no longer provides contracts, the contractor, who apparently used to be able to work in a certain situation, simply does not receive any more assignments at this time. So of course we will also have to look at the role of the client. It's as simple as that. Except we're dealing with that DBA. How do we deal with that? How do we get rid of that concern for that client?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u104	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u105	Yeah, that's what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u106	I conclude it's and-and. So we look at the assignments that thezzp'ers do not get, but it is also very important that we look at which clients show avoidable behaviour. So that is also a question which the Secretary of State will have to deal with in the near future. Which clients are shy? Mr Ziengs is also very happy when he can hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mr. Chairman. Lose your income in one go. Don't know how long you're gonna have to sing it out with your savings. The rent or your mortgage can't pay. That's terrible, that's really terrible. I also heard that design assignments from artists disappear abroad because the clients no longer dare to order the artists. The commitment of this debate is to make sure that thesezzp'ers get their assignments back. This can only be done by removing the ambiguity from the clients, about as per yesterday. But in order to do that, it's important to know how manyzzp'ers we're talking about right now. How manyzzp'ers are in trouble for this now? I have heard from Mr Spaninks the number of about 50,000zzp'ers. They would now have no or fewer assignments. That's a lot of them, but does that mean that the other 1 millionzzp'ers don't have any problems with this law? This opens up a different perspective on the problems. It is therefore very important that the Secretary of State gets more insight very quickly into the question of how manyzzp'ers now have problems with the implementation of this law. How does he intend to get those figures available? And when is the model agreement for public service broadcasting, for journalists? We have read that they have actually been in consultation for a long time and that the Tax Administration is making it difficult. Does the Secretary of State also speak with thezzp'ers themselves or with their associations? I am thinking of the FreeLancers Association, the NVJ, FNV KIEM, FNV Self-employed, the PZO. There people know very well how to work in the creative sector from the perspective of thezzp'ers in that sector. In my view, this is very important to achieve model agreements. So when is the Secretary of State going to talk to public service broadcasting and the other journalists' associations? And does he involve thezzp'ers and their associations? Another way to increase the security of clients is to clarify enforcement. When does it start, and how? The PvdA Group thinks it's a good governance testimonial anyway if you don't start to enforce until there's just clarity about the law. My group has the impression that this clarity is not yet there. The following could also clarify the situation. Can the Secretary of State present a few examples of "too bad faith" in this debate this evening? What exactly is that in this context? I think we all know what "in good faith" is. But what is "too bad faith"? Who should really be afraid of any post-taxes? Can the Secretary of State give us some examples of this? If enforcement is started once, either by May or perhaps later, then it would help if the government could indicate in which sectors or sub-sectors that enforcement will take place. Everyone here has broken down the tent about the parcel delivery guys. It is an insult to everyzzp'ers that a parcel delivery company from PostNL is called a self-employed person. Who amazes us all: PostNL does have a model agreement. The same applies to medical specialists. A medical specialist in a hospital can be azzp'er while he just always gets his work through the hospital and that work just comes in at regular intervals. I've never understood what kind of "Entrepreneurship" is about it. If the Secretary of State starts to maintain, I would like him to give priority to two sectors, namely the package sector and the medical specialists sector. Then we might have been able to deal with some false self-employment at the bottom and at the top. What is the Secretary of State going to do forzzp'ers who have actually been employed for years and who are now dropped at once by the client? This is particularly important in the construction sector, for example in the case of a 50-year-old construction worker who is not given any more assignments at once and is probably no longer employed as an employee. What will the Secretary of State do in such a case? Will he, in consultation with Bouwend Nederland and the Contractors Federation, ensure that this man still gets a job as a construction worker? After all, they are far from finished. I come to my final point, about the payroll companies and intermediaries. We now see that they are more often engaged. That is also because they have spread so much fog over the past few months about what can and cannot be done. Sometimes those were even lies. Is the government going to act faster on those lies now? Can the government deal with this more quickly? The PvdA strongly supports the fact that our taxpayers' money is being made up of fantastic programmes by public service broadcasting, but it should not be the case that 10% goes on to payroll companies. That should not happen: not a tax cent to the payroll companies! That can't be the result of the DBA. Finally, the purpose of the DBA was less hassle for thezzp'er, more responsibility for the client and less bogus self-employment. The PvdA was and still stands behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u109	I understand the PvdA is committed to public service broadcasting. Finally, that is their advertising machine to make something of the next election. But public service broadcasting costs the taxpayer a small billion, I believe 900 million. Then, of course, it is not the intention that the people who work there should pay taxes again. Imagine that! But that wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u110	No, I understand. I was talking about payroll companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u111	Imagine Jeroen Pauw couldn't work as a vzzp'er with his five tons, but he'd have to pay taxes on that. We shouldn't want any of that, especially the PvdA. I couldn't help myself, Mr. Chairman. But my question was something else. We're all stunned. Mrs Mei Li Vos just said something very important, namely that this law does not protect against false self-employment, from false constructions. She gave two fine examples: the specialist in the top and the postman at the bottom. Both of them can just go on living with a model contract, while this Secretary of State has told us that this is the solution to bogus constructions. Does Mrs Mei Li Vos agree with me that this law actually misses its purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u112	If you have listened carefully, I would ask you to proceed to enforcement if there is clarity as to what is meant by a model agreement and what is to be done with it. I am surprised, like the rest of the Chamber, that there is a model contract for the parcel deliverer. That is why, when enforcement begins, I want it to be done as a matter of priority in these two sectors. Because I also find this very strange, just like the PVV apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u113	We find that very strange, too, but we find it even weirder that the model agreement of those postmen fully meets the criteria. In fact, you couldn't even refuse a model agreement under this law if those criteria of pay were met and you could be replaced. If it says that you can have your neighbor deliver the mail once you're sick, you're, uh, hop, azzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u114	That was precisely my question on the oral questions. What is meant by "replaceability"? I would find it very strange if replacement is the only criterion and then you are an entrepreneur at once. That has been the subject of discussion here before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u115	It is rather amusing to see the PVV and the PvdA in debate, as both parties voted in favour of this bill, both here and across the street. And now there's a lot of crying. Mrs Mei Li Vos referred to the payroll contracts that are now being used to make realzzp'ers temporary workers. The Hamer motion has also been adopted on this. That motion was not adopted recently, but two and a half years ago, and has still not been implemented. Does Mrs Mei Li Vos support the SP's call for this motion to be carried out as quickly as possible, so that payroll workers are given the same rights as other employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u116	Sure. But even so, I don't think the payroll construction should be necessary. That's just extra transaction costs. It is, of course, very strange that, if you can have a normal employment relationship, there should be a payroll company in between. I understand that it is necessary for some sectors, but I would find it very strange if, for example, in the public service broadcasting sector, some of our taxpayers' money is being skimmed by payroll companies. So yeah, sure, I still feel the urge to carry out the Hamer motion. For some sectors it does not have to be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u117	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u118	Unfortunately, we do see that realzzp'ers, not bogus self-employed people, but people who have been working independently for years, are now forced to work as temporary workers through payroll companies. That is due to the law that is now in force and for which the PvdA has voted. In any case, I am pleased to hear that the PvdA also wants to work quickly on the Hamer motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u119	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u120	I share Mrs Vos' frustration about PostNL. I know she's always been very clear about that. There you are quite replaceable, despite your van, your uniform and your driving times. Besides, you don't have your own invoice. Then there is something wrong with this law when it is said at the same time to people working in the broadcasters: no, journalist, you are taking part in a group meeting... I mean drafting, a group meeting is our profession and we are notzzp'ers. That's a nice slip! It is said to a journalist that you are taking part in the drafting meeting, so you are not self-employed. To an entrepreneur in higher education is said: oh, but that is authority, because you are told which room you are in. Hop, 400 self-employed people out at Utrecht University of Applied Sciences. A musician who also plays in orchestras is told: you may have all kinds of different jobs, but you are looking at the conductor and he is also conducting Bach today, so yes, that's authority. Then there's just something wrong with that law, isn't there? Does Mrs. Vos agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u121	Then the question is: what law? De facto, I think we are talking about Book 7 of the Civil Code, which regulates the employment relationship. There are three things in there. The case law always weighs what authority means. That is why I asked the Secretary of State: if you are going to talk to public service broadcasting, include FNV Self-employed and FNV KIEM. They know very well what authority really means in the creative sector. Then it's not about listening to a conductor. When I waszzp'er and typed columns and couldn't work under authority at all because I wanted to type very nasty things, "not under authority" meant that I could run away at any moment. I've never had a problem with that. I therefore welcome the fact that the Boot Committee is coming up with an opinion. I think that "authority" can have different definitions. If we're going to explain "mighty" so thinly that listening to a conductor with a conductor's stick of authority alone, then nothing can be done. That is not the intention of this law, and we did not want it to be so at the time. We wanted to tackle false self-employment. That's a lot more than just a roster. I hope D66 agrees with me that the phenomenon of medical specialists, so-called self-employed people who walk into hospital every day with their breadbox and get their customers through the hospital, has nothing to do with entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u122	In our election programme, they're paid, so we'll find each other there. The practice is that in the review by the far too heady Tax Administration this is exactly the point where the model contracts are broken. Among them are examples of people that Mrs Vos and I really think are independent entrepreneurs. However, they are not getting to work anymore because the clients there are already going to say wrong: I am afraid to do so. I welcome this answer. In the second term, I will also table a motion on this particular point. When I hear it like that, Mrs. Fox will be able to agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u123	Certainly, and I hope that this debate will take away much of the heads-up of the clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u124	Mr. Chairman. If there is a relationship of authority and remuneration for work and replacement, then there is a tax relationship. The employer or client must pay a wage charge and the employee or contractor does not receive tax facilities such as the self-employed. That was the case at the time of the VAR and that is still the case with the DBA Act. Of the total labour force of some 8.3 million people, some 1.040 000 are employed as employees. As of 1 August 2016, some 4,500 applications for the assessment of a model agreement had been received by the tax authorities. That's 0.43%. Apparently, for those other 99.5% of thezzp'ers it is simply clear that they are real self-employed and not persons who, for example, spend five years with one client. I am therefore convinced that the DBA Act does indeed provide the necessary clarity. Of course, applications for the assessment of model contracts have to be processed much faster than within 11 weeks. I've even been finding six weeks for a long time. The expansion of the tax administration's capacity and the new complaint hotline will hopefully be beneficial, but when will a significant reduction in the treatment period be achieved according to the State Secretary? I have to leave it at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u125	You're over your time, but thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u126	Mr. Chairman. When is someone a benevolent entrepreneur? And when are you going to be a real self-employed person? These are two seemingly simple questions on which the most bizarre discussions are now being held. When a client tells you what time to be on an assignment, are you self-employed or not? If there's a supervisor in the workshop who makes a comment about your work, are you self-employed or not? With the DBA Act we wanted to offer certainty, but there has been a lot of uncertainty. Let us be clear: my group supported this law in the House of Representatives. I still share the aim of combating false self-employment. But in the performance, it's not going well. Zzp'ers who want to do business, are no longer hired because the clients no longer dare. In permanent service is also not an option, because a lot of work takes place on a project basis. When the DBA Act was introduced, the impression was that a number of model agreements would be drawn up which would provide clarity. I understand that 10 general and some 50 sectoral model agreements have now been concluded. But how clear are these model agreements? The Secretary of State states that some clients need more detailed or business-specific model agreements. He talks about "some clients," but if you look at the figures, it is a euphemistic formulation. 4.700 model contracts have been submitted to the Tax Administration, of which only 450 have been approved. 1,200 agreements have been repealed, 1,100 agreements have been rejected and about 2,000 more have to be assessed. In short, a bureaucratic monster has been created. How is this possible? The Secretary of State puts the ball to the principals: they want more clarity. But can it also be that they have reason to be insecure, because a published model agreement does not provide sufficient clarity? How often does the Tax Administration say at a client's request: but here is also a model contract? Why does it take so long for a model agreement to be adopted and finally published? The Secretary of State states that no fines will be imposed until 1 May. That seems to me to be the least in such a period of implementation. However, the crux for many clients will be at the risk of post-charges. If there are still discussions between companies and the Tax Administration, then after-taxes can't be discussed until 1 May, can they? The Secretary of State wants to protect self-employed people at the bottom of the market with the DBA Act. The question is whether this will happen now. My colleague Vos was just talking about it. I too am getting signals that the substitution criterion in the model contracts has created a worse situation for workers at the bottom of the labour market. The model agreement has then suddenly become an approval mark for an undesirable situation. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge this situation and find it undesirable? What's to be done now? Is the Secretary of State prepared to give an interim evaluation of the law at the beginning of next year, with the state of play in assessing the model agreements and the complaints received from the Tax Administration? Is he willing to make a weighting or does the law do what he has to do, with a cabinet juice valuation or can be held to the law? In some sectors, a model contract has been pinged back and forth for a long time. Is the Secretary of State going to make sure that we are clear now; rather tomorrow than in three months' time? Is the Secretary of State prepared not to impose post-tax charges if there is any discussion between principals and the Tax Office about the alleged employment relationship? Would the Secretary of State like to see whether some model agreements do not bring workers at the bottom, for example in package delivery, further into dependence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u127	The next item is Mr Tony van Dijck, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Labour Relations today. I think something goes wrong in the naming of deregulation and judgment, because it's a mess, a battlefield. SMEs even called it a bloodbath. The Law DBA is a freak. We see that 4,500 contracts have been submitted and only 370 have been approved. The rest is still under treatment and 1,000 have been rejected. There's a lot of uncertainty. The lead time for assessing a contract is ten weeks, writes the Secretary of State in the letter. Ten weeks of uncertainty. Clients are uncertain about the risks and drop out. Zzp'ers are distraught and without assignments and without perspective. Payroll companies and intermediaries, on the other hand, work overtime. The result is that 50,000zzp'ers will be unemployed at home, thanks to this secretary of state. Is this what this is supposed to be? The DBA was sold to us as a cure for uncertainty and abuse, but the cure is now worse than the ailment. The professionals get frustrated, because they are ultimately irreplaceable, and the little bogus self-employed for which the law was actually intended is facilitated, as has been said by others. Of course, abuse must be dealt with as hard as you can. That begins by clearly defining false self-employment. What, according to this Secretary of State, is a bogus self-employed person? Maybe that's where the crux is. There is an employment relationship when pay is paid, if there is an employer's authority and if one cannot be replaced by a personal job. Let me give you a few examples. Is a stucadoor that is hired as an expert by a contractor to come and play, at a fixed hourly rate, at an agreed time and without being allowed to be replaced, azzp'er or not? He gets money, he's under authority, and he can't be replaced. Or that Spanish teacher who teaches one hour a week in 20 schools, who is bound by the authority and the teaching times and uses the material of the school, and so on? Or the interim managers who perform reorganisations, or the freelance cameraman who makes a documentary, or the substitute for pregnancy? Are these employees or entrepreneurs now? Who knows, let's say it. For the PVV it's clear. Apparent self-employment is that cleaning lady who is hired by the same company she worked for after she was discharged. Because she's a victim and not azzp'er. You have to deal with that, but not by making the whole group ofzzp'ers suspicious and all the clients shy. That seems to be happening right now. Therefore, the PVV proposes to withdraw the DBA Act immediately and to revive the VAR. The Secretary of State must think carefully about how he is going to deal with the real sham self-employment. I'd say back to the drawing board!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u129	Mr. Chairman. I'm in favour of deregulation assessment of employment relationships. Beautiful is that, deregulation, with only the SP against this deregulation, but what a disaster scenario is implementation. So at the core, it's a bad law. Instead of giving more certainty tozzp'ers, more uncertainty is given and loss of work takes place. Clients no longer engagezzp'ers, as I just indicated, by hannes at the IRS. I don't think there's anything liberal about that. In fact, a disastrous situation arises for thezzp'ers: 1 millionzzp'ers in trouble. Our group has already asked 30 parliamentary questions. The answers went from bad to worse, from problems at the UWV to problems at the Tax Administration that are not getting clear. Now there is no maintenance, but the aftercharges are now hanging over the clients like a sword of Damocles. In short: stop bullying entrepreneurs, stop bullying DBA. There's a lot of juridification without any use. There are hundreds of similarities that just don't help anyone at all. I agree with the comments made by the PVV: let us go back to the VAR. The VAR provides clarity for the contractor and thus offers a real opportunity to give "fix the basics" content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u130	It's very easy to bitch afterwards. This applies both to Mr Klein and to the PVV. From Mr Klein I still understand; he is a one-man group. He could not take part in legislative debate because it demands too much from a Member of Parliament to be present everywhere. However, the PVV is a large party. The PVV did not participate in the legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr Bashir, Mr Tony van Dijck was just standing here. He's having trouble getting out of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u132	Mr President, my comment is addressed to both Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u133	It is customary to interrupt when the MP is behind the speaker's seat and not when he is back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u134	Mr Klein can also answer. It's very easy to talk afterwards. When this bill was on the table, Mr Klein was not there and the PVV was not there, but now they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u135	That's right. I will certainly not hide behind the fact that we are a one-man group. On the contrary, because a one-man group has a responsibility, just like everyone else in this Chamber. I will stand for that too, and we have voted in favour of it. What is at issue is that we have chosen principles at a certain point in time. We have chosen to combat bogus self-employment by laying down more problems or, rather, responsibility on the client's part. I've worked for years with a VAR profits out of business myself. That works fine. That works in a good way. That way, you just want to give the client an extra chance with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u137	That is why it is right that we were in favour of the law at the time, because the law would lead to deregulation and cause less problems for thezzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u138	Mr. Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u139	But, Mr President, it makes sense that, now that it doesn't turn out to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u140	You had one minute's speaking time and you have been speaking for about two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u141	Mr Bashir had a serious question. He is asking me to play a role in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u142	You replied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u143	I have had a clear role in the legislative process...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u145	... by being in favour, by then taking into account the problems and by ensuring that it gets better for thezzp'er in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u146	Thank you. You can't interrupt anymore, Mr Bashir. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u147	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u148	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the contributions from the various spokesmen and for the discussion I was able to follow so well from here. I want answers in four blocks. Many questions have been asked about the purpose, the relationship to the VAR and what could and could not be done on the basis of the VAR, but also about the legal framework that is now in place and how the Tax Administration handles it, stricter or not stricter. I'll answer those questions in the first block. In addition, a lot of questions have been asked about specific groups of zzp'ers and clients. Groups in one situation or another. Those groups, with all the questions that have been asked, I want to walk by in the second block. Then I want to go to the third block, in which I will talk about the "how to proceed now?'. Actions. I intend to make a number of commitments and answer questions about previous commitments. I'm afraid that doesn't quite cover me yet. That is why I shall end by going through all the questions chronologically to see which one I have yet to catch. I intend to answer everyone's questions. If the answer doesn't come yet, then one doesn't have to walk straight to the interrupt microphone, because I wrote along very nicely and recorded all the questions. This whole process all began with a letter from Minister Asscher and my esteemed predecessor Weekers from 2013 on combating bogus self-employment. After hearing the various spokesmen, I note that the original objectives are still in place. At the time, we said that real entrepreneurs should be able to do business, but without a circuit of half a million VAR declarations being pumped around. We also found that in the letter "zzp's are essential for the economy, given their entrepreneurship, innovation and care, so that we should not hinder real entrepreneurs and certainly not burden them with administrative burdens. A second objective was mentioned in the letter. We had to do something against a limited number of malicious parties that worked with bogus self-employed people to compete unfairly with companies that did bear fair social charges. I'll come back to all those groups. It is important that both objectives are reflected in the spokesmen's speeches. A lot of care goes out to thezzp'er. I'm getting all these e-mails, too. I have kept a more important part of my career awake from turnover than from this profession, so I can imagine those concerns extremely well. I'm here to talk about that. First of all, a few comments on the VAR. A lot of spokesmen talk about "that law." A lot of laws can be meant, but through the DBA Act only the VAR has been abolished. Other than that, that law didn't do anything. The whole distinction between employment and independence has remained unchanged. All this is clear in recent case law and the Civil Code. In fact, most of the spokesmen referring to "that law" refer to labour law. The VAR, on which I did not hear many warm words in the first term of the Chamber, had many disadvantages. The VAR gave clarity, but only to the client. The VAR even gave a safeguard, but it itself created unfair competition against which no action could be taken. The VAR should be seen as a sign along the motorway indicating that the maximum speed on that road is 100 km/h, with a sign indicating that the next 30 km is not maintained. Then the average speed is certainly higher than 100 km/h. The VAR actually invited that. We are going to see what that results in, because that has resulted in situations that we are now facing. A second disadvantage was that the VAR did not give the contractor any clarity at all. Thezzp'er didn't know anything. In the single successful enforcement action, thezzp'er was often surprised, stunned and fatally unhappy about the fact that he was apparently not found azzp'er by the Tax Administration, while he knew nothing about it. I therefore felt, as responsible for this, the butcher of the labour market. If I've already managed to establish an offense, the weak party in the chain, who didn't know he'd done it wrong, was the victim of it. So I don't want to go back to that VAR either. Following the abolition of the VAR, the implementation period started. The concealing blanket of the VAR, which had actually been over the labour market, was then pulled away. Based on the work there, the Tax Administration expected to encounter a limited group of bogus self-employed people: people who were often driven into false self-employment by clients who, as a stronger party in the chain, might have known that they were doing something that wasn't entirely right. The impression that this is a limited group seems to be true on the basis of the investigations but also on the basis of the experience of the Tax Administration itself. Most of it can just keep working. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. But frankly, the Tax Administration also expected that this small group would mainly consist of notorious malicious entrepreneurs; that's it. The latter is not entirely true, so is the discovery. We have now discovered that the group that according to the assessments does not work according to the law is much wider. There are all kinds of good-willed entrepreneurs, who are only now discovering that their way of working all this time actually came down to an employment contract. This means that we have to be very careful with that group. It is not all parties who knew in advance that they were wrong; they thought that everything was going so well. This is kind of hard on me. Because of this total safeguard of the VAR, i.e. the sign "On this highway is not maintained," a number of sectors have simply lost sight of what the law sees as independence. Several impressions have arisen in this room too. For those entrepreneurs, that's a scare. All this also means that we will not fix this in a curse and a sigh; so that takes some time. I am glad that we have taken an implementation period of over a year. I would like to talk about the way in which we should continue to implement this. All in all, I am glad that the VAR is gone. At the beginning I said it's always about no regret. In no future solution for the labour market will there be a VAR, but giving clarity and confidence is quite a job. In itself, the fight against false self-employment is important. In the Netherlands, we have a very favourable fiscal toolbox for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship is rewarded with thousands of euros net. That is why we are convinced that entrepreneurship creates jobs, creates innovation and flexibility and can be a driving force for economic growth. In fact, we think that entrepreneurship does not replace other jobs, but creates new ones. There is also a reason to encourage it, because these people are more at risk, sticking their necks out and often have to make investments, which is difficult. At the same time, these instruments are of course costly and must be applied in a targeted manner. That is why we all need to limit it to the group for which it is intended. It therefore calls for an assessment. That assessment is always there. I've listened to all the members. None of the members, either explicitly or implicitly, wanted to remove the distinction between independence and employment in any proposal. No one has proposed to abolish the employment, no one has proposed to abolish the self-employed deduction. One proposal to introduce an employee deduction will be far from satisfactory in terms of size. In this Chamber, therefore, we are obviously used to the fact that there is and remains a distinction between these two. But if there is a distinction, then a distinction must be made. That is complicated; not only in the Netherlands, but in all the countries of the world. When do you call someone an entrepreneur and when do you call an employee? That is quite complicated, so there must be a guarantee of that in advance. That's a sacred duty. So I say to everyone who comes up with solutions that it is about giving clarity in advance, but that full safeguard has not worked. We're halfway through implementation now. We really cannot say everything about a number of sectors. But we can see that the question lives: who is azzp'er and who isn't? The Tax Administration does not have the power, as I say to Mr Van Weyenberg, to make a stricter assessment than the law. The Tax Administration does not have the power to assess more loosely than the law. The Tax Administration has 40 and 60 trained people to live according to recent case law and legislation. Because it's quite complicated, the process is set up in such a way that the tax authorities first look at it. Then there is a second reading by the UWV, especially for the sectoral agreements, which are intended to provide a covering system. Again there are people who know everything about labour law. Finally, we have set up a committee. He's been added to the treatment in the First Chamber. I made a commitment on that. Half of the First Chamber appeared to suspect that the Tax Administration was going to do this too smoothly and the other half thought he was going to do it too harshly. Then I said: Neither is the intention, for the law is the law. That's when the Boot Commission was set up. Mr Boot, Professor of Labour Law in Leiden and Judge, presides over that committee. This includes experts who take out contracts that have been approved or rejected by the Tax Administration and carry out their own assessment to check whether it is not too flexible or too strict. We're not done with that trial yet. I haven't heard from the Boot Committee yet. Of a number of sectors, we have not yet fully examined the model agreements submitted. More about that later. My point would be: it'll figure out what it's supposed to be according to the law. Here in the Chamber, opinions fly through the room on who is an entrepreneur and who is not. One spokesperson does find a cameraman an entrepreneur and the other spokesperson does not think a medical specialist is an entrepreneur. Package delivery workers who, at least in the assessment that is now available, come out under the law as entrepreneurs under specific conditions, are dismissed here by spokesmen as bogus self-employed. I note that the discussion is not about DBA, but about the social view of what an entrepreneur is. The Tax Administration doesn't work with opinions or opinions, but with the law. I need to have this discussion. The Tax Administration is simply the enforcer of the law. We'd be standing here looking weird if the tax authorities were to make a different assessment than what's in the law. There may be other views, but I think it's too early to judge. With, for example, the judgments about the NPO (the Dutch Public Broadcasting Office) we are really not ready; I will say something about that later. I therefore invite Members to be cautious and to keep their views on this matter in mind. The judgments that come out are in accordance with the law. The views in the Chamber on whether this is true are, I think, separate from the DBA. This was the block on the legal framework. I'll come back to the review later. This is reflected in the third block of the steps forward, and so on. I think it is useful to walk through the groups in the second block, because this has of course had an impact on all these different groups ofzzp'ers and clients in the past period. The implementation is now halfway through. So I can't tell you what comes out, I can only tell you where we are. I'm walking by a couple of groups. The first group is that of the malicious entrepreneurs. That group is undoubtedly there. To be honest, we've had to bite the lip for years. In many sectors, the Tax Administration knows its pappenheimers. There are notorious malicious offenders: they work with cheaper bogus self-employed people, they compete unfairly and thus take market share away from the bona fide parties. As a result, it slowly shifts to a larger domain of something that is not legal, which is not intended and which was not intended by the legislator. There will also be a shrinking arsenal of entrepreneurs who pay off their burdens neatly. With the VAR there was nothing to gain from these parties. They were protected and we were just laughed at. These entrepreneurs will of course receive a visit on 1 May. We think there are also some notorious acquaintances who are cleaning up their mess in advance. We think so, but we're gonna see. I am invited to mention sectors and I have been told by the enforcers that this is extremely vulnerable and that I can shoot the enforcement giant in the foot, but let me mention one. In the care, for example, there are parties who pose as mediators, but who, according to the letter and interpretation of the law, simply act as employers, who actually make it difficult for competitors and do not pay social charges for something that is evidently employeeship. This also applies in a number of other sectors. These are the parties. They're often old acquaintances. Some are cleaning up their mess right now and others are getting visitors. Then there's a group all the way across the spectrum. According to the firm impression of the Tax Administration and the people involved, there is a very large group of people, by far the dominant group, consisting of the groups I have named my letter group one and two, thezzp'ers and clients who can just get to work. Most of them do not need a model agreement. That's what we learn from recent research by TNS NIPO. It's not unlikely either, because out of the millionzzp'ers only 500,000 had a VAR at all. The rest of us weren't worried at all. Is it a lot if you get 5,000 applications for modeling agreements for 1 millionzzp'ers? That's not much on the million. There is just a very large group that is recognizable without a doubt simply entrepreneur. The stucco has already been mentioned, but even if it's the zzp'er who works for private individuals, who seriously thinks someone will join you when he's painting your house for two weeks? That's not true. There are all kinds of branches and all kinds of sectoral agreements that people are already working with and where excitement has now shifted to other topics in the industry. There are service providers who clearly provide service on the basis of a contract. There are very large parts of the construction, parts of education and also parts of sectors where it runs or can run. Those are the parties who do not expect fines and post-charges if they comply with what has been agreed. They will, because they can work as a zzp'er. No fines and post-charges for anyone who simply abides by those agreements. No surprises in enforcement. There is a challenge in this group. There really is, and I certainly recognize it. Among the e-mails we get are mails from people in this group who simply don't realize that they can just get to work. Therefore, the call to a large part of the entrepreneurs: I beg you, get to work, because you can get to work. Entrepreneurship is involved. Look at the site. Go do that. Find something that fits the employment relationship. We are really on the way to a covering network in the sectoral agreements. I'll tell you later that we're over halfway there. So there's a lot to do. This communication is disrupted by people who may have very different interests. I deeply regret that. I've been communicating about that loudly. We also try to approach parties that do so, but we need to focus our communication on this group: you can just get to work and you are going to do it! That uncertainty hasn't gone away yet. I know, because I read those e-mails too. That is the challenge at that time, namely to get people who can do so to work and to give certainty that is actually already there. Then there's the third grade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u149	I can see that Mrs Vos is at the interrupting microphone, but I would suggest that the Secretary of State first walks through the groups. Members will then be given the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u150	Then we have the third grade. That's the group that doesn't have any certainty yet. I've only received all the negative qualifications about the IRS. I can tell you that, when I sit at the table with the sector leaders, I myself experience that these are willing, service-giving and extremely expert people. Every time I see them, I'm actually impressed. Group three is the group which, of course, is not very easy, because those are the people who function in the grey area. They are almost without exception well-intentioned clients and contractors, but they make proposals that do not fit within the law. They say, "This is how we used to do." Then we say: yes, but then perhaps we need to think about it in a different way. I will come back to it, but I would like to make the following point. Several spokesmen have spoken about the lead time. That lead time is all my fault. It's not a problem to get a lead time of a week or two, but then "no" is "no." In the beginning, of course, there were a lot of these model agreements that were delivered as mandatory employment. No one was trained in this field. Then it's very easy to say "no." But it was me, not the Tax Administration, who said: let's not focus on the shortest possible lead time, but let's focus on clarity. Let's get in the backup position. This is a labour law that is not easy. We haven't been practicing that for the last ten years either. Let's get in the backup position! That means you're not just indicating what's wrong with it, but you're also indicating how it could be. The IRS is not an advisor, but it does have the mission to explain how the law works, what can and what cannot be done. And sometimes such a company takes that home for another two weeks and goes there on puzzles, goes to talk to contractors or clients and then comes back with a version. At some point something comes out. That process is accelerating. I'll get back to you. It is striking that the capacity to deal is going to increase, but we are also seeing the fact that it is also helping to improve the quality of the contracts submitted. The market is learning. We're learning with each other. We also have to see how this group is doing before 1 May. I really think it's too early for conclusions, but I'm telling you honestly that I think a socially accepted outcome is more important than a date. I have a date and I see no reason to pull the wheel halfway through the implementation here. I really think it's too early for conclusions. We're working on some sectors. There are sectors where we are just about to sign a number of things that can pass through. But in the end, an orderly process and clarity are more important than a date, precisely because it is not a matter of notorious abusers but of all good people who are now discovering that they have forgotten what labour law demands of them in the last ten years. That is why I would like to reiterate the commitment here. Where there is no clarity, there are no fines. I say to Mr Van Weyenberg that this also applies to the client. And I say in the direction of Mr Omtzigt that there are no post-taxes either. That doesn't fit. If we are still in discussion here, if there is any uncertainty, if the discussion is still ongoing, "if it is preliminary consultation," as it is called with the Tax Administration, then there is no enforcement, so there are no fines and no post-tax charges for the client and contractor. That would be bullshit. It's not helping either. It would at least be socially disruptive. That's third grade. I'll come back later on to the acceleration of that handling. However, I do so in the third block. Then I have one group left. That is the group that has been given some clarity. But that clarity was disappointing. That clarity meant that out-of-work work doesn't go this way. That group seems limited in size, but is, as I said, more diverse than expected. I think this is the most painful part of the journey. It's about those benevolent parties that are now finding out that it wasn't okay all this time. In this Chamber, too, there are differences of opinion, but let me mention the examples that I thought were: I understand. Take the teacher in high school. It is scheduled, judged by the rector and is part of the regular program. In the story of the team it came back that there was a leader of an educational institution who said: this is very bad for us, because we had just decided not to employ the teaching staff anymore. It's complicated. I also mention the nurse in the hospital who replaces on a temporary basis. Is that an entrepreneur? I have teachers and nurses in this society very high. For me, they're at the top. I'm always called a schoolmaster myself, and I'm proud of it. But they're not entrepreneurs. This is not what the entrepreneurial tools have been developed for. Is the ICT user who sometimes goes to the same client for years and under the authority of the project leader of his client works an entrepreneur? Sometimes it's about rare expertise, not a bad word about it. After that, there can be another job with someone else. But is such a person an entrepreneur? The same goes for the driver on the boss' truck who drives a regular route. With this group the question is very much: is the Tax Administration's judgment correct? As I said, let us be patient, at least until the Boot Committee. The Tax Administration is testing everything with highly trained experts, according to my observation. I refer to the second reading by the UWV and the review by the Boot Committee. We all know what comes out of that. I'm sure they'll be a little too flexible here and a little too strict there. Then so do we. The Tax Administration will not be flawless, but at some point it is clear what is in accordance with the law and what is not. That fourth grade is complicated. What are we going to do about that? The conversation with this group is not over in many cases. Sometimes something can't, but the client and the contractor also have to turn a button in their head. We also see this happening in practice. If you set it up as a job, it'll soon become a job. If you set it up as an assignment, it'll soon become an assignment. You can take orders as an entrepreneur. You can bid on it. You can either refuse them or take them. An assignment that is formulated as something that you earn rather than as something that you perform is something quite different from something that you decorate as a job. That button has to be turned sometimes. My observation in the various branches is that these groups have not yet been discussed with the Tax Administration. Many people from the fourth grade, the group who received "no," will go to group two, in the vein of: this is how it can be done, this is a model agreement within which you can do so. Those are the groups, and I'm sure there are questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u151	I think so, too. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u152	In case we had missed that: it is a law that entered into force on 1 May and many clients who already state: we no longer hirezzp'ers, because we are afraid of the situation after 1 May 2017. The Secretary of State says, "I don't mention dates, I don't mention anything." We're seeing hiring right now. Well, that makes sense, because you sometimes provide such a lease for a few months. For example, if you have to solve an ICT problem with the Tax Administration, it usually doesn't work within a day or two. When does the Secretary of State think he has taken stock of these problems? Apparently, he's come across some serious problems. When will we have certainty about all the model contracts that have been applied for? I assume that the Secretary of State is about to promise that at least the contracts that have been approved will be made public. That's a date you're gonna need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u153	We're halfway there now. We knew this would be quite a solid journey, because we are going to give security in a very different way. That's why we have gotten into this and that happened in the First Chamber, quite frankly, just at the request of the CDA, which I thought was sensible and embraced, and took a very long time to prepare it, from 1 May to 1 May. So that implementation is now halfway through. The idea isn't that it's all right now, but large parts of thezzp'ers can get to work. This applies to large parts, but there is discussion about a remaining group, group three. The capacity is increasing. I am going to make commitments on this later, because we must, of course, get out of it as soon as possible. I suggest we keep an eye on it. I'll explain later, but there are other logical moments to insert the thermometer to see how fast it's going. No one thought we'd be out in one go. That's why we took a year, and we're halfway there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u154	That year wasn't just meant for the Tax Administration to get it in order. If you only find out on 28 April 2017 that your way of working is no longer accepted by the Tax Administration as of 1 May and you get a fine, you are immediately out of bread. If people have to hire you sooner, that hiring stop will be in place much earlier. So that transitional year wasn't just meant for the Tax Administration. It was there for the group that needed the time because it had to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u155	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u156	Now the Tax Administration seems to be using all year round and at the end we get a lot of stress and, in the meantime, out of assignments, because the risk is no longer assumed. Is the Secretary of State prepared to advance the end point at which the Tax Administration must be ready with all these assessments? Of course, that is not possible if a model contract is submitted on 1 April. The Tax Administration must have that policy clear before 1 January, so that people at least have those four months to adapt. You can't change your business model overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u157	That is true, and that is why there has been an opportunity to deliver model revenues from February, when the law was passed. I suggest that we do not make any black-and-white agreements about this, but simply look at the figures occasionally and see what is going on. Of course, there are a lot of entrepreneurs who have been talking for a while. There's a lot of stuff on the way. In that group three there are some who will soon be model agreements of the band. Then it becomes clear where it can be done, but also where it cannot be done. I think a lot of entrepreneurs already know where it can't be done. Sometimes you have a discussion about how it could be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u158	The more I hear what has to happen, the more I regret that the motion of the D66 senator Alexander Rinnooy Kan was not adopted in the Senate. That motion said, "Wait with this law until you know what you're getting into and don't catch up in case of doubt." The Secretary of State is right: we are not discussing this with his officials. We are always discussing political decisions that we take and which the Secretary of State is carrying out. In that sense, it's a good thing he's standing up for his people. But I really have a problem with hearing the Secretary of State describe all kinds of groups here, while I now see in practice that no model agreement can be concluded with broadcasters, because an editorial meeting is already 'authority'. With someone playing in an orchestra occasionally, there's a conductor, and that's a problem. The Secretary of State has mentioned many of these examples himself. Where "free replacement" is concerned, the example that still brings the least professional expertise shall be extended. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that there is a great deal of room for a different approach to all applications from, for example, broadcasters or theater? I honestly don't care if it's the DBA Act. I'm interested in solving it. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that in future we should also give entrepreneurship a place in the deliberations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u159	The interruptions really need to be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u160	I will come back to the question of entrepreneurship. I'm gonna take a look at the NPO. Let us not make a caricature of it. It's not like you're gonna end up in another bowl once you're at an editorial meeting. I object to it when it is presented so black and white. The broadcasters have four to five model agreements in place which have been skinned. I brought some examples. It depends on how you set it up. I acknowledge, in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg, that it is possible, of course, to work in broadcasting countries, in all kinds of different roles. It's about how you set it up. If you deliver it again as a product, then you're azzp'er, but you're in the editor's office and you're just reading the weather, then that's something else. The role of the so-called camera journalist can be set up in two ways. The roles of a lot of these groups I have the overviews with me are set in different ways. Sometimes the button needs to be turned, but in some cases it is not possible either. The outcome will be irrevocable that some things cannot. Some spokesmen will say that in their political opinion it is an entrepreneur, but then we do not have a discussion about the DBA. Then the discussion is about something else. I also sometimes think that I would have said it differently myself, but then I will be put back in my place by the inspector. It will come out that some things can't, that other things can only be done in a certain way and that other things often can. That will be the outcome. Let us not speak in black and white images. Let's give this a little time. It's all set in motion. Some things are complicated. The way in which broadcasters operate was not at all according to the current law. It'll take some getting used to. We need a switch. It wasn't all right. The idea is to fix it. Sometimes it falls one way and sometimes the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u161	We need to change the rules when people who see the Secretary of State and I as entrepreneurs get into trouble. I see that happening in a lot of sectors. I have a specific question. During the legal process, the Secretary of State promised that everyone could make a model agreement; customisation. We are now getting signals that a great deal is being rejected and that many people are being referred to sector agreements. That's often coordinated with unions. Can the Secretary of State repeat here that any client who wishes to have a model agreement reviewed will also be given that opportunity? I am shocked by the Secretary of State's texts, which, of course, could not do so anymore, when he promised in the course of the House's proceedings that it would always be possible. I do not want to be bound by the sectoral agreements, especially because trade unions have a strong interest in this. Unfortunately, these are not always the friends of independent entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u162	Mr Van Weyenberg is such a skilful debater that he does not need to put words in my mouth. Anyone who wants security from the Tax Office in advance on a specific model agreement will get it. I have said that this is very often not necessary and let us see it as an advantage. I'll come back to that later. I'll go with "the steps forward" and "the what?" Let's get back to it. I would like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg that I am going to devote some passages to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u163	The Secretary of State will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u164	I know, but the Secretary of State said that he didn't say this and that I put words in his mouth. I wouldn't dare. I quote: Let us be honest, if every entrepreneur is going to make his model agreement that we are going to have to judge, we have a far too big job. In the explanatory memorandum, it was still agreed that an individual client could submit an agreement to the Tax Administration. That's what I meant. That is not putting words in the mouth but quoting the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u165	The letter does not deny at all that anyone who submits an agreement to the Tax Administration is served. The Tax Administration is a service organization and gives that security in advance. In the next block, I will explain why it would be very unwise for us all to do so, especially for the entrepreneurs themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u166	If you do it then, chances are you're gonna get zero on the rehearsal. 4,500 contracts have been filed. Half of them still have to be treated, but out of half of them that have been treated, 1,000 have been rejected. Can the Secretary of State give me an insight into those 1,033 contracts that have been rejected? On what grounds have they been rejected? My second question concerns the following. The Secretary of State began by saying that it was a definition issue. He talked about the law and said: we have to define what an entrepreneur is and what an employee is, so someone with an employment relationship. But I think there's a loophole in the law. There's got to be a category in between. This category should include people who are not entrepreneurs, but who are not employees either. As an example, I would like to mention the interim manager, the professional who is being posted or who is detaching himself, the ICT expert in a very specific field and who hires you if you have a problem. Such people are not entrepreneurs within the meaning of the law, but they are not employees either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u167	I find it very interesting and also stimulating to philosophize about what could be and what the world could look like and so on. I'd like to talk about that outside this room once. But here's what we need to realize. It comes out a little careless, but I'd like to turn it up one little bit. We have a law here. Implementing the law is not only the highest good for me, but that law is also the only guideline for the Tax Administration. If the tax authorities are going to do something else because they think the social views sister or something, or because Mr Van Dijck does this or that, then we have a big problem in this country. So we just have to comply with the law here. I don't deal with labour law. It is not before us at all and it is not. We are dealing here with an organisation that, in cooperation with the UWV, tested by a committee, gives very precise interpretation of the law. Mr Van Dijck believes that there should be other possibilities. I will take note of that, but we are talking here about the progress report of an organisation that is implementing the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u168	The law, the law... We are the legislative power here. It's up to us to decide what's in that law. We all made up the DBA law here, too. If it turns out that it is not enough because it facilitates false self-employment and frustrates the real independence of the professionals, then we must intervene. The Secretary of State may then sit back and say: yes, the law is the law and we will abide by it. But what is he? Is he Secretary of State or is he Director of the IRS? The latter just abides by the law, and the first is legislator and repairs things when they're wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u169	We are talking here about the progress report in which the Tax Administration is talking about the implementation of something that is now the law. Of course, Mr Van Dijck can make changes to the law. But I would just like to say that the law that Mr Van Dijck is talking about is not DBA. There is not one rule in the law that comes from the DBA. Because the DBA just took something away. Yes, I believe it says the progress report after three years, by Mr Van Weyenberg. For the rest, there is no letter in the current law that comes from the DBA. The law referred to by Mr Van Dijck consists of the Civil Code and the very large stack of recent case law. That's what I've got to live for. I have no choice but to speak of that law with respect. If the Chamber in this room changes that law, I'll live like that. However, I am accountable here for how I implement the Court's law. In doing so, I adhere strictly to that law, with all the guarantees surrounding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr Bashir also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u171	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u172	Would you like to use a second interruption, Mr Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u173	Yeah, you do that. 'Cause I'm almost bouncing here. I hear the Secretary of State say that I am only here to answer for how I implement your law. Now he's making it our law. It's your law, Secretary of State. You presented them to the Chamber under false pretences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u174	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u175	No, listen. You have said that this fights false self-employment and gives more certainty. But what do we see? It is uncertainty trump card and false self-employment is facilitated. Because the cleaning lady is suddenly an entrepreneur when she says, "If I can't, the neighbor comes."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u176	That is absolutely not in the DBA Act; that has nothing to do with the DBA Act. It only abolished the VAR declaration. The assessment of the model contracts is a service of the Tax Administration in various areas, a ruling. But none of that has anything to do with the DBA Act. Labour law and case law have not changed, they are still the same. Now that enforcement is possible, I have to enforce the law as it is. I take note of the different views and opinions on the law. I listen to that with the greatest respect, but I can't change it now. I stand here for the implementation of the law, as the law is now and the Civil Code and case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u177	The Secretary of State notes that there are major gaps, such as that blanket of the VAR that was pulled away. Now with the DBA, he also finds out everything. The law says that you are in employment when there is a wage, an employer's authority and if you cannot be replaced personally. If one of the three isn't right, especially the last one... but that's the whole problem of bogus self-employment. That's why these postmen are all bogus self-employed. They can tell their boss if I can't, my wife will do the mail. That makes him an entrepreneur. This Secretary of State then says: So be it, it is the law. I don't do false self-employment because it's the law. But then he has to say: this is not right, we have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u178	Now there is gradually convergence, because I am slowly beginning to agree with Mr Van Dijck. He's quoting the Civil Code. That's right, because that's the basis. There's a whole stack of case law in there, so it's a little more nuanced. But we obviously agree that it should not only be on paper, but also in practice. If replaceability is "fake replaceability," action must be taken against it. With the expiry of the VAR this becomes possible for the first time. Mr Van Dijck and I are therefore in complete agreement. It can happen that there is something on paper that is actually not being respected at all. Then there is false self-employment. I think we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u179	[[Sentence could not be parsed: De wet is zoals die is.]] When we dealt with the bill, the PVV wasn't even there. However, we are now talking about implementation. Turns out what? More than 4,000 contracts have been submitted and nearly 10% have been approved. First of all, the question is why so many contracts have to be submitted. Apparently, the contracts on the Tax Administration website are not sufficient. And why is handling the contracts by the Tax Administration taking so long? What's not going well in there? That is, after all, the implementation. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u180	Yeah, I was just about to. When the law was passed, the Tax Administration had to set up the assessment model contracts department from scratch. The whole idea of assessing employment relationships was, with the inability the VAR gave us, almost no more. So we've set up a professional department of assessment model contracts from the ground up, with specialists. There are now 40, but that was much less in the beginning. That number is growing and slowly professionalizing the Tax Administration. It's true that the IRS had to get into this too. This also applies to companies. In the beginning it was a lot of work, because we all got model agreements that really didn't include entrepreneurship. This process is going on; professionalisation is going on in all kinds of markets. I told you that if this professionalization is going on, I'm not gonna steer it on lead time. Because then it is dealt with digitally: oh, this is not enough, this is not enough and that is not enough. It's easy, but it's not gonna help anybody. I think that many of the proposers of such a model contract have no complaints about the lead time either, because they are also part of the thinking and the professionalisation process. As a result, they also get a few weeks to think about it and come back with something. But that's entirely my fault. That's not up to the IRS. I don't want to hear a bad word about that. It would be much easier for the people sitting there to just answer digitally. They're not people like that, as I described them, but it would be much easier. That's why the lead time is the way it is. In the beginning, we first focused on ten general agreements. Those ten apply to all situations where there are no special branch things. A number of sectoral agreements are also being worked on. Two thirds of the sectoral agreements submitted have now been assessed. There are 43 on the site. All sectoral agreements are on the site, I say to Mr Omtzigt. So a sector can make use of that. In general, the individual agreements are not on the site. The IRS always asks permission to put them on the site. In some cases this is agreed, but in others it is objected to, because the business model is considered to be on the streets. That is exactly in line with the commitments in the Second and First Chambers on public access. In the meantime, there are about 500 individual agreements and there are still quite a few. The remaining agreements are by a large majority, more than 90%, not sectoral agreements but individual agreements. So we have given priority to the sectoral agreements, because more people can make use of them. Of the generation that was submitted before August 1st, there was a WOB request and then numbers came out: 1,964 still had to be assessed, I believe, and of which 600 have been handled by now, the ratio was approved versus rejected one state to two. So there was twice as much rejected as approved. In the generation submitted after 1 August, the ratio is the other way around. There is therefore more approval than rejection. This is because market players themselves handle it smarter and understand what is happening. They have made use of the guidance and information provided by the Tax Administration. Slowly the quality goes up. We must move forward, not more stringent than before and not more stringent than the law, but precisely in accordance with the law. That means there's got to be people. The capacity that is now built up must be from 40 to 60. The remaining sectoral agreements should be given priority so that we have a covering system as soon as possible. Mr Van Weyenberg raised the question which I asked myself and which the Tax Administration has also asked itself: are all these individual model contracts now necessary? If you hear the specialists about this, to what extent does this give extra certainty, are all these discussions worth it, or could this party have worked with a sectoral agreement? If so, the judgment is as follows. That is the opinion of the people who work with it, the specialists. I am expressing a borrowed opinion that I find very credible. Although many individual agreements have resulted in many calls, they have not led to additional certainty. It could also have been done with a sectoral agreement. Shoot through in detail, which I can imagine, after all, you're thinking, "Oh dear, what's going on?" Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, My invitation to clients and entrepreneurs is therefore: use what is on the site. After all, if you stick to that, you get no fines and no post-tax. This applies to the client and also to the contractor. So a lot of these things don't make sense. That is also the opinion of VNO, which I sometimes speak about, and of FNV. They too try to say through their channels that there is no point in shooting through in detail. We can save ourselves a lot of administrative burdens. We can get to work faster and make use of the security there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u181	In the meantime, have you completed this block as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u182	In the block "how to proceed?" This is my first point, but I see several people standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u183	Mr Bashir was interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u184	The uncertainty now hanging over the market has to do with the fact that many contracts are rejected, but also with the lead time. It takes a long time for people to know where they are; people complain about it. According to the Secretary of State, when will we be back? When are we no longer behind on the contracts that still have to be dealt with, but are we just on schedule?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u185	The Tax Office is only one of the parties to the preliminary consultation. Clients and contractors should also be able to find each other in such an agreement. The agreement is, of course, submitted in principle by the market players themselves and not by the Tax Administration. It is therefore difficult to predict, but I think that in advance we should focus on the sectoral agreements, on a covering system of sectoral agreements. We should not stare blindly at a lot of those individual agreements. Anyone who asks us to approve an individual agreement will be served. That may indeed have a certain lead time. I'm increasing capacity. I have already made commitments about everyone who is still in that pre-consultation when enforcement begins. My appeal to the market players, as well as those of, for example, VNO, is to focus as much as possible on the sectoral agreements that exist. That's starting to be quite a covering system. A lot of entrepreneurs can work with that. Communication is also aimed at this. It is important to make use of what is there and to obtain certainty from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u186	The second interruption, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u187	We all understand that the IRS is dealing with a start-up phase. The organization needs to get in a little bit. Officials need to be consulted. The Secretary of State says he's gonna make sure the capacity is increased. It would be good to agree here that we should do everything possible, for example, to be present on 1 December. This also includes the occasional call from the Tax Administration and saying: if you adjust this point a little bit, then it's okay; then we can speed up a bit. Can the Secretary of State just promise to do that? December 1st is a good date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u188	I am very grateful for the operational suggestions. Some things can indeed be done by telephone; we will certainly use them. Maybe I should put it another way: I find it complicated to make commitments about model contracts that the Tax Administration does not make itself. In the end, it is the market players who do that. I want to do it differently, but I'll get to that. We will, of course, have the results of the review by the Boot Committee. It seems to me appropriate to have it accompanied by an overview showing where we stand. Then the Chamber is the evaluator. Room's checking up on me. She can find what she wants, but I will give her the figures showing where we stand with regard to the sectoral, individual and general agreements. Well, that's for judgment. The Chamber will know what's already there, what's on the site, and what's left. Then we can have this conversation again and I await Mr Bashir's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u189	The Secretary of State says that everyone is asked if that agreement can be published. I get a lot of signals that companies orzzp'ers don't want anything but to be published, but that the Tax Administration refuses to publish. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say here that an agreement is actually published when a company, azzp'er or a group of people says it has been approved and may be published?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u190	This is my biggest surprise in this treatment. I'm fighting for disclosure. I would like to say once again that I will call on the Tax Administration to make as much public as possible. The march order of the board of the Tax Administration is to ensure that everyone is asked whether there are any objections and to publish the relevant agreement if this is not the case. I think this is a very important point. I think it is an extremely astonishing observation by Mr Omtzigt, but he will have his sources. I'm going after that. This is really the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u191	Before you go any further, I'd like to know how much longer you think you'll need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u192	I'm not going to be much longer. I still have a number of measures to take. I also have general questions. Some of them have been repeated. I'll move on as soon as I can. I come to a second point on which I wrote a few things in the letter, but on which several questions have been asked. We are in the process of assessing labour relations here. Sometimes it comes out that it is possible, but that it is not yet known. Sometimes it comes out that things can't be done or that they can do it in another way. All this has labour market effects. I've joined forces with the Minister of SZW. We have said that we want to assess labour market effects. I want to know, therefore, I am also asking for those reports where there is excessive fear of clients. There are many cases for which the model agreements exist, but the zzp'er bumps into a wall and meets clients who are hesitant. I want to hear those things. That's what communication is aimed at. This is the subject of discussions with industry associations. This is an answer to Mr Ziegs's question and we are invited because we do not want it. Where there is clarity, we must use that clarity. For example, people are asked to report what happens to people who discover that it is really not possible to leave employment and that there is simply an employment relationship. This may be the case with that history teacher, but also involve all kinds of groups in industries. We haven't exactly got that on the retina yet. That's bad. I have agreed with the Minister of SZW that, as soon as we get signals about it, we will go in and see what can be done about it. This concerns labour market effects. It's not in itself about a second opinion. The Boat Committee, UWV and so on already give it. It's not about a helpdesk either, because we have an entire account team standing by. It says on the site how to contact the Tax Office. It is not a question of a complaint counter either, because there is already a procedure for complaints. It's really about the labour market effects. We have to use this period, but also the period after, I imagine, to see where it pinches. 'Cause that can happen. It may be that the law says this, but the labour market has said that so far and that there is a friction there. That's what I want to know. I'm going to invite industry organisations and the like to report these things, because that's what we need to do. The third point concerns the Boot Committee, which is going to look very closely at this. One half of the First Chamber thought, "They're getting too flexible." The other half thought, "They're getting too strict." I'm sure things come out of there. Probably not everything is perfect. The Boot Committee consists of very learned, very independent and stubborn people, so I'm sure she's going to say a few other things as well. You can wait for it. After all, academics are out of control. The committee thinks it will be done in December. I asked her to do so in such a way that I could give some kind of administrative response to the report in which I reported to the Chamber what I would like to do with the review. I aim to send that to the Chamber before Christmas, so that we know what the expert thinks of the review by the IRS and UWV. That is why I have been asked to make a statement to Mr Bashir on the assessment of the model contracts. I would also like to repeat my commitments as follows, just to be sure. Where there is no clarity, there is no enforcement. As a result, no fines and no post-charges are imposed, neither on the client nor on the contractor. Those who comply with the terms of the model contract, even if they are the sectoral ones, even if you haven't manufactured something yourself but you have taken it off the site, I call the benevolent entrepreneurs. For them there are no fines and no aftercharges, not for the client and not for the contractor. I'll put that on the record, too. Furthermore, I have a very full table because I am sitting at the table with all these sectors, not only with those who are stirring in the media but also with those who do not, to hear what is going on, how things are going and what can be done better. I will also hear from the point of contact where the problems lie. In the meantime, that is my daily work; my agenda is full of it. This leads me to another interim report. It is up to the Chamber to decide whether it wants to hold a debate on it. In this next interim report I report the progress of the model agreements, the insights we get from the hotline, possibly the insights into how those groups move, and the results of the review. I hope to be able to send it to the Chamber in December. Then I have all sorts of loose questions. I think I've had a lot of them, but not all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u193	At some point it was about the effect on the functioning of the labour market. The Secretary of State said there are no post-taxes if there is no clarity, et cetera. Does this mean that entrepreneurs who are going to hire are actually protected? Does that also apply to the mediators who ensure thatzzp'ers can be hired?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u194	Sorry, I don't understand the question exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u195	The shorter the question, the clearer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u196	This was very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u197	Sorry, it's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u198	Will there also be a safeguard for the clients ofzzp'ers and for their mediators? Do these mediators also have immunity when a model contract has been approved for azzp'er, so that they can never get into trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u199	The word "freedom" was just hanging from the VAR. Protection is a sign that says "100 km/h and on the coming sections there is no control." That's immunity. Safeguard means you'll never get a fine or a post-tax, even if you don't stick to the law at all and you know it. We're talking about security in advance. That is the tradition of the Dutch Tax Administration, which we also see in rulings. There's pre-consultation, you're told what's possible and what can't be done. If you stick to that, you're rid of fines and post-taxes, but a waiver like the VAR knew, which meant that you were allowed to do anything that Our Lord had forbidden, but that you never received a post-tax, we don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u200	As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue of safeguard. Warranty is a surety in advance to give clients the opportunity to hirezzp'ers. If there is such clarity, they do not have those risks and they are protected from these charges. That goes for the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u201	It's not a safeguard, it's a guarantee in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u202	Right. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u204	I have a very specific question. The point is that the Secretary of State has been arguing for an hour that he is dealing with the laws that exist and that he is trying to respect them properly. That's true. That is why I also want to amend the law, with the aim of increasing the weight of entrepreneurship. I keep wrestling with one point. According to the DBA review framework, it is important for the assessment of employment relations agreements to consider that an authority relationship can be reasonably excluded or in accordance with its implementation. The Civil Code states that a contractor must always comply with timely and responsible instructions regarding the performance of the contract. The latter will be reviewed in the event of a free replacement. In my opinion, this is a large area, but if there is no substitute, it will be tested for the exclusion of any kind of relationship of authority. That doesn't fit with the Civil Code, does it? It states that any kind of control should be reasonably possible in the case of a contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u205	Some form of control can, there are also all kinds of precise provisions for that. The manual DBA, which Mr Van Weyenberg draws from, has been reviewed by the Boot Committee prior to this whole exercise and complies with the latest case law. It is a little too late for Mr Van Weyenberg to discuss labour law through me now with Professor Boot, when we are actually talking about the progress of implementation. I am prepared to report on this in writing, but let us not have that in-depth labour law debate here, because that is what the lecture hall is more suitable for. I will answer a specific question on this in writing, but then it will be a labour law discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u206	It is one of the key points of this debate. It is precisely because there is no free replacement that a very strict assessment of the relationship of authority is carried out, that many clients are now stuck with the agreements or miss them. I would specifically ask the Secretary of State to carry out a non-free replacement test in the same way as free replacement. Then we will put an end to the fact that we are now stricter with an expert. If a company hires Mr Wiebes because he has certain expertise, the rules are stricter than when it is said "let someone come and do something." That's really weird. I really want to call on the Secretary of State to take a good look at this point. He may return to that in writing. I really have the impression that we are strict with entrepreneurs and real professionals, while, in PostNL's example, we offer a lot of space and I still wonder if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u207	This may indeed lend itself to a letter. I am also getting a little more excited about it now, because it is linked to the point about which there is an important concern in this Chamber. It also points to the fact that things are laid down in the law in a certain way and that the Tax Administration must abide by it. I will give you a letter on this subject with a further explanation. I see this as a real concern. I'm back on board with Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u208	That's good, because I think there's a big problem in practice. The Secretary of State has to check against the law. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u209	Yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u210	I hope the Secretary of State also wants to see if there's any need to change that law. This is also a role of both the Cabinet and the Chamber. If the Secretary of State finds that it is going badly, I am of course happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u211	I'll have coffee with the Minister of SZW. I have a whole bunch of things on my bike that are about the execution. I do not think we are changing the labour legislation, which has evolved into what it is in a hundred years, in a curse and a sigh at 10:10 p.m. I would like to address a number of important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u212	Before you continue, Mr. Tony van Dijck. His last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u213	A large group, perhaps 70% or 80%, is clearly an entrepreneur. Back in the day, until May 1st, those entrepreneurs just had a VAR in their pockets. Was the client insecure? Is this okay? They then showed the VAR to any order they carried out, to any client. Then it was a go and they had work. Now all these clients are uncertain, including those 80%, with the large group of perhaps 700,000 or 800,000 people who are obviously entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u214	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u215	Is it an idea to give that group of people, who are obviously entrepreneurs and who used to have a VAR to take away that piece of uncertainty from clients, something of a statement? Then you can hire them with peace of mind for a job without getting fines or getting beaten up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u216	That is exactly what we have the model contracts for. Those people should be able to see on the site that they have nothing to fear at all. There is still a lot of communication work to be done, but we are of course in complete agreement on this. If you can find your profile and your employment relationship on the site and you can see that nothing is going on, then you should also dare to assume it. That is not yet the case with everyone. Mr Van Dijck is right about that. That is what we must stress. I don't feel like spreading hundreds of thousands of statements again and putting a paper machine to work, but it's one of the cruces. This is just one of those points where you say: that must be improved. There are hundreds of thousands of zzp'ers who can just get to work. Indeed, there are perhaps 800 000 people who do not feel that way in one way or another. There's work there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u217	There's still work to be done, but that's not up to thosezzp'ers. They want to work, but now they're running into a wall with clients. Those clients doubt, are insecure and wonder what they are getting themselves into. I would like to give a few examples to the Secretary of State. Suppose you're an interim manager and you're doing a one-year reorganisation job at a company. Are you an entrepreneur or are you an employee? I'm also thinking of the driver the Secretary of State just mentioned. That's nice when he drives the boss' car, but what if that driver comes in his own car with his own truck? If he says he's transporting as azzp'er, is he an employer or an employee? If the plasterer works for a private individual, it is obvious, but let's say he does standard plastering jobs for a contractor. Is he an employee or a self-employed person? I'd like to have clarity about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u218	This is precisely what model agreements are meant for: for type of driver A, for type of driver B, for plasterer A and for plasterer B. It is not an agreement specific to plasterers, for example, but there will be agreements for construction. We're also in the middle of transport. That is exactly what we must do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u219	You're going to round off, because it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u220	Yes. I have received a very complicated question from Mr Van Weyenberg. He asked whether we could not simply use the concept of self-employment as some kind of advance security. We then find that a person is a self-employed person according to the definition, and we say that there is an exception to the tax on wages. Can I see his question like that? I'm trying to express what he's saying, because it's a core question. This means that we must assess all future employment relationships of thezzp'er in advance and have thezzp'er fill out what he all meets in all these employment relationships. The fact that we want to give him that assurance is one thing if he abides by it, but the final crux lies with the client, as we have seen in this debate. He also wants to have certainty. It does not affect all these future employment relationships, so it must have a safeguard. It's got to be unconditional for him. This is exactly the VAR wuo. The product that Mr Van Weyenberg is asking for is exactly the thing that we have just abolished. What Mr Van Weyenberg is asking for will inevitably lead to the barrier's fence. That is not bad in cases where it is evidently not bad, but in other cases it is. I would also like to make a comment on the backs of Mr Ziengs. I invite him to print this in colour, because then he can see that the yellow marked relevant passages do not yield A4's yet. I do not think there is even one model agreement whose relevant passages cover more than one A4. I invite Mr Ziengs to say with me that one A4's still possible. I think Mr Ziengs and I are A4's. Mr Ziengs has also asked a number of other questions. I'm gonna take the most important one out. He asks whether we can not say that there is an entrepreneur automatically from the point of view of situations which are limited to a number of hours, a duration or a rate. That would then amount to some sort of flat-rate approach, I say it in my own words, but then I am once again stuck to my elbows in labour law. It's not my call, but it's a relevant question. I have received this question several times; I will contact my colleague on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u221	I have to be a little tough on you, too. I would ask you to respond very briefly to the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u222	I think I've run out of questions. Mrs Vos asked if we would start with the medical specialists and the parcel delivery companies. It is good practice that the Chamber or the Secretary of State do not set the enforcement priorities, so I cannot guarantee that we will be the first to continue with the medical specialists or the parcel delivery companies. The parcel delivery companies are very obvious as a sector where we occasionally look, but we start with the most risky clients. On May 1st we will certainly start with the most malicious clients, who are already in the roledex of the Tax Administration and are competing unfairly. Of course, we'll start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u223	I don't know if the Secretary of State is at the end of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u224	I have some small things, but I think I might be a long way. Mr Omtzigt would like to know how manyzzp'ers work at the Tax Office and I have to say something about the Hamer motion on payroll.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u225	I stayed in my seat for a long time because I hoped that a crucial question would be answered in this debate. What does thezzp'er, who is now in uncertainty, know at the end of this debate? Does he know if the client where he often works will soon have a model agreement? Does he know if he'll be signed next year? Has all this uncertainty been removed now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u226	What he knows is that we're moving towards an undercover system as soon as possible. He also knows that he can ask for individual agreements, but that this is often not necessary and that he can already work with a rapidly growing system of model agreements in various sectors. He also knows that there will be no fines or post-taxes for him if there is any pre-consultation on any date. He knows that, so that's for sure. But he also knows we're in a transition phase. And he also knows that a lot can be done, albeit sometimes in a different way, and that some things can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u227	I'm gonna get a little more concrete now. Let the Secretary of State realize that this is an example, because these people know how to look for the media, because they work for the media themselves. They're dealing with a client. There is a ping-pong game going on between the client and the Tax Administration about the model contract. Thosezzp'ers do not know whether they will be able to work with an approved model agreement. Thosezzp'ers don't have much influence on that either, because that has to do with the discussion between the client and the Tax Administration. What specific answer does the Secretary of State give them? So let's take this group as an example. Do these people know, in a month's time, whether they will be able to work on the same broadcasting or the same programmes next year as in the last 20 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u228	If it's up to me, we'll get out of there soon. There are four or five model agreements on the way, but I'm not the only one who determines this. If the broadcasters continue to insist on things that are not legally possible, and sometimes obviously not, then we will not get together. I've asked the tax authorities to sit in the relief booth and tell me what they can do. These people are coming to my table, too. Then we'll see how we can pull the raft. However, it must come from all sides, because the Tax Administration cannot and cannot approve things that the law simply cannot. As far as I am concerned, the gas is going on; and with the institution that there is a lot that can be done, that sometimes it will have to be done in a different way than before, and that some things cannot. As far as I am concerned, there will be clarity as soon as possible, but that will require something from all parties. In fact, I am convinced that we will soon be able to put our feet behind it, but I cannot make predictions, because I do not have this in my hand alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u229	In my view, this illustrates exactly the problem in this whole discussion. There is a discussion going on between the client and the Tax Administration. Thezzp'ers who worked there for years fall between shore and ship. This concerns not only broadcasting, but also, for example, construction or any other sector. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that he is going to make sure that the benevolentzzp'er is not going to fall between shore and ship between now and about 31 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u230	I'd like to do anything about that. The same applies to construction. I found that, on the part of the clients, the parties sometimes disagreed. In every sector, the problem is different. The IRS can't break iron with its hands, and it doesn't affect everything. I think I have made it clear that we need to get to a covering system as soon as possible, including in the broadcasting sector. But again, we will not be rid of all the disappointments, because it will turn out that one part cannot and that one part has to be changed. It's my wish to get out of here as soon as possible. The establishment of the Tax Administration is mainly that he says not only what can't, but also what can. In the sectors in which parties are admissible, we have already come to an end. In sectors where it is more difficult, where practices that are very far from the law have grown, this is more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u231	In that case, I would like to have an overview of the sectors where it is infinitely difficult. Because I don't have much of a view on that anymore. I do not need to know until points and commas which companies are doing well and which are not doing well, but if there are sectors where a kind of vague whole is about to arise that will make thezzp'ers suffer, then I would like to hear from the Secretary of State which sectors they are. The Secretary of State can do that in writing; it doesn't necessarily have to be done tonight. So we can keep the finger on the wrist. After all, I am fitting in with the fact that thezzp'ers are going to suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u232	I like Mrs Schouten's fanaticism. There are very intensive conversations with the construction and the broadcasters. There are a few sectors where efforts are being made to make progress in the short term. My proposal is to send that for Christmas. Then we have a more complete picture of it. In this letter I already gave an overview. The annex to the letter gives an overview of these branches. In this you can read that it has not yet come off the ground in some sectors. Give it a few weeks more lead time, then I'll make a new overview of it. I will send that to the Chamber with the package I promised before December. Then we can have a new discussion about it. Maybe it's not that bad, maybe it's disappointing; then we'll have another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u233	I would ask Members to put brief questions. There is also a second term. If the first term is too long, I'll really stick to a second term of 1 minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u234	I also hope that the Secretary of State will not give the trade unions the key to the model agreements. While we are debating here, I see emails from cheerful employees of the FNV who write: finally clean ship with thezzp'er! I hope that the Secretary of State, for example in construction, will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u235	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u236	I hear the Secretary of State say all the time in this debate that he must uphold the law. He just mentioned my example and said: that is the VAR-wuo (statement of employment relationship profit from enterprise). However, that is not the VAR-wuo at all. The only difference that is in favor of D66 is that you will check in advance. That's the big difference. Is the Secretary of State prepared, in addition to implementing the law as it is now, to continue to consider where the law should be changed? This seems to be a taboo for the Secretary of State, who, with D66, wants to ensure that what he and I find entrepreneurs can continue to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u237	I am not here from the point of view of labour law. I can't talk about it with much authority either, so I'm gonna keep a little distance from that. Mr Van Weyenberg knows a lot more about labour law from his work history; I do not know that for a moment. I'm really here for enforcement. I understand that all kinds of spokesmen have all kinds of desires, sometimes contradictory ones, to make things that do not fit in with the current law possible. I understand that, but let us work towards December and make an overview of what is happening. Then we'd better see what's possible and what's not possible. It is up to parliamentarians to have views on this or even to ask questions about it or to make requests to the cabinet. Let's give it a chance. We're halfway through and no further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u238	The law has been in force for six months. My point is that I call on the Secretary of State to do fine with the Cabinet, then I make it "the Cabinet" instead of "the Secretary of State" to continue to look at where laws have to be changed. I assume that this VVD Secretary of State shares the view of D66 Chamber members that people who are independent entrepreneurs should not suffer from what is happening now. That's why I'm appealing to look at the law creatively. I am fine with Minister Asscher being involved, but we are here today with Secretary of State Wiebes of the VVD. Come on, don't be modest!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u239	Very briefly, I have asked two questions in my speech and have not heard an answer to them. My first question concerned the rigid manual for the DBA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u240	I think I answered that question. I did so in response to an intervention by Mr Van Weyenberg. I have therefore failed Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u241	That may be so, but at least I have not heard that answer. My second question was whether the definition of authority could be changed. That's the same question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u242	That is actually the same question as Mr Van Weyenberg: the outcome is not satisfactory in all cases for every spokesman, so can we not change the law? To this end, my answer is: I am not here about the amendment of the law, but about the implementation of the law as it is now. We can't just turn labour law upside down at 10:30. I can't take it off in a note either. It is an institution that has grown in 100 years. I'd like to handle that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u243	The answer is clear, but I am concerned that this should be taken into account in the consultations which the Secretary of State has promised to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u244	I think I've come a long way with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u245	I had just received a pre-announcement of two issues that were still to be discussed. A lot of things weren't there either. The Secretary of State just said that. There is also a question from D66. I had asked, in my reply to Mr Van Weyenberg's words, whether the NPO and so on were also the associations ofzzp'ers, such as PZO (Platform Self-employed Entrepreneurs) and FLA (FreeLancers Association). I think that would be a good thing if model agreements were to be drawn up. I also asked a question about the payroll. Can it be excluded that taxpayers' money goes to payrolls? I have asked two more questions, also in relation to the review we will have in December. Very important is that we know how manyzzp'ers are not affected by it now and how manyzzp'ers are affected by it. Perhaps following on from what Mrs Schouten has just asked about sectors, I am curious about the numbers. I also asked a question about the 55-year-old construction worker. Will the Secretary of State go in consultation with Bouwend Nederland?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u246	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u247	These are specific questions, and I think they can be answered easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u248	The numbers are extremely complicated. I will try to be more qualitative, but more precise about the size of the various groups and where and in which sectors the bottlenecks are. I cannot, of course, say as much on this side about whether a payroller could be constructed in the same way as service providers. As an employed person, they may choose to remain flexible and work for a service provider working for different contracts. That's not up to me. It's not up to the Empire; I can't say much about that. When it comes to bona fide parties that pay social security contributions, which are decent employers and enable people to work for different clients, there is not much against it. If it's people who don't take it very closely with the law, then one of our inspections goes straight to it, of course. That could be the SZW inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u249	The most important thing is that we give taxpayers' money to the NPO. I fully agree with that, but doesn't the Secretary of State also consider that tax money should not partially disappear in the pockets of payrollers? That doesn't have to be necessary, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u250	Let us say that it seems unnecessary to me to work through a service provider or any intermediary if someone always works for the same organisation. Then people can get to work at such an organization themselves. Once again, I am reluctant to judge it, because it is ultimately up to market players themselves. Even the NPO is a market player for me. Mrs Vos had a question about the mailman and then spoke about the one who falls out of the boat. It's about the one who's beenzzp'er so far and is now out of the boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u251	The construction worker!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u252	That's what I want to learn from that hotline. Those are friction cases. In construction it happens to be quite possible to work out of employment in all kinds of ways, but if it is not possible in a specific case and there are bottlenecks, we need to hear it through the hotline and I have to get on with it with the Minister of SZW. That's what I've had the big questions about. If I've forgotten the little one, I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u253	Thank you. We're moving on to the second term of office. I call Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u254	Mr. Chairman. I have seen a somewhat different Secretary of State here than in Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u255	If you have many motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u256	Sure. I'm gonna say three sentences. But I still have the feeling that manyzzp'ers who follow this debate have not removed their concerns or their clients. I have four motions on the assumption that this law is there, although my group did not support it in the Senate either. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that manyzzp'ers are currently not getting commands;]] [[Whereas the problems must be resolved as quickly as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to send a progress report on 1 November;]] [[also invites the Government to send the final report of the Boot Commission and a report on the state of play of the DBA Act by 12 December at the latest, and at that time to take a decision on the progress of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Administration is more stringent than is necessary under legislation when giving advance security model contracts;]] [[calls on the Government to use the full scope of the law in the review of model agreements and to bring the DBA review framework into line with this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[Whereas the risk of after-taxation also prevents clients from hiringzzp'ers;]] [[invites the Government not to impose any post-taxes, unless the client is clearly not of good will,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bashir, Mr Schouten and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-22]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bashir, Mr Schouten and Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u257	Finally, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas real entrepreneurs should not experience obstacles to enterprising;]] [[calls on the Government to explore how real entrepreneurs can be guaranteed in advance through a test on entrepreneurship without using model agreements, and to inform the Chamber about this before the ceremony,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u258	I call on the Secretary of State to turn half and not go astray.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u259	I now give the floor to Mr Bashir instead of Mr Omtzig.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u260	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thanks also to Mr Bashir. We're not there yet with the solutions. That is why we have wholeheartedly supported Mr Van Weyenberg's motion to have clarity in mid-December. I'm still waiting for an overview of how thezzp'ers work at the Tax Office. Written questions have also been asked about this. I am still waiting for the commitment that the rule of thumb will become public over time and will also be a policy rule. The Boot Committee reviewed the DBA hand-off on authority. I would like that review to be made public as well, because it already existed before the Boot Committee. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers thatzzp's should be able to report problems without the risk that the Tax Administration may carry out an audit on the basis of the notification;]] [[calls on the Government to place the hotline with the Boot Commission and to have it passed on anonymously to the Government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u261	It is obvious, it is the first reporting point of the Tax Administration where you have to enter the bsn number. So I think that's quite something. My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the concept of "personal work" means that simple work can easily be converted into a model contract, since the contractor may arrange for replacement;]] [[calls on the Government to redefine the concept of "personal work" and to indicate to what extent this is a distinguishing criterion for the distinction between paid and self-employed work and to ensure that very simple work does not lead to false self-employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u262	I also have a more structural solution that is really about employer and employeeship. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is often very unattractive for employers to employ people, inter alia by requiring two years' pay in the event of illness;]] [[noting that it has recently been found that labour legislation in the Netherlands has led to much more flexible industrial relations than in the neighbouring countries;]] [[calls on the Government to send a plan of concrete action points to the Chamber by 10 January to make permanent employment more attractive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u263	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is undesirable for self-employed persons to be in uncertainty because of the DBA Act;]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate the delays in the assessment of contracts by 1 December at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u264	In the first term, I asked questions on behalf of the SP Group about the employees with payroll contracts. The realzzp'ers, the real self-employed are increasingly forced to work through payroll contracts, so actually as a temporary worker. There was a wide-ranging vote on this at the time. We want that motion to be carried out. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to implement the Hamer motion on equal treatment in terms of working conditions for payroll workers and to submit proposals for this by 31 December 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u265	I also had a motion on the disclosure of model contracts. The Secretary of State had previously explicitly promised this. Now it has been promised again, and that is why I do not submit the motion, but I do believe that the Secretary of State must honour his commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u266	Mr. Chairman. I'm using my second term to file a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas employers and self-employed persons are important for maintaining employment and entrepreneurship;]] [[Whereas this new law should not, directly or indirectly, prevent clients and self-employed persons from being able to work for themselves;]] [[noting that in some sectors there is still uncertainty as to how to use this new law;]] [[invites the Government to clarify and to provide assurance that any contractor and self-employed person working under an approved model agreement is exempt from post-taxes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this new law should enable principals and self-employed persons to continue their activities;]] [[Whereas the Government announces a number of actions including increasing the capacity of the Tax Administration;]] [[Considering that the current lead time of an average of nine weeks to assess a model contract by the Tax Administration is very long;]] [[calls on the Government to shorten the term of office of the Tax Administration and to inform the Chamber before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this new law should enable principals and self-employed persons to continue their activities;]] [[Whereas the Government announces a number of actions including setting up a complaints hotline;]] [[noting that a hotline should not only report complaints, but also resolve them wherever possible;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with information on the problems identified in the hotline,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-30]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-31]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u267	Mr. Chairman. I hope from the bottom of my heart that this debate has brought a little more clarity to the self-employed who are sitting in the Chamber, listening elsewhere, or perhaps reading the report of the debate tomorrow. There are still a number of things that I like to see settled and which continue to amaze me. It is mainly about the model agreement of the parcel delivery companies. I still do not understand why they have a model agreement, but a number of sectors where there is clearly entrepreneurship, which do not have one. I shall table the next motion for a resolution to that effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the DBA Act aims to eliminate false self-employment;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the model agreement already approved by the Tax Administration for PostNL self-employed parcel delivery companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u268	Then I have a motion for a resolution on providing more clarity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas false self-employment leads to unfair competition which also harms the self-employed;]] [[Whereas the DBA Act aims to eliminate false self-employment;]] [[Whereas false self-employment is relatively common among parcel delivery workers and medical specialists;]] [[calls on the government to start gradually with enforcement after the transition period, giving priority to the parcel delivery sector and medical specialists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u269	Mr. Chairman. I'm not making any motions myself. I have signed a number of motions. If I had to sum up this debate, I would say: we need gas. Those are the words of this Secretary of State. I do not think that "we need gas" means that we only know in December which sectors are doing or are not doing well. "It needs gas" means that zzp'ers between now and let's say October/November know if they can work under a model agreement approved by the Tax Administration. I know it takes two parties to reach an agreement on this, but if we only hear about problems in certain sectors at the end of December, we will have solved it well in 2017 and all thosezzp'ers have just become unemployed. That is something we must avoid. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for clarifying a number of points. There will be no post-taxes while there is still discussion. Now he's going to take the industries and see what can be improved. The crucial question, in my view, is whether we can give certainty to those sectors which are not yet sure. So I ask the Secretary of State for one thing: does he want to send that survey to this Chamber for the autumn recess, not for the Christmas recess, but for the autumn recess, so that, if necessary, we can debate it earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u270	Mr. Chairman. I would almost accuse the Secretary of State of improper administration, for he launches a law here and thus turns a whole industry upside down. 1 millionzzp'ers do not know where they are and employers are shivering and insecure..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think the Secretary of State should sit down with the Deputy Prime Minister to explain the gaps to him. Of the 4,000 contracts submitted, 370 were approved. Of course you can't. The PVV has completely lost faith in this law. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the DBA Act is counterproductive in practice;]] [[noting that this means that many self-employed people are out of work;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the DBA Act and revive the VAR;]] [[calls on the Government to seek other targeted solutions to address abuse and bogus self-employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u271	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and the many comments he has made. It is clear to me that the Secretary of State intends to clarify this and to give that clarity tozzp'ers, but also to clients. There is already clarity at the moment, namely that there will be no fines and post-taxes for the consultation. For the rest, there is still a lot of uncertainty and it needs to be removed, so that there is room for an independent entrepreneur to undertake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u272	Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u273	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u274	Mr. Chairman. Unlike what I was prepared to do in the labour legislation, I want to interpret the motions creatively so that we can take steps. The first motion calls for a progress report on 1 November and for the final report of the Boat Committee on 12 December. I don't have the Boat Committee on strings. I would like to link the report of the Boot Committee to the progress report. This is what I'm going to present to the proposers. We'll put everything on top of everything. The Boot Committee must also make a firm move. Then we can have the promised report before Christmas, the Boot report, a cabinet position on the Boot report, an analysis of what came out of the hotline and a progress report on the model agreements. This includes the commitment to Mrs Schouten that we should report where it creates friction. It can't be faster than that. I just sent over a progress report. It's still warm.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u275	But it said that manyzzp'ers got cold around the heart. That's why I'd like to have that progress report for Christmas. I'm gonna go talk to the co-sponsors. I'm guessing we'll figure that out. The motion also states that the cabinet will then indicate how to proceed. That is implicit in the way the Secretary of State wishes to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u276	I have now also indicated how to proceed, and I can do that. We can then talk about whether it is final or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u277	We can make a decision on the progress of the law. We can change the date in December. Mrs Schouten had a specific point about the sectors which are not linked to the motion. I'm gonna go talk to the co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u278	I'm committed to separating those two cases. One seems to me to be the porch of the other. For those sectors where things are not going well, after the autumn recess, we can discuss what might still be necessary from the Chamber in order to do so. On Christmas we have the complete overview, including the opinion of the Boot Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u279	There must also be an opportunity to make some progress. Mrs. Schouten was talking about October. That's about it. We can't be witches. There's a lot of work going on and there's all kinds of things in the pipeline. I'll know a lot more before Christmas. It must remain feasible. I want to put my full weight behind it, but let us keep it feasible. That is my request to the authors. I understand their intentions. I made a pretty firm commitment, and that's a lot of work, including for Boot. I would like to pledge this and interpret the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u280	This is no easy matter, but Mr Bashir whispered to me precisely that we want to be able to debate this. I find it difficult to see the President looking, and I understand that from her responsibility for the agenda. I'd like to make it December 19th. That's the Monday of the last week before the recess. That gives the Chamber the opportunity to debate it if the concerns have not been removed. Then we are three weeks with recess. I fully respond to the Secretary of State's desire to have time to put everything on top of everything. I hope he understands that we want to be able to have another debate with him on this if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u281	That's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u282	Can I change from this place 12 to December 19? Then the motion has been modified?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u283	The date of 1 November is part of this, because otherwise we will not get anywhere. Then I'll have to write a progress report in two weeks, while the letter is still warm. If 19 December applies to both, I will leave the judgment to the Chamber and then I will now feel bound by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u284	I see the clerk looking at me. I'll file a modified motion. That's so easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u285	The motion-Van Weyenberg c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that manyzzp'ers are currently not getting commands;]] [[Whereas the problems must be resolved as quickly as possible;]] [[calls on the Cabinet, by 19 December at the latest, to send the final report of the Boot Commission and a report on the state of play of the DBA Act, and at that time to take a decision on the progress of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 21 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u286	This is a tying I have one more question about. In the motion-Van Weyenberg c.s. Wherever my name is, a more far-reaching judgment is required than I have put my finger on. I didn't talk about those 2,000 model agreements that still have to be assessed. I am concerned about the sectors where things are really not going well. I think it is important to have the information on this earlier. I give the Secretary of State room to indicate in a letter before 19 December where things are still difficult. Then we can look at what we can do as a Chamber before the final report of Boot. I want to think along with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u287	Well, we also need to learn a few things from that window that still needs to be operational. That's where we're gonna see that in industry x, y and z people get to work hard. Maybe Boot says he just happens to think it's a little too strict in those branches. So then we have a solution. It's part of each other. So I would very much like to discuss that together. That's why I'm thinking: December 19th I'm going to pick up, but if we do it differently, I'll be writing a new letter in two weeks. Then we're not necessarily much further. So I think it's part of each other. One affects the other. It makes a joint judgment possible, so not only from me... how do I see the next steps? But also from the Chamber. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u288	Finally, Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u289	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u290	Besides, it's about October already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u291	Let's not sit on that date of October 1st. That wasn't the port of my story either. I'm just trying to think along with the Secretary of State, so as not to create confusion for all thosezzp'ers. On 19 December we are already quite a bit upset. All these annual contracts have to be drawn up. In December, a lot of companies are planning. I am afraid that if we only know where there is uncertainty, this ambiguity does not apply to us so much, but to all those people who don't know at Christmas whether they have a job. I'd like to avoid that. That's why I want to see how we can think along with the Secretary of State. Can he not indicate in between how many conversations he has had with certain sectors where it is difficult? In between, can he indicate where he might have been able to make good progress and where things are still bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u292	I have an agenda full of those conversations. Otherwise, it's gonna be so meaningless. We didn't take until May 1st for nothing. Of course, I'm going to try to tell the Chamber about what she wants to know about it earlier. That is the way democracy works, and that is the way it should be. But we didn't take until May 1st for nothing. There's still time. I have also said that if there is anything else unclear, then 1 May is not sacred to this sector or anything else. There's time. This will take time, too. There have also been a lot of unexpected but also nasty surprises. Solutions must be found for this. That's hard work. It must also be done by the sectors themselves. They need to rediscover what the law actually stands for. I really want to hurry, but it has to be feasible. Not for nothing we've taken a full year for this, and we're halfway there now. And there's no enforcement now either. We're not getting a warrant right now. There's no fine. There's no maintenance. This is the moment it has to settle down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u293	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u294	By the way, I understand Mrs Schouten's concern. I'll come to the motion in part No. 22. It calls on the government to use the full scope of the law in the review of model agreements. Perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg will forgive me if I find him a little faint here because I have just been explaining in detail that the Tax Administration is following exactly, but precisely, the legislation. He called me a bureaucrat in that regard, but now... I think this is policy support. Because I agree with him that this has to be done, but it will be done as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u295	I know the Secretary of State. He'll be more creative as night goes on. I want things to change. So this is not policy support. I want, for example, that where testing is being carried out, that happens differently. So if the Secretary of State is going to work on this, that's fine with me. But I do want something to change. I don't want him to say, "We're actually doing this." There should be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u296	Just now Mr Van Weyenberg and I agreed that the Tax Administration must do so according to the law, so according to the Civil Code, but also according to the latest case law. We will. That has also been brought into line with the review framework after Boot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u297	Yeah, we're not gonna have that discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u298	I can only say that we have to do this, but I see it as support for policy. Here's the advice. I'll come to the motion in part No. 23. It invites the government not to impose any post-taxes, unless. This, by the way, is similar to what was said in the motion for a resolution on item No. 30 stands. Can I treat them at once? I would like to choose my own words here, because there is a reversal here that I cannot see the legal consequences. There is no follow-up charge for well-intentioned clients. We are aiming for security in advance, but not for unconditional safeguard. If I may understand the motion in this way, in accordance with the commitments I have made on this matter, I shall leave the judgement on both motions to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u299	I have chosen these words very consciously. I don't want all those well-meaning entrepreneurs who are in trouble right now to do it. For example, the Secretary of State has always said: no, this is only happening if we are still working on these model agreements. But I just want it generic. I would therefore like to make an assessment of this wording, which has been deliberately chosen in this way. I appreciate the Secretary of State's creativity, but these words are here on purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u300	Then I have to discourage this motion and then I want the motion in part no. Mr Zieng's motion is not an unconditional safeguard, as offered by the VAR, but a guarantee in advance. In that sense, I shall leave the motion for a resolution to the House's judgement. But in terms of legal consequences, we do play with great things in this Chamber. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 24. This is the question for the VAR-wuo. That was my answer in the debate. I have to discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. 25 is requested to place the hotline with the Boot Commission. This should be a hotline for labour market effects. For second opions, Boot can test things, but he chooses them himself, because he is the professional. The hotline is also not meant as a helpdesk, because we have the account teams for that. It is not a complaint point either, because there is a complaint procedure. This is about labour market effects; the big effects that we are worried about. It is about the question that Mrs Schouten keeps asking: in which sectors do we have a problem? That's what the hotline is for. There's no business there. Casualties are part of the teams. I must therefore advise against this motion. The motions on the documents Nos. 26 and 27 ask us, as it goes to eleven, to break labour legislation. I really need to discourage these motions. Here a crowbar is put in carefully established labour law. I can't embrace this on my own here. This is not the way we should think about labour legislation either. It's not chiseled in concrete, it's never been, but this is going too fast. In the motion in part No. 28 the government is invited to eliminate the backlogs. Getting rid of the backlog is easy, but we haven't been helped by that. As of December 1st, everything is digitally disposed of. We're just gonna say "no" a lot of times, and that's not the point. The IRS needs to be in the backup position. I want to make this a success and not just become a nosing machine. You weren't helped with that. I advise against this motion in the interests of thezzp'ers and the clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u301	But when could it be? This bill entered into force on 1 May. The motion calls for it to be kept in order by 1 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u302	Mr Bashir asked that question earlier. I said I'll report where I stand in December. Then it's up to him to decide if he thinks that's good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u303	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u304	But you can't do this, can you? A law has entered into force and people are in uncertainty. I'm not saying it should be fine by tomorrow. I'm not saying it should be okay next week or next month. No, it doesn't have to be until December, two months from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u305	This law will not be implemented until 1 May 2017. We've taken a full year for this and we're halfway there. I want to report where I stand in December. I am sure that Mr Bashir is going to have an opinion on that. But commitments about things that I don't have any influence on as the only party, I don't. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 29 on the Hamer motion. A cabinet letter was sent about that. In line with the cabinet letter, I must discourage this motion. On the motion in part No. I have already said that I leave the judgement to the Chamber, with a comment. In the motion in part No. Mr Ziegs asked for a reduction in the lead time. Well, that's one of the possibilities. I'll leave this motion to the House's judgment. In the motion in part No. 32 stands to "solve onward." This motion is also about the hotline, but it is about the bottlenecks in certain sectors. There's uncertainty or people don't come to work anymore. That must indeed be resolved swiftly. The Chamber must be informed of this before Christmas, I read. I shall leave this motion to the House's discretion. I come to the motions on pieces Nos. 33 and 34. I understand the intentions behind it. This also has a strong relationship with a highly developed sense of justice of Mrs Vos, but from the roles it is a bit schmutzig, although it is not meant to be. After all, it is not up to me or the Chamber to direct enforcement. I recognize the intentions behind it, but this is not the way to deal with independent enforcement. This isn't the way. I must dissuade both of these motions in this form, and I have already promised that we will go after the greatest offenders and also work hardest on those sectors where there are the greatest risks. And a good listener only needs half a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u306	In this form, the Secretary of State says. The motion in part No. 32 on PostNL, together with Mrs Schouten. "Rethink," it says. I'm not asking you to move in. In view of the discussion here in the Chamber and the political interference with the law, how should it be formulated in order to ensure that the roles remain the same and at the same time take account of the strong feeling in this Chamber to look at the parcel deliverers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u307	I understand that concern. We have a committee and it decides which agreements it wants to examine and discuss more closely. I'm not gonna send that commission either, because I'm gonna make myself a suspect. I'll have an independent committee review the IRS and then I'll give all kinds of orders to that committee. I would suggest to Mrs Mei Li Vos to withdraw her motion and to accept the commitment I wish to make as follows. I will inform Mr Boot that there is a desire in Parliament for this to be looked at very carefully. Then I'll leave it to him to do it. However, I do not want to send my own keyboard or send it out with this kind of thing. That makes it messy. We just built in independence. That gentleman can show me all the corners of the Chamber if he wishes, and he must. I'm not gonna steer. I find that very uncomfortable in this relationship. I want to make a promise that I will pass on the wishes of the Chamber to Mr Boot. I'll leave it to him to decide if he'll take it. The people who work with the Boat Committee are now really throwing a trash can over their heads, but that is up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u308	I'm gonna say I'm gonna think about it. I'd like to see that trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u309	That's in the civil servants' room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u310	Then the motion to part No. 34.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u311	I had to dissuade them for the same reason. The motion in part No. 35 is just going back to a law that caused all these situations. This motion I strongly advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u312	Thank you. I think you've dealt with all the motions. Mr Van Weyenberg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u313	I am not going to declare the VAR declaration sacred, but the chairman of the VVD group said: if necessary back to the VAR. Well, I guess I'm curious about that last sentence. I'd rather look for other solutions too. How does the Secretary of State weigh up Mr Zijlstra's words, given his "I advise against doing so"? For me, going back to the VAR is also the last resort, and I hope we do not need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u314	I am not in the VVD Group; let me just say that. How do I weigh that? I see this as the statement of someone, whom I also recognize as a member of the party, who has the institution to look for as long as there is a problem, until there is a solution. I do not think that this is the final solution, but I think that the institution is to keep looking for ways of repairing what is broken, correcting what is not working, accelerating what is going too slowly, and so on. I like that attitude. We've talked enough about the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-10.u315	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet or in the public gallery. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
