ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the failed army coup, Erdogan flirted with the death penalty this summer. This weekend turned out to be serious. During a speech in Istanbul, he said he wanted to resume the death penalty in his country. President Erdogan has a law in preparation that he will shortly submit to Parliament. This is, of course, extremely worrying and, as far as my group is concerned, there is also a very clear consequence, which we have already mentioned, namely that a country which introduces the death penalty can never be a member of the European Union. The death penalty cannot be reconciled with European values, as Minister Koenders said this summer. Erdogan is also absolutely aware of that fact. In fact, in 2004 the Turkish Parliament abolished the death penalty during the preparations for accession negotiations with Europe. This development reaffirms what everyone knows a long time ago, namely that Turkey is moving further and faster away from all European values, for which we stand together. D66 is also opposed to an undemocratic coup, but that coup does not justify a deadly revenge exercise to literally eliminate the couplers hated by Erdogan. I have a simple question to ask this Minister: does the cabinet think that this Erdogan Turkey can become a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. That is a clear question, and a clear answer will follow. A country which introduces the death penalty cannot be a member of the European Union. It was then, it is now, and it will continue to be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	That was short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's the way it's supposed to be. That is to clarify matters in Parliament. My next block is about putting the word into action. I welcome this sensible response from the Minister. It was almost impossible for the Minister to say otherwise. I ask colleagues to stay and listen with me. I would also like to hear what the cabinet is going to do in concrete terms. Despite all developments, the accession talks with Turkey continue. I fear this has to do with the dubious EU-Turkey deal. It included the need for new energy in the accession processes. I am very pleased that the cabinet is so clear, but I would ask this Minister whether the cabinet will now also actively and directly plead for the end of the accession talks. Or is the death penalty, when it comes to it, acceptable and the accession negotiations continue? I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Verhoeven pointed out that Erdogan, as well as others in his cabinet, had already advocated the introduction of the death penalty. In any case, they have made a plea to that effect. The reactions of the EU Member States, the European Union and the European Commission were absolutely clear: those who introduce the death penalty cannot be members of the European Union. Erdogan talks a lot, but it's about the actions in the end. Mr Verhoeven himself spoke just now about taking action. As soon as Erdogan's words are translated into action, the negotiations with Turkey will cease.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	We are talking about a country where critical journalists are being arrested, where more than 30,000 people have been arrested since the coup, where fundamental human rights are being violated and where it is officially announced that a proposal is being sent to Parliament to introduce the death penalty. So there wasn't just anything said to an interviewer. No, a law has been announced to re-introduce the death penalty. The cabinet has made a deal with this country to control the refugee crisis. At first, the Minister says very clearly that a country that introduces the death penalty cannot become a member of the EU. But a country which sends a proposal for the death penalty to Parliament can apparently continue with the accession negotiations. Why does the cabinet not say clearly that a country where the death penalty can be imposed cannot be a candidate for EU membership? When will the cabinet take this position? Or is it really going to wait until it's all official, as we've seen on many of the previous issues? Then the cabinet suddenly says: Oh, we are surprised by this development. Why is the cabinet not going to bring this up at the European Summit in December? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether the cabinet will publicly condemn this step by Turkey. So I am not asking whether the cabinet is taking a position towards the EU. I ask the cabinet to make it clear to Turkey that it condemns this step by President Erdogan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	Both the European Union and the EU Member States and the Dutch Government have repeatedly indicated that the statements of Erdogan or his or hers are reprehensible and that the introduction of the death penalty cannot be considered if Turkey wishes to become a member of the European Union. As Mr Verhoeven knows, no new chapters are currently being opened in the negotiation process. It's being blocked. No new chapters will be opened unless there is another improved situation. Mr Verhoeven knows as well as I do that the European Union, the EU Member States and therefore the Netherlands are closely monitoring the situation in Turkey. I very much agree with Mr Verhoeven that we must keep a very close eye on this, but I repeat what I have just said: once Erdogan's words are translated into action, the negotiations will be brought to a final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	Does it mean 'converted into action' that a death penalty is actually being implemented or only that the death penalty is being introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	Entered. That seems pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	Okay. Is there no reason to hold back the pre-accession funds or the accession funds that are being paid to Turkey to this day? Finally, a motion was adopted here a few weeks ago to freeze those entry fees. Is the Minister prepared to pass that on to the Prime Minister, of course, in order to put on the agenda for 16 December that support should be sought to stop these pre-accessional payments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	The progress of the accession negotiations is primarily in the hands of Turkey itself. They have the key in their hands. As soon as words from Erdogan are translated into action, the negotiations will be brought to an end. The pre-accessory payments and the amounts transferred to Turkey in that context are part of the current arrangements. The key is in Turkish hands. When they enter, it stops and also stops the pre-accessional fees. That seems to me to be quite clear. Erdogan's been saying a lot lately. If we have to act on his words every time... what matters is what will remain of those words if, in the future, a law is submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	You know, I'm kind of freaking out. There's an approved motion on those pre-accessional fees. And now the Minister paints an image as if this cabinet does not have the view that these pre-accessional fees should be stopped, while the majority of the Chamber has adopted that position, not because of this death penalty, but because of all the misery that is currently taking place in the rule of law and the police system in Turkey. I ask the Minister the very clear question, following Mr Voordewind's call, to put this issue on the table again in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	I shall pass on Mr Sjoerdsma's words to my foreign minister, who will, of course, do justice to the statements of the Chamber in the gremium that lends himself to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	Let us be clear on that last point that this motion is simply being carried out. There's no other way. I would like to stress once again that there can be no misunderstanding about this. The Minister will pass that on to her colleague. I do not hear the Minister say that diplomatic steps are now being taken in response to this announcement. And I'm surprised at that. I think that we could have the greatest interest in preventing this crazy development in Turkey. We should be able to do so and we should be able to do so. For example, does the Minister intend to call on the ambassador and say: what are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think it is well known to this Chamber that at the various moments of contact, through the ambassador, but also between government officials, between my foreign minister Mr Koenders and his counterpart, between my foreign trade and development partner and her counterpart, between myself and my counterpart, between the Prime Minister and Mr Erdogan, there is time and again no word of Spanish spoken in what we think about a number of matters. The Chamber has been repeatedly informed of this in various debates. I'm telling the Chamber she doesn't have to worry about that. We do not turn our hearts into a murder pit in the direction of the Turkish authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
