ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. In an episode of South Park, Kyle agreed to the terms of use of an app. He was then subjected to involuntary organ donation and medical experiments. In a real experiment, people distanced themselves from their children after not reading the terms of use. I do understand these examples, because let's face it, most people have better things to do than read terms of use. They are also often inscrutable, incomprehensible and inimitable. I didn't find out until I found out that everyone can look up your public Facebook profile with just your phone number. If you don't want to, you have to delete your number from Facebook. So you have the choice to make the link or not. However, the question with the data deal between WhatsApp and Facebook is whether the almost 10 million Dutch who use WhatsApp actually have the choice not to agree to annoying advertisements on WhatsApp. If you don't feel like those ads, you can refuse to agree to the new terms of WhatsApp, but then you can't have whatsappen with friends, family, colleagues and, more and more often, the government itself. For many people, not being able to whatsappen equals breaking down social contacts. So the question is whether there is a real choice here, whether there is a fake choice. Moreover, this choice seems irreversible, because once your data has been given, they always seem to be given. Can the Minister of V and J discuss with his European colleagues and the Personal Data Authority the requirements that may be imposed both on the clarity of the conditions of use and on the level of reality of the choice offered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Wijngaarden for giving me the opportunity to raise this important issue in public. Indeed, WhatsApp has changed its Terms of Service and its Privacy Policy to share user account information with Facebook. My concern lies in the following, which I believe is why Mr Van Wijngaarden is asking this question. People do, by default, click away the message about it and do not realize that they make a choice. So that choice is not actually made, but automatically results from the fact that people think: well, it will be good. But it must always be possible to change that choice again. In my view, these are precisely the points on which Mr Van Wijngaarden is concerned. I share those concerns. Now WhatsApp users enter into a new agreement with WhatsApp and, in case of acceptance, consent to share information with Facebook so that the advertisements can be provided in a more convenient and better way. However, this means that the information is shared. You can refuse, but you have to really read the terms. The point of concern is, as Mr Van Wijngaarden pointed out, that people do not do the latter. That is their own responsibility, and it will always be. It is then, of course, up to the Dutch Data Protection Authority to assess whether those options have been properly implemented. In this respect, the government's message is that everyone must always be careful about using any social medium, but at the same time that people must also take their own responsibility in this respect. With regard to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, I note that the UK Privacy Supervisor indicated two weeks ago to monitor WhatsApp and Facebook extra. I therefore do not need to go into this matter with my European colleagues; the British have already taken action on this issue. For this reason, the Dutch Data Protection Authority has stated that it is not yet taking independent action, keeping its finger on the wrist and putting any questions that exist in the Netherlands to British colleagues. As far as I am concerned, the starting point is clear. It must be very clear what people choose. It must also be clear what the consequences are. That choice must be made by people themselves, but people must be able to make that choice truly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	It's good to hear the Minister shares our concern. It is also good to hear that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is working with the British colleagues, but the authority should of course simply monitor the unauthorized use of your phone number, your profile photos and all your contacts. No one wants his or her contacts to fall into the wrong hands and that vague conditions of an app that 10 million Dutch people use can continue to exist. These are the conditions of applications that we all use ourselves. I therefore ask the Minister whether he can at least ask the Personal Data Authority to send the opinion, as soon as it is ready, that the consultation with British colleagues on this data deal between Facebook and WhatsApp should take place as soon as possible to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	I don't have to ask for that. The Personal Data Authority will undoubtedly judge independently whether a decision by British colleagues is sufficient. It also comes with its own judgment, within the framework of its own enforcement and, so I am committed to noticing, independent task. I will, of course, be happy to inform the Chamber about it if there is any outcome on that point. Let me add that the Article 29 working group, the independent advisory and consultation body of all 28 national privacy regulators in the European Union, has already said that it will follow these developments with extreme vigilance. He, too, agrees with the view that I, and also Mr Van Wijngaarden, have just stated that the individual must have control over his data, especially if they are combined by two large Internet companies. The Article 29 working group has already drawn attention to this issue at European level. I can only estimate that this report and this Parliamentary question can get a strong result, not only in England, and then, of course, in the Netherlands, but certainly in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	I thank the Minister for the shared sense of urgency. The Minister is right to point out the independence of the authority. We will all also have our own conversation with the new chairman of the authority. Then we are free to raise this as well. The VVD will at least do that. It is good that we were able to talk about this so quickly, because this affects, as I said, almost 10 million Dutch people; so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	I, too, appreciate that I was able to answer these questions. I hope that its impact in the media will be that people will be reminded of the changes that have occurred at WhatsApp in conjunction with Facebook, that people will indeed make those conscious choices and that the Personal Data Authority will assess, where necessary, whether people are actually given the opportunity to make those conscious choices. In this context, one of the subjects could be that opt-out option, which is still of limited duration. I imagine there will be a quick ruling on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	I don't share the shared sense of urgency of these two VVDs. They are talking a bit bumpy about this subject, while this is about the privacy and personal data of people, who are simply going to be widely shared with an even bigger American company, that can do whatever it wants. The people who are not on Facebook are also affected by this. So it's a big deal. All I think about is monitoring talk and sending a letter to the Chamber a little thin. So I ask the Minister whether he is going to do something in Europe. There is, of course, a European law that can really be dealt with here. Is the Minister also going to do something at the level of legislation, and not just at the level of supervision, to make sure that companies like this are simply told that this is not possible in the future? We can say that we are going to talk to the privacy watchdog in the Netherlands, but that is not enough. You must also take a position on this in Europe. Then you might be able to whistle back one of those American companies a little bit. Is the Minister going to take that step, or is it going to send letters to the Chamber and talk to supervisors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thanks to D66, the Netherlands has excellent privacy legislation. It is largely based on European legislation and will soon be further adapted and modernised as a result of recently amended European legislation. There is nothing wrong with that in itself; we all agree on that. The question then arises: are companies operating within the European Union complying with European laws and regulations? The opinion on this is with the Personal Data Authority. That's how we arranged it. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has agreed with the British that they have the lead. The British will come to a conclusion and we will follow it or not. That's up to the authority. That's how the system's set up. That means I'm not going to do everything on my own. There is no discussion that our legislation and our regulations in the European context simply meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	This deal is also of great concern to the CDA. What we might want is a better deal between Justice and WhatsApp. WhatsApp increasingly uses encryption. On 22 August last, the Public Prosecutor's Office sounded the alarm because, like the AIVD, it sometimes gets in trouble. It is difficult to detect dangerous situations. We have always wanted this to happen under the supervision of a judge, but can the Minister also pay attention to this today? In what way is WhatsApp spoken to within the Justice Department, so that, with proper scrutiny and all the security safeguards we know, access remains possible, precisely in the interests of security?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	I've had that debate with the Chamber before. That is right, because there are two very important quantities opposite each other. On the one hand, there is the greatness that people who use certain services have the assurance that they can do so safely. That means that encryption, so encrypting the data, is essential. For most of the careful providers of apps with which data is exchanged, whatsApp is also one of the ones that do not have access to that information and therefore cannot provide access to good people, e.g. investigative bodies. At the same time, we must realise that this possibility, if it is there, can also be abused. That is precisely why, in a very neat letter to the Chamber dated 6 July last, we described what the cabinet is like. On the one hand, we think that encryption is very important, but on the other hand, of course, we are doing everything we can to get access where it is needed. That will have to be weighed very carefully. In any case, the cabinet's starting point is that encryption is essential for all users of social media and other services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	I thank the Minister.
