ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister and, of course, the members. The first term on the part of the Chamber has already been. When the Minister is ready, I'll give her the floor. I see she's ready. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Members of your Chamber for all the questions and comments they made and made yesterday in the first term. I have answered a number of questions in writing. I'm going to answer the other questions tonight. I'd like to add a few cubes to that. I'll just mention it, so everyone knows where he or she is. First of all, I will deal with the aid and trade agenda and its effectiveness. Secondly, I'm going into the results we're getting from OS. I see Mr Dijkgraaf sitting here in front of me; he asked, for example, if we have learned anything. I'd like to say something about that cup. The third block is about inclusive development: we achieve the poorest and what do we do for them? Block four is about emergency aid. Of course, we are talking about the humanitarian crisis. Then I come to the issue of climate and then to the new generation of trade agreements. I have a very thick piece of paper here for me, Mr. Chairman. I'll get through it as soon as I can. We have already talked a lot about a number of points, in particular the blocks I mentioned last. So I want to focus on aid and trade and its effectiveness. The 2016 developing countries are no longer the developing countries of 1996. They are not even the countries of 2006. I see Mr Smaling on my left. The countries that were developing countries at the time that he and I were in high school are now partly growing tigers. On a continent like Africa, there are still countries that show economic growth in what is called double digital, even though it is now a little more difficult. So the world asked for another, if you want more modern type of development cooperation. The Netherlands has chosen to bring together aid and trade. Internationally, there is an extraordinary interest in this. In developing countries, too, there is a great deal of appreciation for this. We also want to get rid of aid and the need to keep our hands on it. They say that literally sometimes. Sometimes a minister says: "We really need your help for a few more years, but can we talk about whether you can bring Dutch companies here and whether we can make investments here?" It is therefore clear that countries themselves want to strengthen their earning capacity, that they want to create jobs for their growing population, and that I will also say something about this later, following Mr Taverne's remark and that they want to be able to collect tax revenue themselves. The aid and trade agenda therefore fits the agenda of developing countries and is therefore a modern type of development cooperation alone. Of course, the aid and trade agenda requires funding. However, there are a lot of interventions that don't really need that much money, but which can have a huge impact. I refer, for example, to the agreements we have concluded. Mr Smaling has already mentioned this. These include coal, textiles and the financial sector. The beauty of this aid and trade agenda is that we put civil society organisations, companies and government together. In Mr Van Laar's words, they are originally distrustful parties, but they are now on the table. This broad agenda for aid and trade has been very helpful. I would like to say to Mr Smaling that he can still look at covenants in the areas of wood, ornamental crops, sustainable proteins, which sounds like something very small, but in almost everything we eat there are sustainable proteins, agriculture and horticulture, natural stone, gold, insurance and food. I would therefore like to present it for the next five or six months. I've already written a letter about that. In early 2017, we will report back to the Chamber on progress. Our discussion with the sectors partly raises the question of how consumers can recognise what is good. Mr Voordewind had a very specific question about this. He asked for certification and named ISEAL. We are very much in favour of initiatives that contribute to the harmonisation of labels. Between us: it makes you crazy when you see what different labels you can find in the supermarket. ISEAL is the umbrella organisation that is committed to this. We have involved this, for example, in our conference on living wedges in Pakistan. So we are working intensively with this party, which Mr Voordewind will do well. The aid and trade agenda has also changed economic missions. I do not call them "trade missions" anymore. It is not just companies that are going on the road. We often go with a broad delegation of companies, trade unions and NGOs. We have been in Colombia, for example, but also in a number of other countries. I say to Mrs Van Veldhoven that this is a good way to achieve what she wants so badly, namely to show how the Netherlands can offer integrated solutions to social problems. We also have a toolbox for this: partners in business. Additional funds have now been set aside to increase the effectiveness of trade missions by coordinating a little more at the front and back. All this is in line with Mrs Van Veldhoven's request. I would like to assure her that I will report to the Chamber on this in the next letter on economic missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	Before I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven, I must inform you that Mrs Thieme of the Animal Party has signed off on this debate. I promised her I'd call this in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	I am very pleased with this commitment from the Minister. I'm glad to see that attention is paid to this within the Ministry. But if a company has ideas for such a consortium, where can it come in? Who does it have to be to ensure that the resources available for this can be used quickly? How is the Minister going to spread the availability of such resources and their attention to Dutch industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	If it is right, the business community knows about this facility, because we have that one window. Companies can always report to our Directorate-General for External Economic Relations (DGBEB). I would very much welcome that. One of our major challenges in achieving what Mrs Van Veldhoven and myself want is the fact that we are dealing with a competitive environment. This means that the encouragement from the government is very much welcomed by the companies. Usually that is the other way around; then we try to push a bit. The top sectors have invested a great deal in this in recent years. So the companies involved should really know this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	I think we spoke to a number of big companies six months ago. They then talked about this and said that it would be so good if there were some more facilities to strengthen coordination at the front. Apparently, this hadn't gotten through to everyone yet. I am very glad that the Minister says that she is very keen to do so. That is why I would like to say to the Minister: let there be room for that, let us spread that message with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	I'd be happy to. I shall also raise Mrs Thieme's questions, because I am sure that someone from her group will be watching. In the case of aid and trade there are therefore other types of economic missions. What is also different is the fact that the ODA funds are increasingly being used as catalysts to generate other resources. For example, every euro invested in the Dutch Good Growth Fund generates €3.50 from other sources. Of course, that is what we want: to make that one euro more. This can also be seen at micro level. We have invested a lot in innovative funding, including in insurance systems. As a result, 800,000 people now have access to health insurance and agricultural insurance. This, too, is a way of making more effective use of the funds. The portfolio of aid and trade, if it is right, brings more coherence: do not take it with one hand, while you give it with the other hand. In this context, Mr Taverne also asked about the impact of trade barriers on developing countries. We have done a great deal during this period to achieve fair trade agreements with Africa. They are beneficial because there is virtually complete free access to the EU market for those countries that have concluded an agreement. Five agreements have been reached and some negotiations are still under way. We remain committed to this. But not only is that happening; we are also encouraging the rich developing countries to negotiate this type of market access with the other countries. I think Mr Taverne is right that we also need fair trade relations for development.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	That's good to hear. To what extent, in that process towards more free trade, could the continued provision of development aid still distort the market? Where in the process would that end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	With the programmes that the Netherlands has for private sector development we want to be additional to the market. By the way, I say to Mr Grashoff, this is not just about working through businesses, but about a much wider area, including, for example, investment in customs services and access for small farmers to the market. In the agenda, therefore, we want to be additional to the market. That is also the role that the government has to play. We facilitate, for example, by making negotiating capacity available. Market-distorting programmes are not allowed and there are no market-distorting programmes. Mr Taverne asked when, if these markets are developed, that aid could be reduced. This requires a very specific commitment, which depends on the context. With Kenya, we are talking about phasing out aid towards 2020. Of course, this has everything to do with the fact that Kenya has been able to develop its own economy, its own earning capacity, including by concluding regional trade agreements and customs agreements. So if Mr Taverne asks if there is any coherence, then I think that is the case, because you are going to conclude trade agreements when you want to develop your markets and your earning capacity further. I come to a question from Mrs Thieme. She likes this trade, but she wonders what the effects of that policy are on people, animals and the environment elsewhere in the world. Last year she asked such a question, but a little wider. As a result, my colleague Bert Koenders and I wrote a letter in June on the effects of climate change, on trade and tax policy and on its impact on fragile regions. In that letter we also presented an action plan, which includes development-friendly agreements with African countries. It is precisely the aid and trade agenda that has provided the opportunity to involve everything we do with trade in this area, and thus to pursue a much more coherent policy, which is also much better for developing countries. I would just like to comment on the tax capacity. I already indicated that ODA remains important, especially for fragile countries. But countries also want to generate taxes themselves. Every euro invested in strengthening a tax administration, I say to Mr Taverne, is worth ten times as much. This can be re-invested in social sectors. Mr Taverne asked why these tax authorities are not yet good enough. The temptation is great to make a comparison with the troubles at our own Tax Office. However, it is very complex. It is all the more complex in developing countries, because sometimes there is still a tax moral to be developed. Consumer taxes are very easily levied. A market woman sometimes pays more than a multinational. Mrs Thieme had also asked a question about this. It is true that this should not be the case. It is therefore good to invest in the tax authorities, as well as we invest in customs, so that they can carry out their controls in a transparent and proper manner. Again, it is an extremely sensible investment. There is one thing that goes with that, namely that there must be fair tax treaties. The Netherlands has so far been the only country to say that I am sad to say that developing countries have offered to renegotiate the tax treaties and to include an anti-abuse clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	As I said in my speech, it is a good thing that the Minister is helping these countries to tax, but what should we think that after more than 40 years of aid, we should help countries to set up a rather basic infrastructure to tax? It's okay, but it can also lead to questions if after 40 years such a country is apparently still so lagging behind that you have to help set up an IRS. First of all, what the hell have we done there for the last 40 years? Secondly, do those countries which do not have this kind of rudimentary but basic services have good financial infrastructure to manage the financial assistance they receive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	It's good to consider the following. For example, a well-functioning tax system has a good window... What is the name of such a window where you can get your passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	Civic business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	Exactly, civilian business. You need to know who lives where. In many countries there are no postal codes, for example. An administrative infrastructure is of great importance. The aid projects show that the programmes financed by the Netherlands are partly implemented by organisations that operate very locally. We work a lot with local authorities, because then we are much closer to those to whom aid should be given. I understand Mr Taverne's question, but you can't exactly compare it one-on-one. The fact is that countries that are able to tax properly can invest in the social sectors themselves, so that they can be more on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	It is absolutely not my intention to be faint, but I repeat a bit of what I said earlier. I get that. If you don't have a well-organised civil stand and a good land register, for example, in Europe you just have to look at Greece to see where that can lead, then setting up a decent tax system is very difficult. But what are we actually doing if, after 40 years, we apparently still have to help countries install the most basic infrastructure? It is beginning to carry water to the sea, although water is scarce in Africa. How much longer do we have to keep doing this? After 40 years, are we on the right track if we are still at this level of help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	Let me then highlight the other side from the point of view of taxation. I was talking about a desk of civil affairs for the administration. Let us see who the developing countries are dealing with. Take a country like Zambia. That has a number of large mining companies within its borders. Those mining companies have tax advisors who, I think, ask by the hour what Mr Taverne and I do not earn in a month. The capacity and expertise are therefore also very uneven. Of course, these kinds of companies also have to pay a decent tax. So it's not just a matter of: shouldn't they have built that up before? I now paraphrase Mr Taverne's words. It is also a question of: who are they dealing with and do they have enough expertise to ask for the right thing to do? The answer to that is sometimes just "no." A developing country can't hire such an agency with expensive fiscalists. You shouldn't be. They should be able to do that on their own. I do not share Mr Taverne's doubts. Of course, you could say: shouldn't we have thought 20 years ago that this was a clever way of helping? Maybe. But that's always a bit of talking afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	Before I give Mr Van Laar the opportunity to interrupt, I would ask Members to formulate their questions somewhat compactly. I'll keep an eye out for that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	That argument of 40 years is put forward all the time. I would like to ask the Minister for a brief consideration. Does she think that over the last 40 years, Western governments and companies have achieved more in developing countries than they have brought? Or is it the other way around? After all, I have the idea that this backward development is not only caused by national circumstances, but also, to a large extent, by world relations, as the Minister himself describes. Maybe she can say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	I can at least say that two years ago the African Union issued a report on illicit financial flows. This concerns the question of what countries have been deprived of in terms of tax revenues that should be paid. The amounts mentioned in that report are, of course, immense. You could do a lot of good about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	The European agricultural policy will be added to this, which means that subsidised products will be dumped there again. I call tax avoidance and raw materials robbery. That's gonna be all right. 40 years ago, the situation was even more serious than it is now. Does the Minister share the analysis that more has actually been achieved than has been achieved over the past four decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	A lot of research has been done on that. I do not think that the question of whether more than net was achieved is the most interesting question at the end of the day. The most interesting question is: what did it get? The world was also very intertwined 40 years ago. For example, from a commodity rich Congo you can say with good reason that there is more out of it than it has been brought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr Van Laar had to save the minister for a moment, because Mr Taverne came up with sharp questions that he did not get an answer to. That was the question: why do these developing countries not just do it themselves? The minister arrived with Zambia. I happened to read a book by Bas de Gaay Fortman a week or so ago. He's been in Zambia for a long time. He was in the cabinet of Den Uyl in 1973. So he was already there in the late 1960s/early 1970s. He also described in his book on Zambia that there was insufficient infrastructure. So the 40-year period that Mr Taverne is talking about is just right. Surely these countries understand that collecting taxes is very important? Why don't you just organize it? Then why don't they? Then why do we have to come from Europe to explain very paternalisticly, very neo-colonialistly what to do? Why don't they just do it themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	The international tax systems have actually become more complicated. If countries that are connected to the rest of the world in international value chains, we were talking about mining companies saying that they simply don't have the capacity to manage and ask for help themselves, then I think that is a very good investment. In fact, I do not know if Mr Bosma was there at the time, but I have just said that this investment per euro will yield another €10 that the countries themselves can invest in their own social sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	It is not a question of complicated tax arrangements with multinationals in the field of mining, it is often a matter of very simple things, namely simply raising money from the people who have an income. You can charge taxes or VAT on that. In many of these countries, this is simply extremely bad. Read the book of Bas de Gaay Fortman from 1970. Then you see that it was very badly arranged in Zambia. Finish the story yourself and color the pictures. It hasn't gotten much better. Why do we have to continue to glorify forever, when the people themselves seem not to be convinced that they themselves should take care of the most basic things for their own country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	I would say: let us all put our hands on it. I know that Mr Bosma does not want that, but I think it is important to strengthen the earning capacity of countries. This includes the ability to levy taxes. I think that is extremely sensible, and we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	The minister calls Zambia. Without wanting to peel off one case altogether, it is perhaps important to go into it, because the minister's principles are good: if countries can tax themselves, they can develop themselves and become less dependent on us. Without wanting to go all the way through history, Zambia was a middle income country when it became independent. It is now a low-income country. This means that we did not have to build anything from scratch. I fully agree with the Minister that Chinese companies there are taking over the copper industry and that they must have invented very smart fiscal structures. But I don't think the help with the tax authorities focuses on advising on tax constructions. That's what KPMG is for in the Netherlands. It works all over the world. So I am asking the question and I really want to have an answer: the starting point is good, but how useful is it to help countries in this area if decades have not shown that they can do it? Or they had it done, but they finally dropped it from their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	The counter-question, of course, is: how useful is it to do nothing and watch multinationals use a lack of capacity in a government to avoid tax, but sometimes simply avoid tax? Then I think it is wise to send experts who know what the tax structures are now working on. They can advise the local tax authorities, also on how to operate in such an international field at this time, with all this intertwinedness. I think that is a really sensible investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	I do not think it is really so important whether we consider that wise here in the Netherlands, or the Dutch Minister of BuHa-OS. It is about what the people of Zambia, in this case, think is sensible. If the people of Zambia seem to think it wise that the government does not pay attention to it, then so be it. That's independence. That's what those countries fought for. They are independent and have the right to self-determination. If they choose not to think this is important, should they not just know it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	I think at the beginning of this little debate I said to Mr Taverne: we do so at the request of those countries. The image we would say "hey, hello Zambia, there we are, you wouldn't even..." doesn't add up. Zambia itself sees that it needs expertise in order for the tax authorities to collect taxes, not only from the market merchants, but also from that multinational. That is what we and the IMF are being asked to do. Because you are not mistaken: the IMF comes to these countries asking for or unsolicited simply because we have agreed with each other that we want to try to make and keep countries financially healthy. Of course, this is part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	I see you, Mr. Smaling, but we're at block one and we have six blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yes, Mr President, that will be six interruptions. No, I'm not. There are a few uncomfortable things on this subject that do not relate to each other, I think. The Minister has been a great advocate of the major international free trade agreements. When it comes to trade with countries in Africa, we recently saw in Ethiopia, for example, that there is a downside to that. Heineken, for example, deducts a lot from his costs, cleans up an existing beer company. We invest in flowers and beer from the Netherlands. You might wonder if that's a priority, yes or no. Then we are also a tax haven and we are going very hard at strengthening tax administrations. These countries are now drawing their taxes from customs revenue, from VAT-like taxes, and now we are going to support those Economic Partnership Agreements...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u33	... which undermines the fact that those countries can stop taxing from customs revenue in the public sector. I can't cook soup anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u34	I do, thank God. Mr Smaling and I have spoken more often about the Economic Partnership Agreements, those trade agreements with African countries. I just said to Mr Taverne that those agreements are better for those countries and offer better conditions than for Europe. That's the way it should be. What these Economic Partnership Agreements do is, together with a number of other interventions, we have agreed in the WTO, for example, to do more in the area of trade facilitation, how do you get a good customs, how do you ensure that it works transparently and that whole package together, in my opinion, ensures that trade is not all free, but also fair. It is true that many developing countries want to attract foreign companies as investors. It is also important to invest in what is called an "enabling environment." This means making sure that such a developing country has enough capacity to set good conditions and we come to the point where land rights are guaranteed. I would argue that precisely this aid and trade agenda could lead to more than if you approached things separately, or, as far as I am concerned, to a cohesion that does what Mr Smaling is trying to do and whatever I support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u35	I continue to have problems with the concept of aid and trade and with the fact that that is the direction. Look, trade can work very well, but that depends entirely on economic power relations. If you have unequal partners or if a receiving country like Ethiopia wants to attract investments with nice conditions, then the inhabitants of a country that have no land law will suffer. The bottom line is that as long as trade takes place between partners in an unequal balance of power, the added value goes to one of the two partners. Then there is no equal playing field. This also applies to the Economic Partnership Agreements, and I do not really hear the Minister explain a view on the combination of trade and power relations, which is the essence. The same applies to CETA and TTIP and TiSA and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think that is the very essence of the policy. Of course, the EPAs take into account the fact that the economies of Africa are very different from the economies of the European Union. And of course we are talking to investors, but also to the government of Ethiopia about questions such as how to ensure that there are investments that are good for everyone. Mr Smaling will understand that this is not right for everyone from now on, but it is the direction in which we push that. In general, Dutch companies do the same. Just if we had invested that trade somewhere else, without internal checks-and-balances, we would find ourselves in a situation that Mr Smaling sketches. Take the flower industry in Ethiopia. We work together with those flower growers, but also with Hivos, a social organisation in the Netherlands that helps to ensure that the working conditions in those farms are good. It is precisely that that has added value, and so it is experienced in those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u37	Please continue with your speech. Is this block finished now, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yeah, this block's pretty much finished, Mr. Chairman. I have some interesting facts here about what we have achieved over the past few years, but we also have a very nice website. I've demonstrated it, and that's something anyone can see. However, in response to a question from Mr Taverne, I would like to say one more thing about results. He cited a famous report from the World Bank, from Dollar and Pritchett. It's called Assessing Aid. What works, what doesn't, and why. The latter is, of course, a very good question. They should be a lot more people, even when it comes to other policy areas. The first sentence of that book is: " Foreign aid has at times been a spectacular success." Botswana, Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam are mentioned as examples. You can see that in those countries the effects of aid on economic growth and human development were quite spectacular. This means that these countries no longer have any or less aid. I think Indonesia is a good example. We will reduce the aid relationship that the Netherlands has with that country. However, that report is from a while ago. I would therefore like to draw Mr Taverne's attention to a recent research report by Tarp, Arndt and Jones. Perhaps Mr Taverne has seen it himself. These researchers show that the long-term effects of aid on economic growth are positive and significant. So it's not necessarily that you can do everything with help; let's not be naive. But what is the impact of aid on economic growth, besides the impact of all the other growth factors that can be there? Tarp, Arndt and Jones have calculated that when a poor country receives aid in the order of 10% of the gross national product, that GDP per capita grows by 1% annually. In addition to the "material" results, such as vaccinations for children, there is therefore also a macro-effect. They measured it. I believe that this is important because, of course, we also want to see this aid in a wider context of economic growth in countries, economic growth that everyone can benefit from. Mr Taverne is right to ask. By the way, Dutch aid is also beneficial for our own economy. The CPB has taken over results from a study showing that every ODA-euro up to €0.40 provides additional exports for the Netherlands. Anyway, it's not always a success story; let's be clear about that too. Mr Dijkgraaf asked for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr Dijkgraaf is now heading for the interrupting microphone. You will be served, I would say, Mr Dijkgraaf. But you may have a question about the foregoing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u40	Yes. Certainly, Mr President, trusting that the answer will not lead to another question in a moment. I hope so for you. The CPB has indeed taken over this. We were happy about that. We also asked questions about it last year. But the CPB has halved that effect. The report showed that the effect was twice as large as it is now included in the CPB model. I'm sorry about that. So far, you've been able to cut development cooperation with impunity. Now there's a bit of a fine on that. Can the Minister once again talk to the CPB to convince the people there that these figures are just right? So why is there that half ring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u41	I note that the CPB has halved to €0.40 because it says: you see effects particularly on bilateral aid, not necessarily to the same extent as you invest multilaterally. I think that's the background. I would like to say to Mr Dijkgraaf that I am talking to the CPB, but I would add that people are rarely open to opinions from people whose CPB thinks they are not entirely objective. I am, because this is research done by others. I'll put it to the CPB again, but I'd jog if I said I had faith in a happy ending. Let's be clear, €0.40 of every euro just comes back. That is what is happening in these models of the CPB, and that is very good news, as I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u42	That's a win. It'll be great when we pass on the election programs and cut parties a lot. I'm glad the Minister wants to start the conversation again. I have experiences of my own. I regularly have an election programme there and I know how difficult it is, but I also know that people want to listen in case of facts that have been scientifically substantiated, hence the attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u43	We're gonna do it. I said, of course, it's not always a success story. Sometimes you can just observe that when you're somewhere in a country. Sometimes research helps. We have a solid evaluation practice. All IOB investigations, the recommendations and what the cabinet has done with them can also be found on that famous website. So that's where one can look. In general terms, that was Mr Dijkgraaf's question, one can say that this new agenda of aid and trade is a result of learning. We have learned that economic growth in itself does not necessarily benefit everyone. We have also learned that we need to invest in economic growth in the private sector. It can create jobs for a growing population in Africa in particular. New policy is, if it is right, an outcome of what has been gained in evaluations and insights. We are very broad on this. Let us look very specifically at an evaluation of water and sanitation a few years ago. There were wells and they functioned. They were also well maintained, but still many children were ill. Turned out what? One went to that water pump or well with a bucket or a jug that was not clean. The clean drinking water was thus still contaminated. Those are on a very small scale of those interventions that you can do very quickly. In the context of evaluations, Mr Dijkgraaf will address this question much more often now, too, with the people concerned to hear their suggestions and ideas. Maybe that's a lesson we've learned. So Mr Dijkgraaf can see it by evaluation, but there is also something like a sum of everything you learn. Based on that, you change your policy. I'll stay with Mr Dijkgraaf for a while. He asked, "Do we reach the poorest?" That is also a lesson that has been learned over the past few years, over the past decade. Mr Taverne also asked about this, as did Mr Van Laar and Mrs Mulder. Do we reach out to the people we would like to reach, or does it stick with the people you already have easy access to, just to say so unkindly? Poverty has fallen dramatically over the last 15 years. There's still a group left behind. Apparently, it is not so easy to ensure that these people get income and equal rights. From the Netherlands and also internationally we have thought that there is a need for specific commitment for people who are sometimes literally overlooked. In the Global Goals there is a very specific reference to this: 'leave no one behind', please let us not leave anyone behind. We've done a few things, and I'll briefly show them. Within our own budget, we have formulated an action plan for inclusive development, focusing in particular on strengthening employment and entrepreneurship for women and for young people. In addition, we have been paying much more attention to people with disabilities in a number of ways for a year than before. We do so through a number of programmes to strengthen the voice of people with disabilities and by ensuring that they can organise themselves so that they are heard in the village and not hidden away because they cannot be there. Together with UNICEF, we have made sure that toilets are adapted in schools so that children with disabilities can also use them. Often that was the reason they couldn't go to school at all. There too it is sometimes very small when it comes to the impact, but it is also an orientation on what we think is important, because everyone counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u44	That was indeed an important point in my speech. I have a motion that I prefer not to make, because I think the Minister wants to go that way too. We are making a move, both in the budget and in the annual report, to work with more quantitative targets and to make it clear which instruments are being used, what is being achieved and how we can improve effectiveness. Does the Minister have the ambition to make this easier for the poorest people in the world to understand? I think it is beautiful lyrics and fine plans, but we can highlight them even more clearly if we also have objectives that are achieved through these instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u45	I'd certainly like to do that. We have recently strengthened this commitment, so it is still a little early to show results on a number of points. I sent a letter about where we stand in that action plan and what results we have achieved. That's pretty high-quality. Of course, it will also be reflected in all these fine results and in the budget later, as we agreed with the Chamber last year and this year. At the request of Mr Dijkgraaf, I will look into whether we can highlight this group well enough or whether it is still too much of a search. If I see that, I'm going to work. If Mr Dijkgraaf is not satisfied, I am sure I will be told.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u46	I think that is a good commitment. An SGP man then simply holds the motion in his pocket and waits to see what this minister comes up with. I am confident that the Minister will bring that group to the fore, as she has put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u47	That's what we're gonna do. A number of members also asked about the commitment of the Netherlands to combating child labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u48	I have a question on the same point, because the questions were about the same thing. The Minister states that she has only recently made an effort to meet the poorest. She's gonna find out if she can make that clearer for us, but when is she gonna do that? Our group has also done some thinking about a motion, but for me it is still the point when we can discuss it with each other. Otherwise, it's still a vague appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u49	That'll be a few moments. I did indeed send that letter to the Chamber or the letter will be sent about that action plan and what the results so far have been. That's a moment or a reason to talk about it. The second moment is, of course, next year, when I send the results report to the Chamber and we talk about the budget. Those are the moments we agreed to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u50	To what extent could the Minister report specifically on this in this year's annual report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u51	I'll look into that, but I don't think it's a problem at all. Technically, it's a result like any other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u52	The letter the Minister is talking about has already been sent to the Chamber. That is the letter on inclusive development cooperation. There is also a general consultation on this in December. Perhaps this additional information will help you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think it would be a good idea if we could talk about it again. If it is not yet sufficiently clear, then we can still table a motion later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u54	The Minister outlined the novelty we've been dealing with since setting the world targets. We recognise that people with disabilities have been given more priority since then. To what extent does the Minister see this change at European level? Is there also the realization that the mission has changed since the setting of world targets? Is it understood that other emphasis should be placed, that more attention should be given to the role of women, of people with disabilities and of groups who are lagging behind? Is there a specific commitment to this? Does the Minister see that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u55	I think we will have a general discussion next week on the Foreign Affairs Council's agenda on development cooperation, which will take place in two weeks' time. In it, all 28 ministers are sitting together and we are talking about the European Union's new strategy. The Commission has conducted a number of consultations, including here in the Netherlands. The Netherlands will, of course, ensure that the agenda proposed here in the Chamber becomes part of that European strategy. I will be happy to inform the Chamber of how far we have come. Mr Van Laar specifically asked about the position of women. The European Commission has put a lot of effort into this. Gender analyses are now being carried out. The monitoring of gender programmes is much sharper than before. I think that's a first good step, but more needs to be done. I had stayed on the subject of child labour. A number of Members called for attention to be paid to this. We'll talk about that at regular intervals. The coalition Stop Child Labour has achieved very good results, as Mr Voordewind said. He asked if I would be willing to make additional funds available for this in 2017. I will take that together with a request from Mr Van Laar. If I have understood him correctly, he also wants us not only to get on top of it, but also to make more visible what we are doing against child labour. It's a subject that lives wide in the Chamber. We also have a rather wide range of interventions, which has only been extended under the inspiring encouragement of the Chamber. I therefore say to Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Laar that I want to see if I can make it more visible in the budget. We can therefore report on it more visibly. I would also like to say to both gentlemen that I would like to see if I can put my finger on it. That may sound a bit noncommittal to them, but we know each other long enough, so I think they can know that I'm going to do my best. If that doesn't work, I'll be in touch too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u56	I thank the Minister for this commitment, or at least for the effort she intends to make. I was speaking specifically about the platform, the coalition Stop Child Labour, because it includes quite a few organisations that are involved in this. Is the Minister prepared to look at that platform in terms of funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u57	As part of that package, I'm gonna do it. The reason why I would like to take a favourable look at this is that that platform has achieved very good results; let us also make that clear. I just want to say a few things about the position of women and girls. I have already addressed Mr Van Laar's question about what is happening within the EU. He is also concerned about the influence of what he calls the "unholy alliance," in which a number of countries, but also the Vatican, in recent years, have wanted to stop a number of progressive innovations. I think it is a good thing that, in negotiations on treaties dealing with this issue, we are focusing on the creation of a counter-power, let me put it this way, with similar countries. I do not think that is enough. I believe that we too should have a dialogue with those countries which have a very different view of what women's rights are, that is to say with Pakistan and the Vatican, over the last few years. We do not have the illusion that they are necessarily one-on-one with us. By the way, there are very different views in this Chamber on some subjects. We need to see whether we can work together on certain issues. Another issue in this context was raised by Mr Taverne, who is concerned about rising birth rates in Africa. That concern is widely shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u58	Let me turn to the previous point. I asked a slightly broader question. Does the European Union work together, for example when it comes to women in top positions? When the Secretary-General of the United Nations is appointed, countries all say that she should be a woman. In the Security Council there are two European countries with a right of veto, and then it becomes a man from Europe. Something's gonna go wrong in that lobby, I'd say. That front's not closed. If we want to strengthen the position of women, the European Union must also express this explicitly and hold on to each other as a matter of urgency. What can the Minister do to make sure that happens next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u59	It was indeed not a closed front, everyone could see that. I agree with the Foreign Affairs Council that this is what I intend to do. It has partly to do with this domain, but it goes much wider. I admit that I am going to investigate how the Netherlands can use this. Perhaps a colleague, such as Minister Bussemaker or Minister Koenders, could do better. Then I go back to the rising birth rates in Africa, which Mr Taverne spoke about. He's not the only one who's worried about that for all kinds of reasons. In 2050, 9 billion people seized on this earth when it comes to food production, it is clear that only increasing production will not be enough. There must also be interventions in other areas. Experience has shown us that if women and girls can decide for themselves whether they want to marry, who they want to marry, whether they want children, with whom they want them and how many they want them, that usually leads to smaller families. Women are smart creatures and know that it is wise, if you want to send your children to school, to limit the size of your family. That is why the Netherlands invests in strengthening the position of those women and girls, at their request, so I say again. That's not enough. We must also ensure that, if they are in control of themselves, they also have the means to make that happen. The Netherlands invests in information about sex, also towards young people. We invest in the affordability and availability of contraceptives. We invest in research into new contraceptives. We are one of the major funders of UNFPA, the United Nations population fund. It is not the first time that Mr Taverne has made this point. He's talked about that before. We have already made additional resources available for this. I promise him that within the existing budget for sexual health and rights, I will investigate whether I can focus even more on this part. I will be happy to report on how we intend to do that. Mr Van Laar has drawn attention to the position of women and girls in conflict situations. We can talk about this for a long time, but we will not do that now. It is about ensuring that women are involved, for example, in peace negotiations, not because they are necessarily better people, but because they are half the world's population. He also wondered whether women's organisations could play a more prominent role, particularly in northern Syria, and whether we could examine whether financial support could be available for this. Thanks to a proposal from Mr Van Laar and Mrs Van Veldhoven, regional women's funds can be financed which can also work in that area. Good proposals are needed for this. I am happy to say that we will look favourably at it, as we always do, if there are any good proposals, I say to Mr Van Laar. This fits in with the idea of this intensification for women's organisations that Mrs Van Veldhoven and he wanted to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u60	I asked a question about this intensification in the first term. It has also been answered in writing, but unfortunately I cannot say that it makes me very happy. We have an article in the budget on social progress. You need different things for that. We see that the Chamber, by one hand, gives an additional 10 million for that article, but that the Minister, by the other hand, takes away 13 million for a job. Then there is de facto 3 million cut down on this article, which is so important. I know that this task also covers other articles, but in the field of the position of girls and women, the Netherlands can make a big difference, because there are so few other countries that dare to do so. That was also the argument for tabling the amendment last year. I'm asking the Minister to look into this, possibly with me. Otherwise, I will be tabling a new amendment to ensure that we maintain this spearhead, in which the Netherlands is so unique, even though there is this task. We cannot allow this to flow away in such a way that it is too important and there are too few other countries who dare to do so. Is the Minister willing to take a look at another cover with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mrs Van Veldhoven also knows that it comes from the length or width. We have not cut back on this article in recent years, for the reason Mrs Van Veldhoven calls it. With this mission we have it more widely spread, to say the domestic, and that has resulted in this outcome. At the same time, it is clear that the amount of 10 million a year proposed by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Van Laar is not affected by this task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u62	That's true. These are two different sub-articles. But how many countries dare to pay for sexual and reproductive health and rights so that women can have abortions in conflict zones? The Netherlands is one of the countries that can do that. If we don't do that anymore, when we say that we can't do that anymore, so many women are going to have so many problems for so long. That is not a healthy building situation for a country. The Netherlands must continue to invest in this. I know that the Minister has tried to divide this task equally between the budget, because I have seen it, but I think that this should be relieved in particular, because so few other countries do so. I will make a proposal to that effect. I like to think about it together with the Minister, if she has any ideas about it. Maybe she's already saying she's willing to take another look at it with us. I am also looking at Mr Van Laar. We were in favour of that amendment together last year. I can just imagine that he's not happy with a discount on this either, but I won't speak for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u63	No, usually he can speak very well for himself. I feel what Mrs Van Veldhoven says, but I also have a broader responsibility for the whole budget. That's why I tried to distribute it as balanced as possible. I see from her that she's not going to give way, so I'm waiting for her proposal. Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to talk about the subject raised by a number of Members, namely the humanitarian crisis that we are seeing in the world. Since World War II there have never been so many people on the run. The number of people who can no longer take care of themselves has increased enormously. Sixty million people depend on emergency aid and outside aid, often in their own region. That is why this last year the cabinet has also added additional funds to the budget, including 570 million for an emergency aid fund. Before 2017, there isn't much left in that, the MPs said, and that's right. They made a connection to the asylum influx. The first-year reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands is financed from the OS budget. All OECD/DAC countries do that. Depending on the number of people coming to the Netherlands, the budget is larger or less large. We have seen in recent years that the number of people who have come here has been greater than four years ago. For 2016 it was estimated that 58.000 people would come to the Netherlands. This week, the Chamber received a letter from the Secretary of State for Security and Justice stating that the asylum flow will be around 32,000 people in 2016. So the Cabinet has something to do with the Navy's note: it has to process this estimate. The cabinet will therefore inform the Chamber how it is going to use that money. It remains within the external trade and development cooperation budget. There is no reason why it shouldn't be; that's how it's always been. Following the revised estimate, but not only in response to it, MPs asked whether it was possible to make additional funding available for emergency aid. Some asked specifically about Dutch Relief Alliance. A motion has also been passed on this. I admit that we will look at it in the Navy's note. As a result, the conversation between the Chamber and me is a bit unfinished. We do have the adjusted estimate, but we follow the usual pattern. The financial implications will only become clear in the Navy's note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u64	It is an important point because 250 million additional savings will be made next year. It is therefore the closure of the cabinet's mandate. The cut is going up to 1 billion. We know that the windfall can be about 400 to 450 million, so it's quite a sum. Now we are talking about the Minister's budget for two days, but we are not going to know where that amount is going. Several Members of Parliament have tabled amendments and have ideas about where the money could go. However, we remain in the dark, because the Minister says that we should wait until the Navy note. Can I at least get confirmation from the Minister that the money remains reserved for development cooperation, that ODA expenditure remains? After all, the Minister says that it remains on the budget for trade and aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yes. Klip-and-ready. No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u66	I explicitly ask because the Minister is also responsible for international trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u67	They were ODA resources, and that's what it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u68	At the Wgo, I tabled a motion calling for attention to be paid to reception in the region. Once again, the Minister asked me to hold the motion until the budget debate. She would see when the cabinet could say something about it. Does she want to give her appreciation of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u69	Yes. It might be good to go into it briefly. If it is correct, the Chamber received a letter this week about care in the region. It is about the funds released last year, 260 million. The letter explains in which countries and how these funds will be used. It was already clear from the reservations of the funds that some of them would be multi-annual financing. Out of 260 million, 180 million will be spent in 2016 and 80 million in 2017, simply because some programmes go through longer. That's what we're doing right now. At the moment, I do not see any need to reserve additional resources specifically for this subject, if I had them at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u70	That amount, which will be spent part of next year, was already known during the WHO on Monday. If you see what the ratio between the different amounts is, then it seems that the year after that much less money is needed. There is no structural money anyway. We see that the conflicts in the world are not diminishing. In fact, I don't know if the situation in Syria is getting any better. Is this reduction in resources in line with the desire expressed by many parties to at least give people a decent life in the region? I'm really afraid there's not enough resources for that. That's what aid organisations say. They are concerned about the approaching winter, about the few resources. That's not gonna be any different next year. Are we gonna be okay with that low budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u71	You might have to keep two things apart. First of all... An additional EUR 260 million investment has been made. It covers a period of two years, because programmes to be launched cost more and the year after less or the other way around. So this is extra money. If you have 260 million in 2016, it soon seems that you have less in 2017, but of course it remains extra money. Second. In recent years, we have been able to draw on the relief fund in addition to the regular emergency aid budget. Like I said, there's not that much money in there anymore. I have, of course, heard the concerns of the Chamber about this, but at the same time we have our regular emergency budget. I have no illusion that this will not go on, because the needs are indeed great. Again, I know about the motion that has been passed and I know about the Navy Note. I think that we need to look at how this materializes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u72	We shall therefore continue to discuss this issue in the course of the year. Then I'll hold on to that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u73	One of the most important things we say to our people in our country is that we think it is important that care is properly arranged there. It is true, as the Minister says, that this year more of the extra money goes to the region. Next year it would be 80 million euros. I'll roughly figure it out. The total amount that is left over from the budget for external trade and development cooperation in the Autumn paper is perhaps around EUR 350 million. The Minister also has a deficit in her current budget. I imagine that's where money has to go. We would also like to make money available for the Dutch Relief Alliance. There are several things we want money to go to. Undoubtedly, some of them will have to go there as well. Suppose next year's need in the region is higher than we might now estimate, will the Minister look into it? Is that her starting point? After all, we are spending extra money on one side or the other. People can come across the sea in crappy boats and die as their boat sinks. For those who make it, we'll pay here anyway. I think it's pretty harsh to say that 80 million is enough. I find that very difficult, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u74	I understand that from Mrs Mulder, but I repeat what I said to Mrs Van Veldhoven. Last year at this time, the 260 million weren't there. That amount was added to the budget in 2016. Let me give the following answer to Mrs Mulder's and mine concerns. It is right; there is still a deficit in the budget. That must of course also be resolved. For the rest, however, I would like to repeat what I have just said to Mrs van Veldhoven. We are going to talk about this in the debate on the Year's Note. We have had debates on this before, but I think it is clear to everyone that the need in the region is very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u75	Is the cabinet planning to discuss the Autumn note before the House votes on the amendments to the budgets? Because that seems to me to be very desirable. I do not know about this planning, but I do need to know it, because in the end it is about the overall budget and all the considerations we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yes, Mr President, that is a very good question from Mrs Mulder. I'm not quite ready for that either, but perhaps you are, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u77	To my knowledge, we should vote on the amendments earlier. In the cycle, I think we should vote on it by 8 December, after we have dealt with the last budget. According to tradition, the Navy's note comes in the last week before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u78	As Finance spokesman, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u79	That's what I thought. I saw you look like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr Dijkgraaf, how you are from many markets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u81	Yeah, that's the big advantage of a small party. We're trying to keep the number of seats down. It's gonna take a lot of effort. My question, however, is why exactly the Minister refers to the Navy Note in this discussion. We now have the budget. A budget is just a bill. In the case of all kinds of legislative proposals, we see that there will be a letter of amendment if there are any new insights between the submission at Prinsjesdag and the discussion here. So could the Minister not simply come forward with a letter of amendment in the short term? 'Cause then we're gonna avoid a discussion like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u82	The agreement is to incorporate the budgetary consequences of revised estimates in the cycle we have just described. So that's with the Navy Note. I think it would be wise to hold on to that. That's the way we've been working over the past few years. We haven't always sought all kinds of intermediate moments, but we just did it in that cycle. That's, I think, a good deal. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u83	I understand that, and normally that's a good order. But we are dealing here with the following point: we have a great deal of luck, at least for OS, there are several amendments tabled by Members of Parliament, and I have tabled one myself, and this is actually a very good source of coverage for that. If we put on the naughty shoes, we'll just say we're covering through the windfall. I don't know how happy the Minister will be. It would be nice if we had the full debate on both the amendments and the windfall and what the Minister himself wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u84	I would like to repeat the agreements we have made on this subject. The Secretary of State recently revised the estimate. That is, of course, new information. And we can count on beer skins, but it is used that the financial implications are incorporated into the Navy's Note. This is usually the case; Mr Dijkgraaf knows that as spokesman for Finance. This is the route we'll end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u85	Then we have to count our buttons and think about how we are going to deal with them. I am also aware of the fact that, in exceptional cases, there will be a letter of amendment from the cabinet. This seems to me to be a reason, precisely because there are budget deficits and because there are great wishes in the Chamber. So if a creative way could be found, in which both ideals are realized, I would find that ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u86	For the moment, I am sticking to the Navy's note, which is so clear throughout the budget cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u87	I'd like to get through to this point. Can the Minister give us any indication as to what bandwidth this windfall is going to fall into? Because the more certain we are about the means, the easier we can act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u88	No, I cannot, because of course the financial implications of such an updated estimate are not alone. We've been talking about a deficit that's still going to be resolved. All this is presented to the Chamber in the Navy's Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u89	But where did the stories about the 400 million come from? So what exactly is the point of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u90	Those stories come from beyond the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u91	I do sympathise with Mr Dijkgraaf, in particular because ODA, official development aid, has a different system. If there is a windfall in the budget, we are going to consider in full how it should be spent in the Year's Note. But basically it has to go back to the general resources and then it goes somewhere else. But ODA remains ODA. So could the Minister not include in her transfer file that this is a point of attention in the budgetary system? If a windfall occurs within ODA, he should also be able to get a re-destination within ODA. This should also be possible in the course of the year, between the budgetary moments, if the Minister and the Chamber allow it. Because it seems to me that we shouldn't have to wait for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u92	Does Mr Van Laar mean the transfer file to another cabinet? I'll consider that. It's the first time I'm probably gonna hand something over, and I honestly don't know what's customary to include in a file like that. But I think it's definitely worth it. I'll take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u93	I'll put another dime in the bag. I do find the Minister's answer satisfactory. We know the influx is slowing down. That will also have a financial component. We just don't know how high it is. Less inflow means less reception, but the beds are already there and they are not free. An autumn note is the appropriate time to adjust this, in proportion. If the Minister wants to put something about this in the transfer files, she should do so in particular, but I think that a little too much is being asked now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u94	That wasn't really a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr President, I think I shall now put a point of order. I'm not sure that's the case, but I'll leave that to your assessment. We'll get the Navy Note at the end of November. Last year it came on November 27th. That is well before we vote on the amendments. We are discussing the budget of the Minister of Finance in the last week before the recess. That's too late for those votes. We should be able to hold an OS meeting with Minister Ploumen between 27 November and the votes, in which we can make an overall assessment of what is in the Navy's note and how it relates to our amendments. After that, we could vote neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u96	If I'm right, this is about the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u97	I wholeheartedly support that proposal. This is not satisfactory. In this way, we could neatly segregate it for the overall budget treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u98	This is actually more of an arrangement than a point of order. For this treatment there should be a majority. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u99	Well, technically, we should park this right now, I guess. So we should not make the decision here and now to do so. I do find it interesting to know if there is support for this. If there is no support for it, it does not have to go further into the mill. However, the official establishment of this will have to take place elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u100	I put this question to Mr Dijkgraaf. This gives me a kind of poll of support for this proposal. I think it would be a good idea to park this and take it to a procedural meeting or elsewhere, in order to see how this can be further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u101	I think this is a nice thought. I suppose we can discuss this anyway. Plenair probably won't fit, so it should be in an AO anyway. Let's just take this to the next procedural meeting and ask the Registry how all these things relate to each other. So I can also consult with our financial specialists, who probably also have an opinion on this. I'm sure we can pour it into a nice barrel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u102	I would like to repeat that I felt that the Minister gave a satisfactory answer. I do not think this is the time to change the whole budgetary system and treatment. It is all very sympathetic and it is an important subject, but we have agreed rules and we have to follow them. I am happy to talk about this in a procedural meeting, but I do not want to support this in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u103	Again, this is not decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u104	This is a creative proposal from the SGP, which we are happy to support. But I can also imagine Mr Van Laar's space. I hope it can work this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u105	This whole fluctuating system of refugees is a huge budget drain, so, because of its total size, we are not really able to budget properly. That is at least a reason for me to support Mr Dijkgraaf's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u106	There is really no point in supporting this, because we must all do this in a procedural meeting, in which we do have a decision. That route would also allow us to table amendments, even though we have now had the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u107	Exactly. As President, I note that we are now parking this item and that you are going to discuss it in the procedural meeting and, if necessary, bring it back to the plenary. There are various means at the disposal of the Chamber for this. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u108	I would like to reassure you, Mr President, that I have two points to make, namely the climate and the trade agreements, and how both have to do with each other. First, the climate. Yesterday, in its first term, the Chamber expressed its concerns about the impact of global warming on poverty and on vulnerable areas and people. She also wondered how, as a collective global community, we can ensure that people can adapt to climate change as well as keep it within our control, as agreed in the Paris Agreement. The Netherlands must of course also do its part. There were some concerns about that too. The good news is that COP22, the international climate conference, will take place next week. The declaration prepared at that summit, on which there is now consensus, reaffirms the commitment of the international community to make available 100 billion dollars as a collective, in various forms. It is clear that this 100 billion will be made up of both private and public resources. That is exactly the way the Netherlands would like to deal with its share in this. That is what the Vos/Klaver motion has been adopted on. Mr Van Laar asked about the implementation of that motion; this is part of it. On 7 July, I sent a letter to the Chamber stating the multiannual plan for climate finance. This multi-annual plan consists of three main elements: further integration of climate into water, food security and energy programmes, increased commitment of multilateral institutions, such as the World Bank, to climate change, and strengthening cooperation with the private sector. So where are we gonna get out of? In 2015, with that combination of audience and private, the Netherlands came out at 440 million; for 2017 it was 660 million. I say to Mr Smaling that there is a great deal of discussion in this area between Mr Dijksma and myself. She and I are both part of the Dutch delegation at the summit. To make it even more beautiful: next year we move in together. We'll all go to the building near the station that, I hope, will be climate-neutral. I suppose that's true, but I'll check again. Of course, a letter on progress will follow after the summit. So much for the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u109	I dare not guarantee that all government buildings are climate-neutral. However, let us hope that such a renovated building perfectly meets all standards. I have two questions about the climate. We have just had the election of a president who said at least during his campaign that he does not intend to contribute to solving the climate problem, perhaps because he does not believe in it. Only by denying the problem, we will not solve global warming. Is the Minister prepared to call on America, in the statement of the Netherlands, to give a fair share to the objectives we set together in Paris? My second question is about what we are doing with the Dutch Good Growth Fund to fund projects in countries that are heavily affected by the climate. I said earlier that we should not finance a tomato farm in the Sahara. Can we systematically check whether investments that we support are really sustainable in the sense that they can be sustained in the long term and contribute to growth in those countries that fit within the limits of the planet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u110	Let me start with the first point. The United States has just elected a new president, the president-elect, as it is called. In his campaign, he has indeed expressed his opinion on the climate. But what matters is in what way he is going to give shape and content to it during his presidency. The deeds count. The United States, like other countries, has committed itself to the implementation of the Paris Agreement. I don't see any reason to make a special call right now. That's what they've committed themselves to, and that's where we're standing now. The second question was about the Dutch Good Growth Fund. We have a rather robust test for these programmes, such as OECD guidelines and everything that goes with them. We are also looking at the sustainability of the investment in a broad sense. It would be a little silly to help people adapt to climate change and invest in it and, on the other hand, grow tomatoes in the Sahara. It is part of the test, but I would like to say to Mrs Van Veldhoven that I will look at this very carefully. As far as I know, we do it in a good and solid way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u111	I'm going to go into that last point. The aquifers are used up that its underground water layers are exhausted all over the world. There is still water, but they are exhausted and no longer replenished. It may therefore be possible for some time to come, but it will not be sustainable in the long term. It is a real focus for water resources in particular. I would ask the Minister to look at this again in particular: is this in all the directives and is the latest knowledge properly used? I will come back to the first point. Let us hope that nothing changes at all and that America will naturally keep up with all its commitments, but if there is reason to, I hope that the Netherlands will be very firm in taking that responsibility, including through America. I understand that the news of Trump's choice as the new president of America has arrived at COP. So it's a signal we can't let go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u112	Again, we will let the deeds count, as we do with each other and with others. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the aquifers. I'll definitely look into that. I intend to include this in the next interim report on the Dutch Good Growth Fund and outline any dillemas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u113	The minister's a little in the negative. I read in the answers to my questions: there is global consensus that climate policy is necessary. That's kind of yesterday's news. I brought in some of Mr Trump's tweets. I'll read one of them in English, if you don't mind. It's a little undiplomatic, though. In that tweet he talks about the very extensive global warming bullshit. We can see that the policy in America is already running. The head of EPA, the Environmental Protection Agency, is someone who doesn't believe in Al Gore's climate theory. All kinds of trade agreements that were concluded from that globalist agenda and that were so bad for America have been terminated, already this afternoon. So Mr Trump is going in hard. This minister's house of cards is built on the idea that Mr Trump will join Al Gore's theories and continue to finance. Doesn't she understand that there's been another wind blowing? How did she prepare herself for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u114	Like I said, the election was the day before yesterday. In his campaign, Mr Trump has been clear about the way he looks at climate change. We will judge his actions. If he's in the White House and has policy intentions, we'll find out and then we'll be operating on business. He's got a little time till January, so we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u115	Yes, but everyone could see coming that Mr Trump would win. He was extremely popular. That's what's shown up here. We know the minister as someone who looks far ahead. I assume she's been preparing for America, which has to spend a lot of money on that whole Paris and Marrakesh story, to say, "We're just not going along." I assume the Minister is prepared for that, so what then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u116	I am almost touched by Mr Bosma's concern that a country does not comply with its climate commitments. I would like to reassure him: for the time being, the signature of the United States is under that agreement. If the new president wants to change his line, we'll hear about it. We will undoubtedly assess that and discuss it with each other. That seems to me to be a sensible course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u117	Let's say everything's going on. Then there are still a lot of opportunities for Dutch business. I would like to thank the Minister for replying in writing to a large number of questions. The Minister states in her letter on climate change that a consortium of ECN, Atradius and the University of Wageningen is currently working to identify these opportunities for the Dutch business community in projects particularly with multilateral climate funds. My question is specific: when will that be ready? That's not what the letter says. It may also be returned in the second term. A question from me about the Dutch Good Growth Fund has also been answered in writing. That question was: who will ultimately have access to the appropriations? We have also put it in particular for the missing middle. I am not quite clear from the answer given by the Minister whether it will get there. The Minister writes: there may be 1,500 transactions ranging from €5,000 to 5 million. But that doesn't really mean anything to me. Maybe the Minister can come back to that? It is fine if she does so in the second term or if she brings it into the letter promised to Mrs Van Veldhoven, because it requires a little more research. That is why we have set up the Dutch Good Growth Fund with each other. So we would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u118	If we don't do something, climate change will continue. In this respect, the work of the consortium remains of course relevant. I would like to come back to that in second place. Then I'll tell you when it's expected to be ready. Mrs Mulder has asked a question about the Dutch Good Growth Fund. I had just made an attempt to give more insight than the average. When it comes to purchasing power, which is often discussed in this Chamber, we always say: those point clouds, those averages and that median, they are of course quite beautiful. But it'll just be you down there somewhere! Are you gonna be okay in that graph? That is why I chose not to give an average, but to say that there is a fairly broad margin of funding. I was gonna say "range," but I'm gonna get my ass kicked by the president. It's all invading what I'd like to qualify as the missing middle. Of course, the highest segment is almost excluded, but the lower segment is part of that. I therefore have no objection to calculating the average, but my point is that I believe that this gives much less information on the matters that Mrs Mulder is looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u119	Maybe the minister and I won't understand each other right now. I am concerned with the question of whether a table could include the amounts spent on average. This could be split into amounts up to €50,000, amounts up to €100,000 and amounts above that. Then you can see if the majority is EUR 5 million at a time. Then the money was spent quickly. Then you come back to the discussion we had on Monday. Are you giving it to 100 or 50 stakeholders and what's the return on that? That's basically what I'm talking about. Perhaps the Minister could put something like this in a table, not in the prose we have now received.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u120	I'd be happy to admit it. That's what I do in that letter. That's actually kind of a midterm review. I will indicate in second term when we foresee it. That'll probably be a few months from now. I come to speak about the new generation of trade agreements. We briefly spoke about this yesterday. We have briefly discussed the need for a reset, a rethink of the trade agreements. I have noted from the debates with the Chamber that the Chamber shares this need with me. At least I think three things should happen. First of all... Trade agreements must be concluded within the framework of the new global goals that we have set with each other and the Paris climate agreement. How can such an agreement contribute to achieving these objectives? Second. The negotiation processes must be transparent. All interested parties should be able to make their views known. There have already been enormous changes to this transparency, but I think it can be done even better. In early 2017, I will set up a broad trade council in which the various stakeholders in the Netherlands, such as trade unions, industry and civil society, can join. I would also like them to have access to negotiating documents in progress in the negotiations. We need to discuss with this broad trade council how we can shape this. That seems extremely important to me. On the third point, we have often discussed in this Chamber: how can as many people as possible benefit from the profits of these agreements? If there are sectors in danger of getting into trouble, what can we do about accompanying measures? There will be a specific letter on part of the agricultural sector, in relation to the agreement with Canada. But that's my bet. There's another Foreign Affairs Council on Trade tomorrow. Then I'll put that back in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u121	It is in itself an interesting insight that the Minister gives to the new generation of trade agreements. I would like to point out to the Minister that, if you think about trade agreements, it is better to think about them in these terms than in terms of: let us do nothing more in the area of agreements. However, I still have some scepticism and doubt. This has to do with the fact that it remains below the figure of trade agreements. The question is what exactly is in what framework, i.e. what is now a priority and what is a retroactivity. Do I interpret the Minister correctly as saying that trade interests are subordinate to the climate agreement and the other points she has raised? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u122	That's a little debate that can get a little semantic soon. I am trying to avoid that, because that is what Mr Grashoff is trying to avoid. A trade agreement is concluded with the primary aim of facilitating trade and making it easier for companies to act, within the framework of international agreements on sustainability. That's clear. This wish remains, of course, the driving force behind the negotiations. It is also clear that these trade agreements will not be concluded in isolation. The world has made agreements to combat poverty. It is therefore wise to consider how to make these trade agreements work in a positive way within that framework. Often it is looked from the orientation "make sure it doesn't harm now." Maybe that's progress. I would just like to go a step further and say: how can you make a contribution? For example, a green goods agreement is now being negotiated, i.e. goods and services that contribute to a green and circular economy. That is very specific, so it is quite obvious. I would like this approach to be taken as a matter of course in other trade agreements. If you don't do it to facilitate trade, you don't need the agreement. That would be the first part of my answer. The second part of my answer is that it is absolutely work in progress. This is the proposal from the Netherlands. I have already shared it with a number of colleagues. The Canadian colleague thinks it is an extremely interesting idea. When I spoke to American people a few months ago, they also found it interesting. So I do see growing support for this approach. But I still can't say we're there at the part where I need all the others. We can do this broad trade council nationally, and I am going to do it nationally. So it's still work in progress. If it is all a bit more elaborate, perhaps I can answer Mr Grashoff's question again. In other words, he might be able to test whether what I propose fits his view of what it should be like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u123	I would like to ask two more questions. Firstly, I have an informative question. Is the Minister prepared to draw up a clearer, more concrete outline of her ideas in the Chamber before the change of cabinet in the early spring? I believe that this is extremely important for the future. That is certainly what the Minister says interesting things about: I want it not only not to interfere, but also to contribute to it. I have the impression that this calls for a completely different approach, including legal one. I'm not a lawyer, but I think you'll get very different legal wordings in such a trade agreement. So that is a rather complicated issue. Is the Minister prepared to report on this? My second question is perhaps a rhetorical one. Will the Minister make use of the fact that we can at least reduce TTIP to zero in the reset? Then we can start thinking about such a trade agreement from scratch along this new approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u124	On the first question, I'd like to say yes. I look forward to the debate with the Chamber on this, as well as the suggestions and proposals made by the Chamber. On the one hand, it may be a political orientation, but on the other hand, as Mr Grashoff says, it is undoubtedly a technically complex exercise. On the second point, I would like to say the following. As regards the previous Trade Council, I have already said: TTIP is in the pause mode. We'll see how that develops. There will indeed be a new president in the United States. We must, of course, hear from him what his intentions are about that trade agreement. I also said that I think we should use that pause to rethink the question of how a trade agreement, in this case the trade agreement between the EU and the United States, is now contributing along the lines I have just outlined. Tomorrow I will speak to my colleagues in the Trade Council. After January, it will also be clear what the United States stands for. I think I can give a more complete answer to Mr Grashoff's question. I am sure we will be able to talk about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u125	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u126	No, Mr President, because now I find the Minister a little too patient. On the one hand, there is an ambitious dot on the horizon and so on. On the other hand, there is a situation where we know that TTIP is actually just a dead horse. Even under the Obama administration, it already is. We already know a little about this and we know how we think about it here in Europe. But now the Minister is talking about a "recess stand" and she wants to "see how they look at it." Surely this is an excellent moment when the Minister himself could say: I quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u127	I said that the pause button has been pressed and this is an excellent time to discuss with each other how we are going to proceed. We are still in the EU with 28 and the Americans have a position. Of course, there is no doubt that the Netherlands will then bring in the points that we consider important, including those that I have outlined here. However, I cannot give Mr Grashoff any indication at the moment, given the uncertainties, of how feasible this new orientation is for the large whole of the Netherlands plus the 27 other Member States and the United States. It is clear, however, that this is the starting point for the Netherlands in assessing where we are now and how we should proceed. We also had a very sharp ESC opinion on this. Mr Smaling asked a question about TiSA, the agreement on international trade in services. A letter has also been drawn up on this subject. Yesterday, a bit of a suggestion was raised as if we had never talked about it before and that TiSA would suddenly, oops, come around the corner. But it's not. I thought I'd add it up. We have informed the Chamber 23 times in writing and we have discussed it 19 times. You know me, the 24th or the 20th time I like to do it again, because it is an important subject. The pressing concern of the Chamber is the question of what influence TiSA has on our public services. I'll say it again, ready-to-use: TiSA doesn't call for, and certainly doesn't require, the privatisation of services. The EU has a broad exception for public services. Governments can decide for themselves what they find a public service and what they don't. The current freedom of policy on public services is thus fully maintained. Why is TiSA interesting, especially for a country like the Netherlands, which is also large in services besides its manufacturing industry? It is important that such a service agreement ensures that there is sufficient consumer protection around e-commerce, the digital economy, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a digital contract is given the same status as a signature on a piece of paper. These are all very practical things that sometimes make things very difficult. That's what TiSA's about. Again, it's not about public services. Our vision of what is a public service remains entirely up to us. Mrs Thieme asked about the free trade agreement with Japan, particularly in relation to whaling. The Netherlands wants an end to whaling. Mrs Thieme has every support for that position. I let my Japanese colleague know that myself. That is also a point in the negotiations. The good news is that such a free trade agreement can have a solid sustainability paragraph. That is what we want, and that is the commitment of the Netherlands since the start of the negotiations. In such a paragraph, agreements can be made on topics such as whaling. How to deal with that? How to take that down? How to limit that? How to stop that? I would therefore like to say to Mrs Thieme that the free trade agreement and the negotiations on it offer an excellent opportunity to discuss this issue. Mr Taverne asked about the steel sector and anti-dumping policy. I just sent a set of written questions to the Chamber on the agenda of tomorrow's Trade Council. That is what we are going to discuss in detail at this point of concern. There are actually two ways of solving the problems of overcapacity in the steel market. One. We need to talk to each other about how we are going to reduce overcapacity. For this purpose, a platform was established at the G20 Trade Council in Shanghai. That is in the OECD context, so that is a dialogue, one might say. Two. In the EU, we have measures that protect us from unfair competition, such as anti-dumping measures. It is clear that we need to strengthen these anti-dumping measures further. The Commission and a number of Member States have made proposals for this. They relate, for example, to the speed with which the anti-dumping measures can be taken and the basis for calculating what is now dumping. So there are several buttons that can be turned on. So far it has not been possible to reach agreement on this in the Council. There will be new proposals tomorrow, as we have been told. I know a motion was passed in the Chamber on Tuesday. We will, of course, take this motion to heart when we consider these proposals. I'll inform the Chamber about that. I think I've answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u128	A lot of questions have been answered, but still two small questions remain. One of them has been answered in writing, but I have one more question. It is about the possibility for embassies to support SMEs in countries where there is a development to actually bring interesting and innovative products on the market. The Minister writes that there are possibilities, but I have the impression that sometimes embassies would like to do more. That is why I had asked to see if some additional resources could be made available. It is precisely countries that are not our traditional partner countries, but really countries that are growing and for which it is so crucial that they grow green. Perhaps the Minister could say a little more specifically about the proposal. It is about making contact, for example, organising a seminar. That takes some lubricating oil, so I say it very simply. My second question concerns women's organisations. We have just had a discussion on the overall budget, but I understand that the size of the resources needed to organise emergency support efficiently and effectively does not relate to cutting that aid into many different blocks, all of which need to be requested separately. I have already made a comment on its project funding in the first term. The Minister knows the problem very well and I would like to ask her for a reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u129	The first question was about green growth. I would like to say to Mrs van Veldhoven that I will look into that again. I do not know whether there is a need for additional resources or a possibility of being pushed forward, but I would like to come back to that. As far as women's organisations are concerned, it is true that we are working with tenders, specifically aimed at a particular problem. This means that some women's organisations can finance activities from different tenders. That's how it's organized, and that's for a reason. The Netherlands is one of the world's largest funders of women's rights and certainly women's organisations. It has not come to my attention that there would be major problems, but it sometimes requires an adjustment of the way in which organisations are structured or finance their activities. Let's be clear about that. Perhaps in a transitional period this will not always be easy. I can imagine that, but it is also really the responsibility of the organisations themselves to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u130	That's right. That's why it happened. Yet it may be that even a good reason sometimes has unintended effects. When it comes to more efficient organisation of activities, this good reason in practice can lead to effects that we did not intend to have. Would it be possible for me to bring this to the attention again and then a little more detail than this evening in the Chamber, and would the Minister please look again at whether these good reasons relate to these effects? We shall then be able to discuss this at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u131	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u132	And I thank the Minister for her commitment on the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u133	I would also like to use the results in America to try again around these large free trade treaties the kidneys of this minister. My colleague Jasper van Dijk usually does that. I would like to thank the Minister for the feedback on TiSA, but CETA will also be holding a referendum in the near future. As far as TTIP is concerned, the Minister pushes the pause button. Why she's operating on this file as a hardcore right-wing liberal, I just don't get it. These are treaties which will lead to a shift in employment rather than an increase in employment, according to the Central Planning Office. People will get zero-hour contracts or flex contracts and they will be cut. So it is a completely neoliberal operation that people are not waiting for, not here and in the United States. Why does the Minister hold on to something that serious studies show doesn't create additional jobs? I would like to mention the NAFTA Convention in North America. That seemed so simple with those three countries, but it did not create new jobs. On the contrary. Isn't this a good time to get out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u134	It is interesting to hear such different sounds in a time span of a minute or seven. First of all, I am complimented by one party on the left for the effort, well, it was a compliment from Mr Grashoff and a few minutes later Mr Smaling gave me all sorts of less complimentary statements. We have talked about it many times: NAFTA is difficult to compare with CETA in this sense, because it is a trade agreement between economies that were truly unequal. The economies of Mexico and the United States are organized differently, different sizes and so on. This also means that its effects are different from the positive effects we would like to see in a treaty between the European Union and Canada. CETA is a treaty that should also benefit SMEs, because in that treaty, for example, we agree not to do the same technical test twice and no longer have to put two different labels with the same information on a lipstick. It should therefore benefit SMEs and consumers in particular. It is true that there are different outcomes regarding the impact, also depending on the models used. I have studied this very much. For example, I have spoken about this with Mr Capaldo, who really uses a different model than Ecorys, for example. It is clear to us that a lot of sectors, and therefore for a lot of people in the Netherlands, will benefit overall from CETA. This also shows the impact analysis that went to the Chamber a while ago following the debate we had here. It could be less effective for intensive livestock farming in particular. We are looking at how we can work with this sector to deal with any adverse effects. In addition, of course, there is a sturdy section around sustainability and we have with the Canadians that can carry the emasculated ICS for grave and introduce a new model. We are working with them, among other things, on a multilateral court. The Netherlands is now investigating whether we can also have a binding dispute resolution mechanism if, for example, NGOs and trade unions think there is something to settle. The results of this study are being looked forward to with interest, among others by the Canadians. We have, therefore, taken significant steps, also helped by the progressive government of Trudeau, which we found on our side, so to speak. I therefore believe that CETA is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u135	There's nothing against trade at all. We've been trading with those countries for a long time. Firstly, perhaps the Americans are going to hitch a ride on the treaty if there is at some point with Canada. Secondly, the Americans insist on that dispute resolution mechanism when it comes to TTIP. It's just crazy that you're going to undermine your own rule of law by building dispute resolution mechanisms where multinationals are going to get in control! It is ridiculous for words that a dispute resolution committee could lie down for the proposal, which Mr Van Laar is making, to legally anchor that companies are not involved in child labour! People just don't feel like that kind of globalization on that scale. Why can't the Minister see that? The Labour Party has separated a whole range of sounds about this from all for and against, so explain to me how things stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u136	I would really like to say again: that dispute resolution mechanism does not do what Mr Smaling is now accusing it of, and rightly not; neither would we want it to. No one wants that. It wasn't like that, and it certainly isn't like that. We have negotiated with the Americans and we have said: listen, we believe that the mechanism that is now in place has a number of disadvantages. We have improved it and want to continue on that basis of improvement. This is our offer. When the European Union says 'this is the new standard', it is clear that this is the new standard. There is no point in speculating what the Americans want or do not want, but this is the position of the European Union. As far as I am concerned, it is crystal clear and very much supported by your Chamber and, moreover, by colleagues from the people who are here today and who are also motivated by adopted motions. We have been able to improve that with each other. I think that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u137	I don't know who I saw first. I thought Mr. Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u138	The fact that there are different views on the left and that different types of compliments are given on the position of the Minister in the field of free trade shows that the left is divided. I note that the Minister continues to be positive about free trade agreements. It provides a number of examples of how, among other things, the initial proposal has been improved with regard to CETA, including the alternative component of dispute resolution. This has to do, among other things, with the lack of democratic legitimacy and the involvement of the people who can experience it all. It gives an example of the fact that NGOs and trade unions are now being called on to participate as parties. But if you see the declining membership numbers of the unions in the Netherlands, you can ask how representative they are. The same applies to NGOs. To what extent should this type of organisation, which to a lesser extent has representative legitimacy, be involved in this type of dispute resolution process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u139	You must distinguish two things. In the new ICS, those who consider themselves interested can report for that case. It already is. Secondly, we are now examining how, in addition to companies, others who believe that the provisions of the Convention are not being complied with within the rather strictly defined frameworks can also be given a place to deal with a dispute in such an arbitration form. That investigation is now under way. There are a number of technical aspects to this. How can you shape that, how do you prevent it from doubling? That study was completed at the end of this year and I can imagine that we will discuss it further. Those who consider themselves interested are interested. That's how it goes. The Netherlands has a long and exceptionally good tradition in which the broad polder as an interested party speaks along, thinks along and not only provides support, but also comes up with ideas and concepts. So it fits in with the Dutch tradition. Once again, the research will be completed at the end of this year. We will then come up with an appreciation and then there will undoubtedly be further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u140	Let me take it this way that the Minister is trying to give a Dutch interpretation of her continuing commitment to free trade and free trade agreements. Perhaps the Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u141	Yeah, in broad. It's a reset, but this is definitely part of that. I say to Mr Taverne that I did advertise this with my colleagues. It is an interesting option to negotiate free and fair trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u142	First of all, I feel a little challenged...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u143	I shouldn't have said that, because it wasn't a compliment, I can tell from your face.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u144	No, I would like to repeat that I did compliment the Minister. That compliment is serious, and that was about the thoughts she has on a new generation of trade agreements and the approach she has chosen, and of course she has heard that very well. The Minister should not deliberately distort my words, that I would suddenly call for CETA or even TTIP. That was what Mr Smaling said. Mr Smaling and I do not disagree on these agreements for a millimeter. In the field of development cooperation, we are quite related, as well as Mr Taverne and the PVV are related to a cynical, selfish story about development cooperation that makes my pants fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u145	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u146	The Minister has explained in detail to us the point of spending money on development cooperation, which I share wholeheartedly. Does she agree with me that this is a more sensible use of money than having tax advantages for expats who earn above the beaming norm?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yeah, I was a little prepared for this, but thank you for the compliments. I really did not want to twist your words, but you can imagine that it was an interesting sensation. Yesterday Mr Dijkgraaf also talked about this arrangement. It is a scheme that has been in place for a long time and is part of a wider system. This one doesn't belong to my wallet and I don't really have the ins and outs in mind, I have to be honest. You can imagine that the Minister for Development Cooperation is trying to do as much as possible to ensure that developing countries can develop themselves. That is why I am working on fair tax treaties. That would be my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u148	That's a very nice answer. I hear a minister who says, in very covert terms, that it is not appropriate, on the one hand, to give tax advantages above the beaming standard and, on the other hand, to undress my budget. I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u149	In the interest of time, I shall not go into this further. There are different interests and they are weighed against each other. Let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u150	Finally, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u151	I hope Mr Grashoff's pants are right again. Cynic and selfish is what the predecessor of GroenLinks, the PPR, did, namely to support organisations that committed genocides with Dutch development aid, but Mr Grashoff does not look at a thousand corpses more or less, apparently. There are still two small dots left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u152	I give the floor to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u153	I don't do it easy, but this is a personal fact. I do not want to be explicitly associated with genocide, nor do I want my predecessors to be. If Mr Bosma does so, it is really not up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u154	I'd like to explain, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u155	I would say: ask the Minister your question, because that is the debate we are having right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u156	Just a few words about the written answers on the Clinton Foundation. I am surprised that a part of this, namely Clinton Development Initiative, is referred to as an effective and effective partner. In the last Wikileaks there was a management analysis carried out by the Clinton Foundation. The complaint is that there is no management experience, let alone in the field of charities. These are analyses that are being carried out. Still, there's Dutch tax money going to that Clinton Foundation. I know it's not ODA money and it's not money from this department, but it's HGIS money. Every year we get a nice overview of this minister of the HGIS funds. In 2015, there is the Clinton Foundation. This is done on the basis that this Clinton Foundation is proving to be decisive and effective. That Clinton Foundation was a bribe organization. That's where you gave money and then you got deals through Mrs. Clinton. That money also went to Mrs Chelsea Clinton's wedding. You can't call that decisive and effective, can you? Why did we give money to that toko?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u157	One: the HGIS note is not from me, but from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Two: Mr Bosma presents the answers he has received to questions he has put to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. They made this contribution because they believe that the Clinton Foundation is an effective partner in climate-smart agriculture. They have good grounds for doing so. I would like to say to Mr Bosma that, if you would like to know more, my colleague, the Secretary of State for EZ, is the appropriate person to talk about this. He encouraged me to report this to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u158	I just needed that little push. Another question, then, because with the Clinton Foundation we can't get much further. I asked a question yesterday that wasn't answered either. It is about a tweet by Mr Plasterk, who encourages political violence against the current president elect of the United States of America. He tweeted a video in which Robert De Niro was speaking which Mr Trump called a dog and a pig. It's someone who's been elected President of the United States, you won't have escaped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u159	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u160	What can that mean for foreign trade in general and the relationship between the Netherlands and the United States, given that a minister says that Mr Trump is a dog and a pig?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u161	I don't know the tweet or the video. I trust that we will continue the constructive relationship we have with the United States. The cabinet speaks with one mouth, but I don't know if it speaks with one tweet. That could be an interesting constitutional issue. Sounds like something for another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u162	I think it would be wise to explore that another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u163	I think it would be wise not to speak with one tweet, because then I think we can have a lot of debates here. I thank the Minister for her answers and her commitment. In doing so, she has swept away my questions for the second term and my motion for a resolution, for which I am grateful. That's a good thing. I sign up for the second term because it makes it possible for me to make another appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u164	I shall miss Mr Dijkgraaf. If it were up to me, I would have chosen another option. But it's up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u165	We're all gonna miss him for the second term. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber and the Minister. A suspension has been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u166	I would like to ask when the Minister will respond to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u167	She'll do that in second term. I don't know if there's gonna be any more. Along with the motions, she will deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u168	The Minister has just given her answer in the first term. We shall begin with the second term of office. I can see the cathedral very high. That is entirely good for Mr Smaling, given his length.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u169	Am I high up in the pecking order, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u170	Those aren't words for tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. It might be her last budget. I still have a few motions. The first one is about the covenants. At the beginning of its reply, the Minister spoke about this. That sounded hopeful in itself, but Mr Voordewind and I still have the need to add a motion to the matter. I'll hear from the Minister how she handles it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Smaling/Vordewind motion (32852), No. 24) called on the government to use the evaluation of the International Corporate Social Responsibility Agreements for additional measures in sectors where there is insufficient progress;]] [[noting that only two agreements have been concluded so far and that the evaluation does not set out any additional measures;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, before Christmas, what additional measures are needed to reach ten substantial agreements within this cabinet period and to specifically examine how to bring about imvo legislation for companies and sectors that do not sign a covenant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u172	We have talked about the relationship between taxation on the one hand and aid on the other hand and the trade that might be in between. I still need to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in countries receiving development aid there is often a loss of state income due to tax avoidance;]] [[considers that it is important to have a permanent good view of this;]] [[calls on the government to provide the Chamber with quantitative insight into the scale of the problem of tax avoidance in the Dutch partner countries, how this relates to aid efforts and total gross national product and how successful the Netherlands has been in combating tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u173	How liberating that Mr Smaling and the SP are now simply talking about development shúlp, whatever it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u174	Did I speak other words before?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u175	My day is good again!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u176	Well, it's always nice to make Mr. Bosma happy. Mr President, given the time available, I shall leave it at that. I have tabled a few amendments. The Minister is going to talk about that. Then I'll see if I can find myself on the microphone again. I would also like to mention two amendments that I tabled last year. I still believe that they have not been filled in in the wrong way or in the wrong way. We'll talk about that then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u177	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed reply. It has been said a short while ago: at least this is the last budget discussion with this minister during this cabinet period. I have had the pleasure of participating in two of those treatments. I was pleased to do so, and that was partly inspired by the person of this minister. Thank you very much for that! The VVD Group is reassured that population growth in sub-Saharan Africa in particular is being taken very seriously by the government and this minister. This is evident from her answers to the questions I raised in the first period. It confirms my conviction that the cabinet is increasingly taking this issue seriously and adjusting its commitment to it. In order to support this and make it possible to make additional efforts possible, I have tabled an amendment which places resources on the table. But, again, the most important thing is that the VVD Group has been convinced that the government is taking this forthcoming problem seriously, because that is what the 'VVD' group is taking seriously. I have also tabled a motion for a resolution just to be sure. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the 2016 World Population Data Sheet of the Population Reference Bureau, the population of sub-Saharan Africa will double between 2015 and 2050 to 2.5 billion people and will double again to over 4 billion around 2100;]] [[Whereas this explosive increase in population will lead to greater instability in Africa and greater migration to Europe;]] [[calls on the Government, in the light of demographic developments in sub-Saharan Africa, in view of the importance of birth control, the freedom of choice of women and girls in Africa to decide for themselves whether and, if so, how many children they want to have,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Taverne. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u178	The Population Reference Bureau is, I believe, from the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u179	This motion is linked to two thoughts. Mr Taverne's one thought is that he wants birth control. That's literally in the motion. The other thought is that people should have the right to make their own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u180	That's what it says literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u181	But can they only make their own choices if they choose birth control? Or can they just make any choice themselves? And if the latter is the case, why is the first one in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u182	I have heard the Minister speak very wisely on this subject. She said that if women and girls can decide for themselves whether they want children and how many children they want, that usually leads to fewer large families than is often the case today. This means that thinking about population growth, also on an individual basis and in a family context, will in many cases lead to birth control. It is not without reason that the cabinet has already put forward within the chapter of SRGR, the Minister, which also pays a great deal of attention and spends money on contraception. The nice thing about contraception is that in most cases they prevent pregnancies, apart from a number of very different effects that their use has, and that they therefore help women to make this choice themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u183	I am glad that Mr Taverne no longer doubts the usefulness of spreading contraception. He did that openly before. But the most important question is, of course, what kind of campaign you're going through. Are you actually gonna point people out their rights? Are you going to help them make their own choices and facilitate those choices? Or are you going to bet on birth control? Are you gonna say, "You won't reproduce"? Are you switching to a Chinese one-child policy and mandatory sterilization? We can all imagine it. If birth control is the purpose, you're going to do something other than if freedom of choice is the purpose. That is why I am asking this question. Perhaps Mr Taverne can be a little clearer about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u184	In this context, the term 'intention' is a strikingly chosen word. I think it is important that the approach to this policy should be to allow women to make their own choices. I have stated in my term that I do not believe that economic growth in Africa will initially be such that it will essentially contribute to having smaller families. I think knowledge and resources will do that. And I think that birth control is ultimately in the interests of women and families and therefore also in the interests of Africa. A subject that has also been discussed in detail is free trade, both in the discussion we had on CETA or TTIP and in the discussion on the importance of free trade for the development of developing countries. For this reason, the VVD Group welcomes the fact that the Minister confirms and recognises the importance and value of free trade in general. I understand that all kinds of pluses and minuses can be added, but the starting point remains. The starting point is also that this Minister will continue to promote them. I believe that this is good for Europe and for the world, and that this will ultimately be the most important means of making developing countries grow economically in such a way that development aid will no longer be needed. That is good for those countries, and that is good for the countries that are now giving that aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and her people for their written answers to yesterday's questions. I'll start with my motion, see how much time I have left after that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hospitals and clinics in developing countries are in great need of direct and practical assistance in the form of usable equipment and goods;]] [[noting that used medical equipment and disposables have been collected by volunteers in the Netherlands and sent to healthcare institutions in developing countries for years;]] [[noting that there is no planned disposal of surplus or deprecated equipment and goods from health care institutions;]] [[Whereas good coordination enables the various parties to strengthen each other and to learn from each other;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with hospitals, charities foundations and associations concerned, to explore the possibilities of establishing a national platform for the re-use of medical equipment in developing countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u186	We think it is very important to prevent waste in health care. If this can get to the people of Africa in a good way, it seems to us to be a good thing. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its commitment that we will receive a letter on the investment bank this period. I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to give more insight into how much money goes to the poorest. That would be reflected in the annual report for this year, if we get it next year. Maybe there will be another letter that will allow us to look at what we are doing about it now. That's how we could compare these cases next year. It is also good that the Dutch Good Growth Fund is made more accessible in Indonesia. I asked you to do that. I appreciate the Minister's efforts in this respect, precisely because we have stopped helping and want to do more with trade. This is a very nice way. I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to make the missing middle even clearer in the Dutch Good Growth Fund. My final point, because I see that I am already over my time: how can expenditure within our development cooperation policy be properly aligned with that of Europe? Perhaps the Minister could comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u187	I call Mr Van Laar of the PvdA Group. He has many minutes left, but he has already indicated that he will not make full use of his time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u188	We'll see about that, Mr. Chairman. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for her first reply and for the written reply. For example, we haven't talked about the noisy disease anymore, but the Minister's commitment is clear. I would urge her to look at what else is needed for this as soon as possible. Apparently, the solution has already been found and is already being used in countries, but there are budgetary and other constraints. It would be nice if we could go through now and not wait for the evaluation. I believe that the Minister has fully endorsed our call for women to be given top positions and for gender equality to be promoted, both in Europe and globally. She said she would support women's organisations, including in the Middle East, and also in Northern Syria, provided that there were good proposals for this. Of course, that is obvious: without a good proposal, no support. But all these organizations are part of one fund: the African Women's Development Fund. This does not immediately indicate that there is a great deal of interest, understanding and connection with the Middle East, let alone with Northern Syria. North Africa is already a very different branch of sport than sub-Saharan Africa. Will the Minister explicitly point out to the fund that is going to distribute this money that attention should be paid to these regions, including grants? This applies specifically to the very small region in Northern Syria, where the Minister himself has commissioned research into women's organisations. This research shows that there are good women's organisations, that there are good developments, but they do need very much support. Then there is a motion on reception in the region, which has already been tabled on Monday. The Minister replied, I think rightly, that this year we have allocated an enormous extra sum: 260 million. This will have an impact in the coming years, because it will only then land in that region. So it seems to me to be more a subject for formation, looking at how we can structurally give this a place within the budgets, than that it is something to settle now. That is why the Labour Party will not support this proposal, although it is important for us in the region to receive it. What is urgently needed is additional emergency aid, because that budget is falling. Looking at this year and next year, I believe, more than 150 million euros will go off. I don't only believe that, but I'm sure. That is why we are tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the influx of asylum seekers into the Netherlands is falling significantly and is much lower than budgeted;]] [[noting that this may lead to additional funds available for ODA;]] [[Whereas sufficient and good emergency aid is of great importance in the region and its budgets are falling;]] [[calls on the Government to use a substantial part of the surplus of funds for the reception of asylum seekers in the Autumn Note for an extension of the Emergency Aid Fund in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Laar, Voordewind, Taverne, Smaling, Agnes Mulder, Van Veldhoven, Dijkgraaf and Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u189	That's what I thought, Mr. Chairman. This motion could just make it. We also have a motion on child labour. How could it be any different? The Minister indicated that he would take a favourable look at this and take a positive view of it. But there's going to be elections, and if it's a bit disappointing, I'm gonna leave it at that, you don't know what's gonna happen. So I think it is a good thing that the Court should give a ruling on this matter and also give it to this and the next government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 168 million children still have to work;]] [[noting that the use of coalitions against child labour has proved successful;]] [[Whereas the use of child labour is fragmented and not earmarked;]] [[calls on the Government to create a fund to combat child labour to help organisations and businesses combat child labour and to provide structural funding of EUR 10 million per year from non-legally compulsory expenditure on private sector development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Laar and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u190	It is a pity that Mr Dijkgraaf is not here. He has tabled an amendment which is quite far-reaching. I would like to respond to that, because we are no longer open to any further time. This amendment assumes that we are putting the tax regime for expats in the Netherlands on the beaming standard. This means that they enjoy less tax advantage. We're going to use that money for development cooperation. In the first term, I have already said that this sounds sympathetic to us. We ourselves make an even more far-reaching proposal in our electoral programme: to abolish it. We also want to go much further in raising the budget for development cooperation. At the moment, however, we are in a coalition with a budget agreement that does not allow for that. We have that struggle, and we keep it. However, I would like to say that, so that it is clear why we do not support the amendment. That is not because it does not sound sympathetic to us, but simply because we have a budget agreement that we have to keep to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u191	This amendment was also tabled by Mr Grashoff, if I am correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u192	Right, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about this and I think I can put it in the absence of Mr Dijkgraaf. I have checked, but I do not think that the coalition agreement at all states that there should be no change in the expat regime, so why does the PvdA Group invoke this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u193	I was not talking about the coalition agreement or the coalition agreement, but about the budgetary arrangements. They're made every year. Mr Dijkgraaf has also participated in these negotiations. That's what he referred to yesterday when he said: you can bring something in there and if you want it badly enough, you can make it. Sometimes it does and sometimes it doesn't, I'd say. In any case, all the parties involved in these discussions must bear such tax measures. I can tell you that there are also tax measures that the PvdA is not carrying and that the VVD would like. There's an interaction in that, I'll say. So as a coalition party, you're not entirely free to just support anything when it comes to that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u194	The inspiration that Mr Dijkgraaf had gained was mine, but he was ahead of me; I am still jealous of the fact that, among other things, Mr Nijboer, as the financial spokesman for the PvdA, expressed himself in no uncertain terms about this expat arrangement. He actually said we should get rid of that. Now we have taken a very modest part of it, and it is a question of limiting the 30% rule for expats to the beaming standard, and even of that it is not possible to drag it out of here. How am I supposed to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u195	I think Mr Grashoff is acting like he doesn't understand what I'm saying, but I think he understands. We have coalition agreements; then you can't just take a tax measure that doesn't attract the other coalition partner. It is true that we have abandoned this in harsh terms. It is also true that we have repeatedly put this into budgetary submission. It is also true that the VVD does so with other things that we do not want. You don't always get out of there. In this case, we're not getting anywhere with this. So that's back on the table at the formation. For this, we are submitting an election programme, which will include this. That's just where it can be read back, so we'll talk in March, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u196	I really have the question, perhaps it is a rhetorical question to what extent the PvdA has actually stuck its neck out for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u197	Mr Grashoff may ask that question. Yesterday he concluded that we had agreed in the government negotiations some time after two blinks. It seems that Mr Grashoff has a precise understanding of the way in which that sort of thing goes; more than I do, in any case. I know what's going on behind the scenes, albeit for a very small part, and I can tell you that we're fighting for what we're worth for the things we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u198	I call Mr Bosma. He'll speak a little longer than agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u199	Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Grashoff at the interrupting microphone, but I haven't even started yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u200	Before Mr Bosma starts his story, I would like to ask him how many people he is going to insult now: from the present, from the past, from especially progressive signature. Can he report that yet? I'm sure we can get used to that. That is always bon ton at the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u201	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u202	But you don't remember the number? I understand from this that there are so many that you don't have it fully sharp anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u203	I'll just point out your inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u204	I am anxiously waiting, really anxiously, for Mr Bosma's story. What are the historical forgeries that we are going to get for ourselves again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u205	I give the floor to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u206	Mr. Chairman. This is actually a sort of cliffhanger, for which thanks. This is the last budget discussion of this Minister, at least during this period. I do not know if she will come back and if so, in what capacity, but I would just like to say that I have always greatly appreciated the contact and traffic with this Minister. It was always a pleasure to have her debates. Whatever the future brings her, I hope it will be a good one for her. We have not always come together on all parts, but those are details. Of course, development aid is always about sustainability. That means long-term thinking. An insult was just cast on me: I was accused of being cynical and selfish. Let me look at the past of GroenLinks. I have a nice quote here, written in 1973, in the middle of the cultural revolution, when millions of people were murdered by the communists. Then someone wrote: "China is actually a great morally re-armed country in which absolute honesty, purity, selflessness and love reign." Bas de Gaay Fortman, 1973. He said that the country is a dictatorship, but any individual can have his input there. Bas de Gaay Fortman of the PPR; that's GroenLinks now! I got that from one of his books. He also went to Mozambique. There the liberation front FRELIMO, a communist club, had just taken over and was destroying the country. He called the soldiers of FRELIMO "freedom fighters" and said: they want to transform colonial society into a system of social justice. That was the end of 1974. That was the PPR, now GroenLinks! I note that the PPR was then part of a cabinet that gave money to the ZANU in Mozambique, which gave money to the ANC, which had torture camps and killed people in camps and has 20,000 dead Zulu on its conscience. The PPR made sure that money went to FRELIMO, which demolished the country, and to the MPLA in Angola. Those last four organizations have a lot of blood on their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u207	FRELIMO was there between 1975 and the early 1990s. Mozambique has been systematically boycotted and destroyed by the apartheid regime in South Africa. The Cahora Bassa Dam in the Zambezi river has been blown up. It was one big drama. You just couldn't get out of Maputo because of the risk of getting shot. This whole contradiction between FRELIMO and RENAMO has been orchestrated and maintained by the apartheid regime in South Africa. Why does Mr Bosma not recognise that such situations have also occurred?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u208	Such situations have also occurred, but FRELIMO has systematically demolished the country. There are also reports, such as that of the Dutch embassy, in which, after that club came into power, it was immediately stated: they are in the process of establishing a communist dictatorship. Warnings came from the embassies to the Netherlands. A Mr. Tim de Wit, who is now a correspondent for the NOS in London, has written a beautiful graduation thesis "A luta continua" for his bachelor. It says how the Netherlands financed FRELIMO. Not only when it was still a guerrilla organization but also later, when FRELIMO was in power, it systematically demolished the country. It certainly didn't need his neighbor, South Africa, for that. For that it needed the communist ideology that might be shared. They were also socialists with Mr Smaling. And FRELIMO has systematically looted the country. The Netherlands has financed FRELIMO and has also financed Mozambique as a communist dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u209	All these countries in Africa have gained independence from the end of the 1950s to the beginning of the 1980s. When you realize that before the colonial period they didn't know the phenomenon of "nation state" at all. They were launched in a whole new situation after the colonial period. I do not hear Mr Bosma talking about some compassion with the construction of these countries, because they came from a situation dominated by Western powers. I read his book. We also discussed this last year. Why don't we have a more balanced story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u210	How lovely! Mr Smaling keeps making me happy. First of all, with the fact that he is now talking about development aid, which is already a step forward, and now he is making a plea for the nation state. I was thinking: the SP is traditional for a strong EU. That is contrary to the thought of a nation state. The SP is for mass immigration. That will eventually destroy the nation state. I'm glad he's going to see more and more of the light. I find it a little strange that he is now cheering so much about those nation states in Africa, because he is always shouting: those borders have been randomly drawn, that was a huge shame and that is why all the problems arise. So it's hard for me to fit it together. But all these countries have their own responsibility as well. If you look at a lot of countries in sub-Saharan Africa, you just have to see that they have deteriorated over the last 40 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u211	We're not getting out entirely, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u212	Every year, we get a little closer together. A brief calculation shows that we need until 2180, Mr Smaling, in order to reach agreement. It is a pity that we have not heard from the Minister any more, not even in the written reply, about this interesting discussion which I would have liked to have been there with our ambassador in Kenya, who has broken through the progressive omerta and said: development aid is simply throwing money into the bottomless pit. That is quite a dramatic statement, because the existence of this minister, at least during office hours, is based on the idea of development aid. One of our people at the front, our ambassador, is talking about a bottomless pit. It is strange that then nothing else will come out of it, except that the written answer says: good talk. I will stop talking about it now, but it is quite clear that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Mrs Dijksma, was just hobbying at the time. She's also what Africa's gonna do. She gave money to that Clinton Foundation. I really don't understand why that happened with taxpayers' money. There is no added value. That organization is no good on all sides. It's also strange that another Secretary of State in Africa is going to do things. That's what we have this minister for, isn't it? She specializes in that. Does every department have a little hobby in Africa? I don't understand it at all anymore, Mr. Chairman, and neither do you, by the looks of it. I'm filing two brief motions. I'm gonna save that in my 51 seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has financed FRELIMO, MPLA, ANC and ZANU and, following the entry into power of these organisations, Mozambique, Angola, South Africa and Zimbabwe respectively;]] [[Whereas these 'liberation movements', either as a guerilla movement or as a dominant government party, are responsible for genocides which have killed tens of thousands of innocent civilians;]] [[noting that this has financed the government of the Netherlands from gross human rights violations, mass murder and massacres;]] [[calls on the Government to express its regret,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u213	I'll file the next motion in eight seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch taxpayer is not crazy;]] [[calls on the government to stop filling the bottomless pit called development aid immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u214	Mr. Chairman. I'm sure we can do that. In fact, I have time to thank the Minister, a little more than I could do in my first term, for the good cooperation we have had, over the past few years and for the last budget in this cabinet period. It was a very pleasant collaboration. Thank you very much for that. Who knows what the future will bring. We never know. I would like to thank the Minister for some of her commitments, in particular the commitment to really look at how we can ensure that we really support our companies that go abroad with trade missions in the formation of consortia on the front, so that we can get as much out of it as possible. Dutch companies have a lot to offer when it comes to sustainable development. It would be very nice if we could help more countries in more places in the world to live through the growth they rightly want to see in a sustainable way. I believe that precisely the technology development we are building together here can contribute to the major challenges we face together. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to look again at how we can give space to SMEs in those developing countries with interesting applications. Perhaps it is only about broadening the way in which a particular budget may be spent. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the budget for sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRGR) is reduced for all to fulfil the mission as a result of the fall in terms of terms of trade;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands makes a unique contribution to strengthening the position of women and girls and ensuring SRGR;]] [[Whereas the Global Fund for the fight against AIDS is a particularly effective organisation for ensuring SRGR;]] [[calls on the Government to increase its contribution to the Global Fund by EUR 10 million over the next few years and to find coverage for this in the voluntary contributions to less efficient international organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be no national implementation programme for the global targets;]] [[Whereas the budget does not provide sufficient insight into what instrument is at the service of which world (sub) objective;]] [[Whereas this overview does not fully exist in programmes from other ministries, local authorities and public-private partnerships;]] [[calls on the government, online by global target and sub-objective, to make clear what public effort or public-private effort contributes to achieving it, how much resources are devoted to it, what policy objectives and targets are there and how results reports are linked to it;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-29]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u215	That motion is actually intended as a kind of further elaboration of what we discussed in the WHO. I think we should look at how we can make what we want, how we are trying to achieve it, what money we are putting into it, where it comes from and what the results are. It would be nice if that would not only be described in a beautiful 28-page document, but that it would also be easily accessible online. It would be nice if people there could get information on the main lines, but could also click on them if they wanted more information. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. I said in the first term that my group has produced a Green Paper containing fine examples. I have a copy here for the minister. I'd like to hand it over to her through the messenger. I'd love to do that in person later. I have copies of the Green Paper for my colleagues in the Chamber who want it, of course. There are good examples of Dutch companies that can contribute to green growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u216	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u217	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister, not only for the answer in this period, but also for the pleasant and sometimes fruitful cooperation we have had in recent years. We still have a few months to go, so maybe some good things come from that. The fact remains that next year there will be 1 billion cuts by this cabinet in this budget. Now we can welcome the fact that funds may be released because of these asylum reserves, but that too was ODA money, so that will not be additional resources. There will then simply be funds again in the budget which should have already been included in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u218	Mr Voordewind did this in the first term. He's adding up all the cuts. And he says: all the intensifications were already intensifications, so we don't count them. But this cabinet period also involved 1.5 billion for development cooperation, including 750 million for the reception of asylum seekers. The fact that that now remains ODA is just a profit. We don't have to run away from that either. It would be fair for Mr Voordewind to call it that. Both sides are true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u219	There's actually money coming in. That is, however, occasional money. The austerity has been used structurally. And there's been another mortgage on the future. I read that GNI growth according to the HGIS budget was 1.2 billion. There is a mortgage on the future for the budgets of this minister's successor, or perhaps her own; we do not know that. That's cash slides, that's easy money. I'm surprised every time that this is possible, because if we try it, it's gonna be very difficult. I admit, however, that extra money has also been added to the Minister's budget. That does not destroy the total of the austerity under Rutte I and Rutte II. These two Cabinets together removed 2 billion structuralally from the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u220	We'd like that money back. That is why we say: whether it is structural depends only on the decision you make next year. This depends again on the results of the election and on the results of the formation. Whether it's structural or not, we decide every year. In recent years we've kept it pretty dry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u221	That is why I will also propose that next Tuesday we vote on the motion in which the government is asked to limit the asylum reserves, which have been sky-high over the last two years, to 250 million. I hope that the Labour Party and other parties will support this motion, so that perhaps next year we will not have another such great attack, or start to operate in this budget again very difficult because we simply do not know how much might be left or is lacking in the Autumn note or in the Spring note. I therefore hope for support, including from Mr Van Laar. I have a motion on the means of release, because I don't want to sit back. This motion is about the emergency funds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Relief Alliance budget is only EUR 7.5 million for the rest of 2016 and 2017;]] [[noting that the midterm evaluation shows that the Dutch Relief Alliance is an efficient funding channel and is in line with the government's policy to provide emergency assistance as efficiently as possible;]] [[Seeing that the Court has requested that a similar amount be made available as for 2015 and 2016 and that it be clarified promptly (Motion Voordewind/Van Laar, 32605, No. 185), but unfortunately this motion has not yet been implemented;]] [[whereas humanitarian needs are expected to be at least as high in the coming years as in 2015 and 2016;]] [[Calls on the Government to make available to the Autumn Note a similar amount for the Dutch Relief Alliance for 2017 as issued in 2015 and 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Laar, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Smaling, Mr Grashoff, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Thieme and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u222	We have tabled several motions here on the 25% standard for civil society. The Minister said earlier that she thought this was very valuable. This was in response to the final evaluation of MFS II. I would like to ask the Minister whether, if the funds do go free in the autumn, she would like to look at civil society. Let me end with the work permits for refugees. That's a point we've made before. The Minister is committed to this when it comes to Jordan, but I would ask her to do the same in Turkey. It is particularly necessary in Jordan, because I still hear that people want to get to work, but that the work permits do not come free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u223	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is extremely critical of this BuHa-OS budget. We do not want to associate ourselves with the draconian cuts made under Rutte II on this budget, which in 2017 lead to an extremely low budget, the lowest since 1973. We are not going to cut down on the most vulnerable in the world in one of the most rich countries. We also have difficulty with the policy link, which is increasingly established, between development cooperation on the one hand and the Dutch trade interests on the other. We consider this to be an extremely difficult link, a link that puts development cooperation in an incorrect light. Our vote on the budget will depend on the possible acceptance of the Dijkgraaf and others amendment. which, as I said, I am a co-signator. At least that makes a concrete move to reverse this trend. I'll file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has repeatedly committed to spend at least 0.7% of gross national product on ODA, in accordance with the OECD standard;]] [[Considering that for 2017 a decrease in development aid to 0.56% has been budgeted and a further decrease is foreseen to 0.44% in 2020;]] [[points out that the budget for pure official development aid should grow towards 0.7% of GDP in the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Transatlantic Trade & Investment Partnership (TTIP) negotiations are still ongoing;]] [[noting that there is considerable resistance to TTIP within the European Union and the United States;]] [[noting that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has ideas on a new generation of trade agreements with the ambition to make them contribute positively to the environment and working conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to cease negotiations on the TTIP Convention and to offer the US to work together on such a New Generation Trade Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Smaling, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u224	I give the floor to the Minister. It will deal with the amendments and the motions. I would also like to ask you to state clearly what amendments and motions she is referring to so that we can follow them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u225	Mr. Chairman. I'll go into the questions first. To Mrs Mulder, I note that I already have this type of funding here. 80% of transactions are less than €100,000. One could say that most loans are between €5,000 and €100,000 and equity investments above 1 million. There is also an intermediate category between 1 tonne and 1 million, but 80% is less than 1 tonne. I think that's what we wanted to do with each other, and that's what's done with it. Mr Voordewind asked about the work permits and spoke about Turkey and Jordan. We'll keep talking about that. The perception of Mr Voordewind is not unknown to me. I can see that in Turkey work permits are granted to Syrian refugees. Dutch companies have decided, at my encouragement, to open vacancies to Syrian refugees as well. They get work permits for that. It's work in progress. We'll definitely be talking about that. I'm going back to Mrs. Mulder, or was it Mrs. Van Veldhoven? What I have to say about the final report on opportunities for Dutch companies is that last year a first report entitled Trends and Opportunities was published. Go ahead! An overview of climate funds has been published that companies can subscribe to. That overview is updated annually and is also reviewed every time new funds are created, such as the Green Climate Fund, which can be the opportunities for Dutch companies. The report is therefore already there and the recommendations are being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u226	I do understand the confusion with the Minister, because D66 has also advocated selling smarter and in combinations of the Netherlands abroad. Of course, this is very close to it. We're going to have a lot of knowledge and skills about our windmill that we're going to build at sea. These kinds of structures may be applied elsewhere in the world when you talk about sustainability. Actually, I'm looking to combine that even smarter and take advantage of those opportunities for our business, because it's going to have so much money in it. Other countries might come up with financing structures that go along with that. That is why I asked my question about the investment bank. Japan is already doing this in development cooperation and we can learn from that. If you're going to talk about so much investment, the role of the government is not just to see if there might be opportunities. It may be stepped up, so that we can eat well with our businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u227	It might be good to report that this information is available on the website internationalondernemen.nl. I would like to say to Mrs Mulder that we are coming up with a letter on this financing institution. We are now also working on the additional resources made available to make trade missions and trade promotion more effective, as well as public-private cooperation. This could be part of that, too. I suggest that she zoom in on that in one of those letters where it is most relevant. That is at her request and at the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u228	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u229	I would like to say to Mr Van Laar that we have made agreements with the African Women's Development Fund that they are also going to work in that MENA region. They also have capacity for that in their homes or they build them up. However, I will record that with them again at his request. Water use for programmes in DGGF has been requested. We monitor all DGGF projects using water, which has an impact on groundwater levels. If the groundwater level is not supplemented, there will be no funding. It is indeed part of the regular check, as I said, but it is also quite specific. So I think Mrs Van Veldhoven will be pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u230	Sure. This sounds really good. Is there an equally thorough check on the other instruments we use to finance projects abroad? If the Minister does not know the answer to that now, it may also come in a letter later, because it may be a rather specific question for the late evening. But that's the way it should be. I would like us to take such a test in places where we support international projects to know if we are doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u231	I'd like to get back to that. I know about some instruments, but I'm not quite sure about others in what way that is done. So I'd like to get back to that. I'll get on the motions. There's a lot of them, so I'm gonna try and get through it fast. I shall begin with the Smaling/Vordewind motion in part No. 21, about the covenants. I do not recommend this motion, because there is a long list of agreements that are being prepared and which deal with substantial sectors. I think it's around ten. So I do not see why this motion is needed now. Of course it's up to the Chamber, but I would advise against this motion. We're just gonna go through with it, and I understand the encouragement. The Smaling motion in part No. 22 is about loss of state income in developing countries through tax avoidance. I think it's a very nice proposal, but if you want to do this right, you have to come up with a huge program that you really have to put a lot of capacity into. I'm a little opposed to that. It's also really hard to measure. So it's not a matter of doing it for a while if you did it seriously. I have two suggestions. I would advise against the motion, but I would like to give Mr Smaling a letter in which we will list the reports that we know about this subject. I refer to the report of the African Union, but there are more of them. We can then look at the information which answers the extremely useful question put by Mr Smaling. I'm dissuading the motion. I always feel a bit bad about Mr Smaling, but I hope that I will meet him with that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u232	Then I'll hold the motion. I can see the Minister's letter coming, and if not, I'll get that motion out of the mothballs again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u233	At the request of Mr Smaling, I propose his motion (3450-XVII, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their families That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u234	That's nice. Thank you. The next motion is the motion in part No. 23, by Mr Taverne. We talked about the importance of women's and girls' rights and their impact on birth control. So it seems to me that I can take over this motion. I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Mulder/Smaling. 24. I really like the idea that's in there. It's also a bit tricky...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u235	I still have to make sure that the Chamber has any objection to taking over the Taverne motion in part No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u236	I would like that motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u237	You would like this motion to be put to the vote. Okay. Then this motion will simply be on the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u238	Fine. The more women's and girls' rights are discussed at this time, the better it is for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u239	Then what is the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u240	The judgment is taking over or supporting policy. Mrs Van Veldhoven also recalled that the Netherlands is one of the countries that stands for women's and girls' rights. I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 24, by Mrs Mulder and Mr Smaling. That is a sympathetic idea, but it is difficult to do so, because our offer must then be in line with their needs. The World Health Organisation and the European Commission are discussing international frameworks. I would like to say to Mrs Mulder that I will consult with VWS on these international frameworks and on whether such an international platform is in line with them or not and in what way. I will inform her by letter. Then it's judgment room, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u241	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u242	Then I come to the motion on part No. 25, on the extension of the Emergency Aid Fund. I would ask you to hold that motion. We have just talked about the Autumn note, which provides the financial translation of the revised estimate. We are very aware of humanitarian needs, but I would continue to appreciate it, especially now that the Chamber, as I understand it, has said that we will speak again about that Navy note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u243	I am looking at Mr Van Laar, but I do not know whether he has been able to discuss this with all the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u244	No, not that. The motion calls for something to be done in the Autumn note, so it seems to me that we should put it to the vote on the Autumn note, so that at least the Chamber's mandate is clear. Then it is up to the government whether or not to give hands and feet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u245	So you put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u246	Then it's judgment room. The Navy's note makes this clear. We've said what we need to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u247	But you don't advise the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u248	There is little to discourage, because I myself said that we are going to talk about this in the Autumn paper. Whether the motion then goes in a direction that the Chamber wants, I cannot say yet. I'd like to consider it a procedural motion. The motion in part No. 26, on combating child labour, I accept, but I would like to add something. The motion suggests that we are going to free up €10 million of new money for it, and that is not the case. There is already investment in child labour. Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Laar are the great instigators of that. €4 million from the fund set up for child labour and business, €1 million from the Human Rights Fund and €3 million from the SRGR funds for combating child sexual exploitation. That adds up to €8 million. I would like to say to Mr Van Laar that I will check whether there is €2 million available for long-term use within the budget. I am going to do so nicely, but I cannot guarantee that we will get exactly €2 million. That's how I'd like to understand the motion. Then I can take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u249	Is there any objection to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u250	No, not that. I just wonder if the Minister can let us know by the end of the year how the motion will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u251	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u252	Will the Minister then do so in a structural manner from the private sector or will she look at the whole budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u253	That is a good question from Mrs Mulder, because the motion calls for the development of the private sector. It goes with that, of course, because everything about corporate social responsibility also has to do with the private sector. I can't see Mrs. Mulder looking. She rarely does. I'll inform the Chamber by letter how I'm going to do that. It's hard to make a statement about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u254	Then it might be nice to know where the money comes from before we vote on this motion. Will the petitioners be able to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u255	The motion has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u256	Yes, but I am now asking for the motion to be held and I ask for it to be put to the vote. I'd like to know before we say yes to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u257	The vote on the motion will be on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u258	I do not know whether the Minister has found all this €2 million structurally before that time. We already have the covenants. In that, companies are doing their best. And then you're going to reward them this way, so to speak. Hence the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u259	The Minister has just said that he will come forward with a letter before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u260	Then it is useful that the proposers indicate what they are going to do with it. If they hold the motion, we can see what the minister will do with it. Then we can talk about it and put the motion to the vote. The Minister is very positive about this proposal, so she would like something with it. Then we have the room to assess whether this is indeed the right cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u261	I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Laar, if Mr Smaling agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u262	The problem escapes me a little. In a motion, we make a request to the government. The government says: we will take over that request, we will carry it out, we will inform you about it by letter. I think there's another weighting moment, so we can see if that's going well or if the cover should be changed. I think I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u263	It is also up to us to decide whether we accept this idea. There's a lot of money being asked in that motion. In my view, this should be requested by amendment. I would like to be able to look at it quietly in the group. I think Mrs Mulder's suggestion is very good, because then we might get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u264	Just for the record, the Minister says she's taking over the motion and I'm asking if there's any objection. You say that you object to this and that you want the motion on the voting list. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u265	As a co-author, may I make another suggestion to my colleagues? It's a motion and not an amendment. It suggests a cover. The minister says she's trying to carry out the motion and she's also going to look at the cover. I think we can all support the thrust of the motion and we will see in the Minister's letter how she will eventually cover it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u266	I do have a bit of a problem with this and my financial spokesman, I think, so I would like to know in advance. I would be very pleased if the proposers would offer that space, but I'm not tasting that space right now, so unfortunately that has consequences as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u267	Perhaps it would be best to decide that the motion will not be taken over but will be put on the voting list. My fellow Members have said that we need to have a little more discussion. If the wording on coverage is changed, there may be more room for different parties. Then we can vote on it before the Minister's final letter arrives. There is now a very specific coverage in the motion, so colleagues cannot expect us to vote in favour of it, and we cannot agree to the specific coverage they have indicated. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, together with Mrs Mulder and Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u268	The motion will be on the voting list. We will see next Tuesday whether it has changed or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u269	I'm going to follow that with interest. The Bosma motion in part No. 27 I advise, like the Bosma motion in part No. 28. The Van Veldhoven/Van Laar motion in part No. Twenty-nine, I'm gonna make judgment room. On the Van Veldhoven motion in part No. 30 I have to say something, because I'm going to dissuade it. That overview is about the commitment of all departments. Each department is responsible for the implementation of its own goals. I am not going to take over and neither would Mrs Van Veldhoven. For development cooperation, we will do so in the next budget, so we will do what Mrs Van Veldhoven wants for our part. We also want it to be monitored and reported internationally. A website sdgnederland.nl has been created by the SDG Charter Netherlands, a collaboration with companies and civil society organisations. This is where public-private partnerships are mapped out. We are doing what we have agreed for our budget. This website shows what is being done widely on our site, and then each department is responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u270	I understand the Minister doesn't want to take over the responsibility of all her colleagues. That would also place a disproportionate workload on her department, so I understand the doubt. However, we are not only there with an overview of public-private partnerships, but also a very large fragmentation of a number of websites, where you have to search. The appeal in this motion is: now make sure that the information to be collected under the responsibility of the different departments is presented in one place. I will continue the motion and consider whether we can come up with a wording which will lighten the division of labour and leave it less on the shoulder of this minister, but which will lead to clarity. It would be a shame, given the importance that we all attach to these goals, to just lay ourselves down to a great fragmentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u271	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (3450-XVII, No. 30). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u272	I appreciate that very much. I'll think about it, too. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 31. I would ask that the motion be retained with the arguments I have already put forward. It's about the Navy Note. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u273	The same applies to this motion as Mr Van Laar said. We are giving this motion to the Minister to fill in the Navy's note. Then it doesn't make much sense to hold on to them until the Navy Note arrives. It's just an assignment for the Cabinet to take this to the Navy's Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u274	Then I'll say the same thing again. It's up to the Chamber to give me an order. It's also up to the Chamber to find something. I regard the motion as part of the process to which the Chamber wishes to commit itself, in relation to the Navy Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u275	So you don't advise the motion? Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u276	Excuse me, but here's a specific amount. I must advise against that, because I do not yet know the financial implications of the Navy's note. I can't anticipate a certain amount of money. I can, of course, repeat what I said in the first term, namely that we are very aware of the needs, but that I cannot commit amounts or even give an order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u277	It would then be consistent if the Minister had the same judgment as Mr Van Laar's motion, namely the Court of Justice's ruling, and then waited for the decision of the Chamber. In the other motion there is a "essential amount" while I refer to budgets from previous years. If the Minister says that she leaves the judgment to the Chamber and waits for it, then we await the Navy's note with this message from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u278	It's a little bit different. That other motion says "material." We may differ what is or is not substantial, but it is something other than a "similar amount', because that is just the same amount as the years before. I think that's something else. Again, I have heard the encouragement. A motion has already been passed. It is up to the proposers, but holding them does perhaps more justice to the spirit of the consultation. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion because of that specific explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u279	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u280	Good. The motion in part No. 32 is about the period after the current cabinet period, after Rutte II. Unfortunately, I cannot say anything about what will then be decided. Of course, I have some ideas about it. They're not classified. However, there is no cover in the motion and I am not going over it. There's nothing left for me to do but discourage the motion. There is no doubt that the various parties, including mine, will say very sensible things about this in their election programme. Then I come to the Grashoff motion in part No. 33, on TTIP. I share the objective described by Mr Grashoff in the motion. We have also had a debate on this, so that will not surprise him. I want to use that break in the negotiations for a reset in that direction. However, a complete stop does not necessarily serve that purpose. Moreover, we have 28 members and the United States. It's a joint decision. At the previous Trade Council, there was no broad support from Member States to press the pause button very explicitly. I'm not gonna promise something I can't deliver, but the thought of the reset is my own thought. That's obvious. I am glad that Mr Grashoff supports that idea. So I'm gonna make a big commitment to that. Of course, I am very happy to make that commitment, but the motion in its present form must be discouraged. I shall deal with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u281	I will put the motion to the vote, but I keep in mind what the Minister said. I will give some thought to the possible wording, which I will discuss with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u282	We shall see whether the motion in this form or in an amended form will be on the voting list next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u283	Very good. I shall deal with the amendments. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mrs Thieme and Mr Grashoff. I'm going to discourage this amendment, because I'm not going to cover it. That's what the Secretary of State for Finance is about. I am also going to discourage the amendment because it does not meet the requirement of separation of income and expenditure. It's no different. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 14 by Mr Smaling and Mrs Mulder on employment for African youth. I'm sorry, but I'm going to discourage this amendment. I think I'm doing it for a good reason. There are already a great many initiatives to encourage this Chamber to combat youth unemployment. Matchmaking also plays a role in this. We have the programmes of LEAD, SPARK and Hivos. The RVO also provides active matchmaking between Dutch entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs from middle income countries. Furthermore, the financial opportunities for Dutch innovative start-ups within the DGGF have been extended. This would therefore lead to fragmentation rather than reinforcement. I think we are doing everything the proposers want us to do. I shall now turn to the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u284	Mr Smaling has a question on the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u285	The Minister says that we are already making a match through the existing programmes, but today's written response says precisely that we are not doing so. It states that matchmaking between young people in developing countries and the Netherlands is not part of these activities. These activities are those covered by LEAD and the DGGF, which the Minister was just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u286	I'll get back to you in a minute. I'm gonna ask for a minute. Of course, I have to think of something right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u287	Don't underestimate him!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u288	No. I never do. Mr President, I just need to take care of it now. Let me check: support from starters, the RVO active. So does LEAD. Mr President, is it possible to return to this in writing? We are doing it under a particular programme, but not under the programme that Mr Smaling is aiming at. Can I write him a note?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u289	I suggest you do that. The amendments will not be voted on on Tuesday either. So there's still time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u290	I'd love to receive notes from this minister. 50 million goes to a programme aimed at young people. This is 1 million, so that could be a very nice addition to what is already going on. From the Minister's written reply, I would point out that this is not yet happening. I would like to say to the Minister: count your injuries with this amendment and make it 51 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u291	Mr Smaling is making another final attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u292	I'm gonna write him a note because I want to do him right and take a good look at it. I'm sure we'll hear from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u293	And does that note still contain the opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u294	Sure, but in the correct context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u295	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u296	That's how you see it. I come to the Grashoff amendment to item No. 15. I'm not gonna recommend that. I understand the plea for emergency aid. We just exchanged that with each other. We are making a major contribution, also internationally, to the reception in Syria. Mr Grashoff sought to obtain cover from the Sustainable Trade and Investment Programmes. These programmes contribute precisely to employment. In my view, Mr Grashoff thinks that the money under this article only goes to Dutch companies, but that is clearly not the case. So I would not like to cut back on that again, because it is very important as part of investing in young people and in countries outside the Netherlands. Moreover, in 2014 the Chamber called in a motion for a resolution not to reduce the budget for private sector development. So that's an extra motivation. I shall now turn to the Taverne amendment on item No. 16. I'll take it from here, just like the motion. The more we can talk about rights for girls and women and the more we can strengthen them in their position to decide for themselves to have children and with whom and when, the better. All this has already been changed here, and we all agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u297	Is there any objection to accepting this amendment? Or can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u298	I am in danger of missing the point here, but I do not think it is right that an amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u299	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. That's right, isn't it? I leave the judgment to the Chamber, with an extremely cordial recommendation from the cabinet. I come to the Smaling amendment on item No. 17. I am going to discourage the amendment because sufficient funds are available for reception in Greece from the EU Civil Protection Mechanism's emergency support. Greece therefore does not ask for additional aid. The second reason to discourage the amendment is more technical: the coverage of the amendment is not possible because Greece does not meet the criteria for ODA. I come to three amendments tabled by Mr Smaling, those tabled by Mr Smaling. 18, 19 and 20. If it's okay, I'd like to treat it as one package. With these amendments, Mr Smaling aims to increase the budget for land law, and specifically within the framework of the Women to Kilimanjaro initiative. He also wants to boost access to safe drinking water. He seeks cover in the reduction of the budget for the participation of the world exhibition in the city of Astana in Kazakhstan. I think that the Women to Kilimanjaro initiative is extremely sympathetic and I would therefore very much like to contribute to it. Mr Smaling has undoubtedly also looked carefully at how the amount he is proposing fits into their financial programme. So I'd really like to do this. However, I cannot accept the proposed coverage. I would like to look at how I can respond to that part of the package presented by Mr Smaling. I hope he's okay with that. The amendment to cover this is the amendment to item No. So I'm going to dissuade you. The amendment in part No. I'm not gonna recommend 19, either. But the amendment in part No. So I'd really like to take over 20, but with a different cover. Oh, I hear now that's not possible. That is a pity, but I am sure Mr Smaling will have a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u300	Things are being suggested now, but I'm not very good with that myself. I assume that the Minister will do something with my amendment to item No. 19, but not with my amendment to item No. 20? She just said it the other way around. I assume she does embrace the land rights amendment and not the amendment on drinking water, probably because of the coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u301	Excuse me, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u302	I can, of course, look at another cover, but I can also ask for a letter asking for the amendment to item No. 19 to grow up anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u303	On such a question, of course, I say yes immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u304	Is that an allowed procedure, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u305	That is certainly an allowed method. The other Members will know where the money comes from, which will ultimately be useful for voting on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u306	However, the amendment must be amended, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u307	The amendment must then be amended. This will have to be done in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u308	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u309	Very well, then we'll do it this way. Fine, we'll get to work on this. I looked at Mrs. Mulder and realized that I had forgotten one question from her. When I answer that question, I'm done. She asked me how the use of EU funds and the use of Dutch funds could be coordinated. In the annotated agenda of the RBZ-OS I shall perhaps go into this a little bit more. I'm drawing the big picture now. The Netherlands is one of the leaders of the commitment to cooperation and coordination between the EU and the Member States. We do that in Mali, among other things. This is really a new way of working for the EU. The Chamber has always been very supportive of it. I believe that we have done this in three pilot countries and that at least the Netherlands has participated in one of them. The commitment is a further strengthening of coordination. With so many parties around the table, this is not always easy, but if it improves effectiveness and efficiency, it is a commitment that we must make. As far as we are concerned, this will be part of the new EU strategy to achieve global goals, which I believe Mrs Mulder and Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u310	I would like to come back to my motion on part No. 32. The Minister said that she did not advise that motion, but this motion does not call at all for action by the government. I think it is a good practice that there will be no judgment from the government. Maybe you can't even do that. It is a ruling that concerns only the Chamber itself. The operative part is that "the budget for pure official development aid must grow in the coming years towards 0.7% of GNP."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u311	The government can make a judgment. That's what's done. Indeed, it is not an order to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u312	But it may be that the Minister is abstaining from a judgment, because she is not being asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u313	I said that I cannot comment on this, because it is not about this cabinet period. I said I wouldn't judge it if the Chamber wanted to pronounce it. I suppose the Chamber probably has a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u314	It is about the budget, so you can say something about it. You can really say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u315	Yes, but I cannot follow this motion within this budget, and that is why I must discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u316	I asked another question about the 25% standard on civil society. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u317	I'm sorry about that. We have talked about this several times. It is true what Mr Voordewind says. I'm sympathetic to this. The increased allocation for first-year care obviously has an impact on the relative percentages of different expenditures. Perhaps the Navy's note, if it all materializes, will give us more of a picture and that it will go a little more in the direction that Mr Voordewind likes to see, like the motion that has been adopted, and as I would like to see it myself. But that's just a cup of coffee. However, I refer to the process that we are going into together towards the Navy Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u318	In my second term, I announced a question on two amendments from last year. The implementation of these amendments is a little problematic. The first amendment dealt with a million for health systems which are largely to PSI I have just lost what that State has been awarded. I think that belongs to SRGR. I've seen PSI active in Mozambique and that's just hardcore SRGR. Now I have nothing against that spearhead, but the agreement was that the money would really be spent on health systems. Now I have the amendment through, but the money is still being spent on something that was not intended. The second amendment concerned the use of drones in earthquake-stricken areas. It allows you to quickly see what the situation of the people in that area is like. That amendment is still in place. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u319	I did indeed implement the first amendment. In general consultation on strengthening health systems, I have explained what that programme is about. However, I am happy to see that on a subsequent occasion, we are going to discuss inclusive development again in the near future. We have just been looking for a spending that, rightly, reflects the intention of Mr Smaling's amendment. So we have actually implemented this amendment, but perhaps it would be a good idea if I could take the opportunity to explain it again. I have also implemented the second amendment, but perhaps not with a result that Mr Smaling would like to see. The amendment was indeed about drones and emergency aid. It was about a specific consortium working on its development. The amendment asks, a bit domestically, to look at that proposal. We did. We have been given the opportunity to submit a proposal. We have assessed that proposal and have it evaluated by external experts, because it is an innovative technology. You're gonna have to consult a little broad. We have found the proposal to be inadequate. There has been an objection procedure in which one has been given the opportunity to indicate that the assessment was unjustified. Nor did the objection procedure alter the judgment. Ultimo could have been brought to justice, but that was not done. For us, the process is now complete. We have looked very closely at this, as we always do, precisely because it was an innovative programme. We have also consulted more widely than we would otherwise, precisely in order to do justice to this innovative technology. However, we have noticed that the proposal does not meet the requirements. It is a pity that this is the outcome, but I cannot support proposals that are not good enough. I know that Mr Smaling agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u320	As far as the first point is concerned, it is good to see that again. After all, the intention of the amendment was to put health systems in order, basic health care. On the second point, I take note of what the Minister says. I'll go over it again. Ask me if I've lost the million. Did the minister put it back in her pocket? Or how does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u321	Of course not, but it is a good question. After all, Mr Smaling found cover for this at the time. Let me take a look at how this has been incorporated into the budget. I do not think anything has happened to that for the time being, because this procedure, with those objections, has been going on for a long time. It's over there somewhere. I see opportunities here, and I believe that Mr Smaling sees them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u322	Yeah, but we're gonna finish now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u323	Too bad, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u324	Otherwise, we're gonna be here for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u325	I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed first and second-term replies. Once again, the motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. The budget and the amendments attached will be voted on at a later date. I believe that this will happen around 8 December if we vote on all the budgets and tabled amendments. Then you know that. I thank all those present, the people who have listened and the people who have watched. I wish you all a good night's sleep.
