ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u1	These legislative proposals have already been discussed in two legislative proposals. Today we are going to begin the plenary session. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, as well as his officials and the people who are listening and watching. Three Members abstained from this debate, namely Mr Grashoff, Mr Van Dijck and Mr Van Vliet. Whether they are present tomorrow or better, two of them are ill, we do not know yet. First, I give the floor to Mrs De Vries on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by saying a few words about the proposal on monuments and education, which has been retained. I started my contribution on that with the question: how can you throw away old shoes before you have new ones? The answer to that is that it simply cannot. The VVD therefore wholeheartedly supports the cabinet's request to retain the bill on the removal of that tax deduction for the maintenance of monuments and for training. These are two issues that the VVD considers important: the promotion of lifelong learning and the preservation of our cultural heritage. It was incomprehensible to the VVD that the new schemes for training deductions and for the deduction of maintenance costs for monuments were still completely unclear at the time the tax deduction would be abolished. You could also question the transitional arrangements for the monuments. The VVD was mainly concerned about the consequences. It is a pity that the complete austerity is not covered, because it still hangs like a sword of Damocles over the follow-up discussion. This creates uncertainty among the people using the scheme. For the future, the VVD will review and weigh up any new proposals. This means looking again at whether or not there should be a tax regime, at a new proposed regime, at its consequences and at the austerity that is still in the books from 2018. I come to the Tax Plan, which consists of different laws. This is the last tax plan of the Rutte II cabinet, so it is also time to look back briefly. Due to the economic crisis, strong measures were needed, including in taxation. Everyone in the Netherlands has felt that and that has led to uncertainty in people. The often strong measures were needed because we wanted the economy to grow again, more people to work and the budget deficit and public debt to be reduced so that the financial problems would not be passed on to future generations, in short, in order to get stronger out of the crisis. It is therefore good to see that today it became clear that the Netherlands has the fastest growth in Europe, that not only the number of jobs is increasing rapidly, but as many as 250,000 additional jobs have been added since 2014. Fortunately, thanks to the hardworking Netherlands and the people in the country, things are getting better. You can see it from the companies that expand and invest and that employ people again. People have more confidence, spend more and dare to buy a house again. Fortunately, this year we also managed to reduce the burden of EUR 5 billion, especially for workers. But not everyone feels that things are really getting better. That is why it is right that there should be a substantial package of purchasing power improvements for next year. No one really likes paying taxes. For every euro you have worked hard and you want to keep as much of your income as possible. After all, you know best what you want to spend your money on. At the same time, these taxes are needed so that the government can invest in, for example, safety, roads, education and care. Unfortunately, these burdens have been included in recent years. In the coming years, the VVD wants everyone to start feeling better step by step, including in the wallet via lower charges. There has also been a great deal of demand for entrepreneurs in this country in recent years. They have struggled to keep up their efforts and keep their heads above water. They are the ones who ultimately take care of the jobs in this country and have drawn us through the crisis. Then you shouldn't saddle them with higher burdens again. The VVD therefore considers it entirely right that the cabinet should use a competitive, lower corporate tax rate (Vpb) in response to the VVD-motie-Neppérus. However, the VVD is not in favour of removing all kinds of deductions, as stated in that letter. A lower corporate tax rate is good for jobs and jobs. We want the Netherlands to continue to have an attractive tax location environment, first and foremost for our Dutch companies, our own SMEs, so that they can compete well. Nor can we close our eyes to tariff developments in the United Kingdom, Belgium and the United States. The extension of the first share in corporation tax is a first step. As a result, more companies will soon pay the lower rate of 20%. This is particularly beneficial to SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u3	I understand the VVD side's plea for a low Vpb rate very well and she looks at other countries. Would Mrs De Vries therefore support the proposal that the agreement be made at European level to introduce a minimum corporate tax rate to ensure that there is no race to the bottom within Europe? Tax rates in Europe are already much lower than in the United States, China, Japan or the continents. This fiscal competition is taking place within Europe. Should this problem not also be solved within Europe? I'd like to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u4	Unfortunately, I have to disappoint Mr Groot: at least he is not going to receive that support from the VVD. We, as the Netherlands, feel that we are dealing with tax rates ourselves. We believe that this should continue to be the case. We do not think that the solution is to agree on this in Europe. Taxing is simply a competence of the Netherlands. If we continue to extend that low disk of the Vpb, we will eventually reach a rate of 20%. That would be good. The VVD aims to stimulate innovative start-ups so that they can grow more easily. Lowering the usual wage fits in very well. It is another proposal from the StartupNL VVD proposal that is being implemented. There is one other proposal in the package that has not yet been implemented: encouraging payouts in employee options. Start-ups don't always have enough resources to pay some higher salaries. They want to invest their initial ability to continue to innovate and grow. We are still looking at a proposal to make that more attractive. We shall be tabling an amendment to that effect. This will be for a small group of innovative start-ups who have an S&D statement. Moreover, that amendment still needs to be tabled. Finally, there is a proposal to solve the problems of retirement in its own right. Entrepreneurs can now get rid of a dividend claim and do what they are good at: enterprise. It is good that the Secretary of State responds to the demand of the VVD, among other things, to apply some coulance to the transition. This is regulated in the last letter of amendment. As a result, the transition is more careful and there is more time for good advice. I am here to talk about the Company Succession Scheme (BOR). Family businesses are important for the Netherlands. They provide a lot of jobs and jobs. It is therefore a good thing that there is a follow-up scheme so that the continuity of family businesses is not hindered. The VVD regrets that the Secretary of State did not want to discuss this issue with Familiebedrijven Nederland or a number of experts in this field. We still have a number of questions about this. From the replies, the VVD points out that a direct and indirect interest of 5% in the past was not already covered by the BOR, that the direct and indirect importance of the repair remains uniform and that the scheme is not implemented differently than before the judgment. Is that right? As far as we are concerned, the main thing is to ensure the continuity of family businesses. The Secretary of State says that it does not seem necessary for the purpose of the BOR to open the BOR to indirect interests of less than 5%. I have a question about the word 'appears', because the VVD really wants to know for sure. Will the Secretary of State be able to comment on that? My next point concerns tax avoidance. The VVD believes that tax evasion, tax fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing should be tackled hard. Following a substantial package of measures at EU level, a number of measures are now being proposed in the Tax Plan under way. It is good that a number of gaps in tax regulations that are misused for tax evasion and artificial constructions are closed. This applies not only to business, but also to private assets, as the Panama Papers recently showed. So the cabinet knows just how to detect and close these holes. In our view, it makes a clear distinction between real activities and artificial constructions. The latter will be dealt with. This is a good thing, but it is important to prevent real work-related activities from being affected. I'm gonna be on a couple of varia, on a few loose cases. I'll start with the time clamp. The CDA has tabled an amendment to that effect. In principle, we welcome more choice for people to use their capital insurance, but can a little more insight be given to the impact on consumers? For example, has there been consultation with the Financial Markets Authority? And what about the consequences for insurers and providers? That is already mentioned in the answers, but it is still rather vague as far as we are concerned. The VVD has also tabled two amendments. One of them contains an amended waste tax cover. The export tax is set at zero and should be covered by an increase in the waste tax. We do not think it is right that this sector should be penalised twice. That amendment has now been tabled. This is a joint amendment by VVD and PvdA. The other amendment concerns the loading posts. We have also put forward a proposal for a different coverage, because we believe that consumers are already paying enough energy tax at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u5	I think I missed one more topic under the heading 'varia'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u6	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u7	The soccer players.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u8	What's your question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u9	During the legislative consultation, both the VVD and the PvdA made it a good number that the footballers would be included in the burden of excessive remuneration, in the departure regime. They have said that this was all very unfair and that it should be reversed. So I have been waiting for an amendment to that point all day or all week, but I do not see an amendment and it has not been discussed anymore. What happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u10	We asked the Secretary of State if it was possible to exclude a sector. We have asked for this because we believe that, moreover, I still believe that this arrangement was not intended specifically for football clubs. After all, that is what this is all about: the employers in the football industry. A reply has been received from the Secretary of State, in which he throws up two big bumps. They make it complicated to solve the problem. We are still looking at that at the moment, but it is a complicated problem to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u11	The latter triggers me for a moment. Mrs De Vries says that we are still looking at that at the moment. "We" is that the PvdA and the VVD together? We also sometimes see some bumps on the road. We were just talking about the company succession scheme. Together with Mr Omtzigt, I have tabled an amendment to that effect. The Secretary of State only saw bumps, but if you believe in anything, you fight to the end to realize it. Does the VVD still think that these footballers should be catered for because they have to pay such a high tax when they get a fairly generous transfer fee or does the VVD recognise that it might well be well, perhaps? Was a little bit of election rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u12	I don't think you're solving the problem of state aid so easily. So it is not so easy to solve in this respect. I don't know what else to say. I understand that Mrs Schouten also encounters bumps on the road with several amendments. I think that anyone who makes proposals that come to the table will come across bumps, but this is just not easy to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u13	Can I have another one, Mr. Chairman? Let's look at the content. I can imagine that Mrs De Vries had such considerations even before she made such a proposal. It has been put down quite big: both the VVD and the PvdA advocated that the footballers, who deserve almost the most in this country, should be taken into account in taxation because it was all so unfair. I would like to know if the VVD will continue at all costs to realize this. Or was it just a little ball that's been raised and now lands really hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u14	I think it is a tax paid by the employers, not by the workers. It's just not easy to fix. That's the point. We have asked the Secretary of State quite openly about something that we do not think should be the elaboration of the law: is it possible to make exceptions to that? A reply has been received from the Secretary of State. He said that there is a problem with equality and there is a problem with state aid, so I cannot just solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u15	I didn't hear an open question in that WHO. I have heard the specific request that if footballers receive a post-payment of more than EUR 0.5 million, the employer should only pay a little tax. That was the only tax that the VVD said had to be reduced. Is it still the top priority of the VVD to allow football clubs to pay less tax for footballers with an income above 0.5 million................................................................................................................................................................................. Is that just the top priority and let the VVD just let the rest go, like the AOW-hole for military, which puts people below the welfare level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u16	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u17	I think there will be a lot of discussion about the latter and there will even be a VAO this week. We felt that this law was not intended for this situation. We asked the Secretary of State whether it was possible to exclude a sector for whatever reason. There has been an answer to that. Then you can say that I have made it very big, but I think I have devoted four or five sentences to it in my own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u18	Yeah, okay. The VVD is off now because it's technically impossible. If, however, the VVD had had the opportunity to reduce taxes, it had not submitted any proposal for this, it would have done so for only one group, namely the footballers with an income of more than 0.5 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u19	In my view, we have put forward very specific measures in the overall package that is now before us. Purchasing power measures amounting to nearly EUR 1.2 billion have been taken. So do not presume that this was the only proposal by or partly on behalf of the VVD. We have made sure that not 90% of the elderly are getting worse, but 80% are getting better. Then do not say that we have made no proposals at all. These are also proposals that came from the VVD/PvdA cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u20	I conclude that the VVD Group in the House of Representatives was not talking about the VVD Secretary of State, who indeed proposed a number of relief measures, but wanted to give only one group a tax advantage this year during the whole treatment of the Tax Plan: the footballers with an income of more than 0.5 million. Or have I forgotten a group for which the VVD Group has specifically asked for a tax reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u21	Of course, you can make it into a certain caricature. We indicated that we wanted to know if there was room for it. I just made the proposal to make it possible for innovative start-ups to pay out employee options. On that point, the Chamber can look forward to another amendment from us. So proposals have been made. There is also a complete package of the VVD/PvdA cabinet. There are measures to improve purchasing power significantly. There is also a reduction in the Vpb tariff for a group by extending the first disc. So do not say that this one measure is the only measure that has been taken partly on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u22	Mr. Chairman. This is the third tax plan defended by this Secretary of State. Although we have not come much closer to each other in substance over the last three years, I do admire the way in which this Secretary of State conducts the debate with the Chamber. I particularly admire the way in which he is trying to simplify the tax system. I, too, have tried to make my contribution at that time, but unfortunately we have not come together. This is a missed opportunity, I think. I welcome the fact that this year, for the sake of change, a tax simplification law has been incorporated into the Tax Plan. But the question is whether it has really gotten easier. Sure, things have gotten easier, so I have to admit. Think, for example, of the VAT refund for entrepreneurs who are dealing with a non-paying customer. They can request VAT more easily. At the same time, I note that the Tax Plan has indeed become more complicated. Look, for example, at the temporary reduction in the rate of the loading posts. I think that a lot of additional officials will have to get to work in order to implement the reduced rate properly. I also find the nexus approach in the innovation box very complicated. I'm not the only one, because the Secretary of State admits it himself. You have to take a counselor into your arms in order to perform it properly. Previously we had a deduction limit for food, drinks and pleasures for Ib entrepreneurs. I see that this was 73.5% and has now been increased to 80%, but this applies only to Ib entrepreneurs. If you're a VPB entrepreneur, it's still 73.5%. For an inspector at the Tax Office who has to carry out and check this in book studies, another exception has been added. This used to be all the same, but you're going to have to deal with two rates. Yesterday there was an intermediate day. That's a day for people trying to help others make their report. I understand by e-mail that 40% of the claims are made wrong after a divorce. That has to do with the arrangement for one's own house. It's 40%. The number of false declarations has increased in recent years. Isn't it possible to think of something for these simple things that many people have to deal with? It is something concrete to simplify it, so that people can benefit from it. I'm gonna go over a few points and start powering up. I remember the first time I was in the process of dealing with a tax plan. Then I made a point of ability: tackle power inequality and make sure that load on assets is fairer. In good times, I think there should be more taxation and in bad times people should be dealt with. I am pleased to note that a motion has now been tabled by me, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Grashoff (34302), No. 97) was adopted. It calls on the cabinet to work on the taxation of real returns. I think that's a win. As far as I'm concerned, that has to be rushed. We in the Chamber understand, of course, that it takes some time to give concrete form to a capital gain tax, but the people who are now paying 1.2% tax, while receiving 0.2% interest, cannot understand at all why such a huge tax is being levied. And that while a lot of investors achieve high returns and pay little tax. I believe that progress has been made in this area after years of fighting, but I would like to go one step further. As far as I am concerned, we should also ask for a higher contribution to the people with the highest abilities. Last year I had a note from the Central Planning Bureau about the capital gains tax and also the millionaire tax passed on. I regret that there are so few parties who wish to join. Because it is precisely by asking the millionaires that we can ensure that the burden on others can be reduced. With regard to assets, I have another question about the Backpay benefit scheme. That's an arrangement...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u23	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u24	I have two questions. Does Mr Bashir agree that a step in the right direction will be taken next year? 90% of the savers are getting better and the people with the highest assets are going to pay more. Does he see that as a step forward? Then there is the second question. I heard Mr Bashir repeatedly say: capital gains tax. Surely I can assume that Mr Bashir is on the trail of capital increase tax and not capital gain tax, or have I heard correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u25	To start with the last question; power increase tax is a tax where you have to tap out at the end of the year. I agree with that. I call it capital gains tax, but on the basis of my note, the capital gains tax was passed on by the Central Planning Bureau. It's too complicated to come up with capital gains tax right away, so we call it capital gains tax. If you make a profit on your assets, you pay taxes. The other question was about the 90% that is improving on it. Of course I'm happy about that. The interest rate is very low. You can't explain it when people have to pay more than 200% or 300% on their interest. According to Mr Groot, 10% is going backwards, but I do not believe that. At that 10% the power goes to box 2. I'm afraid that route isn't closed. Mr Groot and I tabled a motion last year to address this problem. It is partly implemented, but I think more could be done with it, because that 10% will not pay more but less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u26	That is why we are also tackling investment e.g., as Mr Bashir knows. Mr Bashir says that people have to pay the savings interest twice or three times, but if you are a tax partner, you pay up to a ton of 0.4%, so that is not two or three times the interest you receive, just for correction. It is good to hear that Mr Bashir is talking about a capital increase tax and not about capital gains tax, because that is quite different. As Mr Bashir knows, this latter form offers a great deal of scope for postponing taxation until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u27	That's right. That was also the call in the note passed through by the Central Planning Bureau. We have also written in it that we mean capital increase tax. Mr. Chairman. I ended up in the payback arrangement. This is a settlement for the satisfaction of former civil servants and military personnel who have received no or no full salary in the former Dutch Indies over the years of war. They were compensated by the Minister of VWS at the end of December 2015. Now the following problem arises for people who apply for the backpay scheme and receive compensation. This is partly considered as a special asset by the Tax Administration, but this still counts for the basis of savings and investments. This increases the level of the own contribution for care and support on the basis of the Wmo and the Wlz. In my opinion, it was not intended to confront these people with a higher contribution of their own because they have received satisfaction. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that? In my view, the satisfaction was intended to solve this issue simply and not to create a new issue. In the case of the separate private assets (APV), a hole is closed. I have pointed out that tax avoidance remains possible because of the new allocation freeze. Under the new scheme, an Ib company can simply be introduced into the APV. In the case of a Dutch company, the APV is, as a result, taxed with Dutch corporation tax. However, the allocation to the entrepreneur stops because with the APV an enterprise is driven. This will then be subject to profit tax; instead of a maximum of 52% income tax in box 1, a maximum of 25% corporate tax will be levied on profits. Normally this corporate tax is combined with 25% income tax in box 2, but that is not possible now because no allocation takes place. Under the new scheme, therefore, an allocation freeze can also be used to obtain a tax advantage. I ask the Secretary of State to look at this and come up with a response, because I think it was his intention to tackle tax avoidance. That brings me to income policy. During this cabinet period, the highest incomes have improved more than the lower, not only in cents, I say to Mr Groot, but also in percentage. In the coming year, purchasing power seems to be fairly divided, but that does not alter the fact that the PvdA Group has lost a lot of money. The amendment I tabled with my colleague Rik Grashoff van GroenLinks does what the cabinet does. The tax reduction will also continue to apply to higher incomes, but will become less, so that people with low incomes can also benefit. We increase the general tax discount, so that the minima are less behind the rest. Of course, I'm not surprised that the Secretary of State betrayed it. Nor will he be surprised that we will table this amendment in order to change anything about the unfair distribution of income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u28	Do I understand correctly that this amendment by GroenLinks and the SP increases the tax burden on workers, people with jobs, by a total of 800 million? Your colleague Grashoff was honest about that. He said this was right. I would also like to hear Mr Bashir's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u29	There are a lot of minima that also work. Indeed, part of the money goes to people who do not work, because the general tax rebate also applies to people who do not work. However, I think it is a bold statement to say that all the minima do not work. I wouldn't take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u30	I don't think I said that either. I asked a very simple question. Mr Bashir is trying to "tiptoes" around it. That's not good Dutch. Is the tax on workers going up by 800 million? That may be a choice of the SP and GroenLinks, but let Mr Bashir be honest about it. He chooses to make workers pay EUR 800 million more taxes. That's a choice, but stand by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u31	This amendment does nothing but reverse last year's tax reduction for higher incomes. That money is given to everyone, to people who work and people who don't work, with low income. A part of the money that is now being spent by people who work does indeed go to people who do not work. That is also fair, because they did not get that tax advantage last year. We make the tax advantage for higher incomes a one-time tax advantage and we give it back to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u32	Mr Bashir needs a lot of words! Just tell me what it is! Is it 800 million more or less? His colleague, Mr Grashoff, with whom he has tabled the amendment, says that it is correct. It is about 800 million higher taxes for people with jobs. Then why does Mr Bashir keep very long stories here? Mr Bashir, just say that this is true and that this is your choice. It's okay, but stand by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u33	I stand for fair sharing. I think it is far too much to say how should I say it without insulting Mr Van Weyenberg? It is a short-sighted thing to say that the money goes from the workers to the non-workers. There are a lot of low-income people who work. For a low-income person who can hardly make ends meet, that one euro counts extra. Mr Van Weyenberg says that 800 million of the workers go to the unemployed. Some of the money is actually being recovered. That money went to people with a lot of money last year thanks to the CDA and D66. We're going to reverse that. That's what I call fair sharing. I come to tax-evasive multinationals. In the legislative consultation a number of questions were asked about BASF's tax manoeuvres in the Netherlands, which allowed it to circumvent nearly EUR 1 billion in tax payments. It is not the first multinational to get into the news in this way, and certainly not the last. Nor is it the first time that the Netherlands has been mentioned as a country used or abused by many multinational companies to avoid tax. For the record: The Netherlands is the favourite tax haven among companies from the Forbes 500. More than half of these companies have at least one subsidiary in the Netherlands. The Netherlands also plays a bad role with regard to developing countries, because companies from developing countries are also massively circumventing the tax via the Netherlands. I would also like to ask several questions about BASF again, so that we can then propose measures to put an end to this behaviour. Unfortunately, however, the Secretary of State will not let go of this in his reply, because he would then talk about an individual taxpayer. He is not allowed to say anything about this under Article 67 of the AWR (General Law on State Taxation). Unfortunately, this is the way fiscal confidentiality works. But what does this case say about the way we are doing here in the Netherlands? Can the Secretary of State in general say whether he agrees that the Netherlands is mentioned time and time again in the list of tax havens and in the list of companies that evade tax via countries? Research shows that in 20 of BASF's 29 subsidiaries there are not even employees in the Netherlands. Companies that have no substance in the Netherlands on a voluntary or non-voluntary basis can therefore avoid tax through the Netherlands. Still, there's good news. The Secretary of State makes a number of good proposals on substance requirements. I think, along with Mr Groot, that a minimum wage is indeed better than a minimum number of employees. I'd like to ask you a few questions about some very special news I read last week. The European Union is in the process of drawing up criteria on the basis of which a country is seen as a tax haven. That is a good thing. But what was my surprise? It is not unanimously felt that a country which levys an ineffective or non-profit-making tax should be included on this list. When I read that, I had to laugh about it. But soon I seriously wondered where it would go with that list. If you don't charge taxes, you won't be on the list of tax havens. I ask the Secretary of State what the position of the Netherlands has been on this matter. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that a country in which no tax on profits is levied should be called a tax haven? And how do we prevent that list from being virtually empty, because, as with the OECD list, no one fulfils the criteria for being classified as a tax haven? I would like a response to that. The SP Group believes that there is nothing against increasing the high rate of profit tax, with the aim of bringing it more into line with that of our neighbouring countries. As far as I can tell, the tax rates of our neighbouring countries are between 30% and 40%. These countries also provide a greater share of their total tax revenues from capital. Good example does follow well, you'd say. I therefore propose to increase the second share of the income tax from 25% to 26%, an increase of only 1%, and to use the proceeds to reduce the landlord's tax so that the rents can go down. Co-operatives are thus enabled to invest again and to reduce the rents. I have also tabled an amendment to reduce the first instalment of the tax on profits. Colleagues have accused me of reducing the tax on profits and that this is not in line with what the SP wants. In the end, the SP wants to tax more profits, but small and medium-sized enterprises can always count on the SP. SMEs should not be increased, but should be reduced. Small entrepreneurs, like the people with a paid job, belong to the hardworking Dutch people we often talk about in the House of Representatives. We do not therefore agree with the Secretary of State, who says that the burden relief should be given to the big boys in order to meet SMEs, but not to small entrepreneurs. As far as we are concerned, the first disc is reduced to 18,75%. The Secretary of State says this would be disruptive and therefore concludes that his proposal is better. However, I do miss a really good argument. That is why I maintain the proposal to reduce the tax on profits in the first disc. Finally, I come to the PEB, the self-employed pension. This, too, is a measure by which the Secretary of State aims to achieve simplification. Dgas (director-major shareholders) will no longer be able to build up their own pensions; they will be given the opportunity to stop doing so. We have one deal now, and we'll get three later. What is even worse is that the Secretary of State has still not found a solution to the possibility that a partner of a dga will return to his signature to buy off the PEB. As a result, the question is whether DGAs will agree to the buy-back of the PEB. The result is very simple: all entrepreneurs who have doubts about this, who are young or do not have the money, will be left with the PEB; people who are against their pension or whose pension has already entered will of course take advantage of the possibility to buy off at 34.5% discount. As a result, this scheme will be a gift for wealthy pensioners. Was this what the Secretary of State intended? Was it really his intention to create an arrangement for rich dgas who have already retired, or was it his intention to simplify the system? If the latter was his intention, why has he still not come up with a solution to the problem of a partner's own pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u34	I just want to make sure I got it right. Is it true that BASF does not have any real activities in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u35	I said there were virtually no substance activities. I understand BASF has 29 daughters, 20 of whom are in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u36	Of course, the question is how many employees they have here. Mr Bashir and I remember each other from the city council of Leeuwarden. At Heerenveen there is a BASF plant, where employees work. Can Mr Bashir say how many employees BASF currently has in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u37	As I understand it, there are virtually no employees. It could be outsiders, people who were hired outside. I, too, can remember from our time in the city council that we spoke about BASF. Of course, that doesn't mean that all these employees are employed by BASF itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u38	Perhaps Mrs De Vries has the redeeming word?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u39	I don't have the numbers either, but I know there's at least a decent factory there. The Secretary of State will not be able to say very much about the tax data, but perhaps about the number of employees BASF has in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u40	That would be nice, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for another round of answers. That was another round. We've had a long meeting on this, too. Today we are really putting the final finishing touches to the last tax plan of this cabinet period. It is again a thick piece of legislation, but the dominant picture is that the Netherlands is much better off than it was over four years ago. Next year, the purchasing power of a large number of people will increase and, despite the ongoing problems of pension funds, older people will share this. Unemployment is still far too high, but this morning CBS reported that 250,000 jobs have been added in the last two and a half years and that the number of unemployed has fallen by 37 000 in the third quarter. The economy is growing more now. This growth is almost 3% on an annual basis. The government deficit has been eliminated. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has also been rehab of decades of addiction to Groningen natural gas. The next cabinet period will be the first period for eight years that will not be marked by austerity. This coalition has delivered, often also in cooperation with other parties, for which thanks. I am proud to have made a contribution to this as a representative of the people. Like I said, it's a big piece of legislation. To a large extent, this is related to measures against tax avoidance. We are very pleased with this, although we still believe that it is not good enough, for the simple reason that we are only at the beginning of a catch-up. It has been done far too little for years. Last year we tackled the tax flight from e.g. to Belgium. Last summer, the ATAD was established under the Dutch Presidency. Next year, we're gonna take on flash investments, for example. We are fighting abuses with "private equity" parties and we are taking action against tax avoidance through so-called secluded private assets. All this helps, but in the meantime thousands of billions are running through letterbox companies in the Netherlands whose final destination is sometimes a tax haven. There are many billions running through the Netherlands, which have nothing to do with real activities in the Netherlands, with Dutch tax treaties that are not intended for this purpose. Earlier we tabled a motion with GroenLinks (34550, no. 43) calling on the government to present options for heavier substance requirements. Those options have come to fruition, for which I am grateful. However, the Secretary of State states that it is not necessary because many other measures are already being taken to combat treaty abuse. Then we see again the argument that heavier substance requirements can lead to tax advisors moving to other countries, for example Luxembourg, and that the Netherlands could cost money. Mr Omtzigt also made such a comment, but in relation to the exempted investment funds. That is a line of reasoning: we continue to cooperate in tax avoidance as other countries do. This cynical self-interest must finally be removed, because that is what many people are wrong with. After all, they have to pay ordinary taxes. It also undermines efforts at European and OECD level. It also ignores the fact that it is in the Dutch interest to finally do something about our poor international reputation as a transit country. Unfortunately, Mr Grashoff is ill today, but he will table a motion tomorrow asking for the substance requirements to be tightened up. I will wholeheartedly support that motion. I myself will table a motion tomorrow on the development of ATAD in our national legislation. The Secretary of State says that it is premature to record this now, as there will be a legislative proposal next year, which will then be consulted. I will draw the opposite conclusion. I note that I am just in time to give direction to that bill. I will therefore ask for an address to the House with which we opt for a targeted and effective approach and not for the weak approach that we now seem to be heading for. I would like to comment on monuments and education. We've devoted a lot of hours to that. It is wise that the cabinet has chosen eggs for its money. As far as I'm concerned, that could have happened before. Perhaps with the exception of Mr Van Vliet, who is not here today, I have not been able to catch anyone in this Chamber with any enthusiasm for these proposals. By "no one" I also explicitly mean coalition partner VVD and our party, the Labour Party. I come to the waste tax. We continue to think it is unreasonable that the export tax on waste should not continue to be passed on to the waste processors themselves. That is why we have signed an amendment to undo this. Then the housing corporations. It still bothers me that housing corporations are treated fiscally as they were ordinary commercial parties. They are not, at least not in so far as they provide services of general interest. After all, that is their core task. It is unfair and, above all, ineffective that housing corporations should pay transfer tax when social housing is transferred from one housing corporation to another. This is only meant to achieve better business management, closer to the tenants. Nor is it true that non-profit-making activities are subject to full corporate tax. I have accepted that we are not resolving these issues in this Tax Plan, but they are not, as far as I am concerned, off the table. I therefore ask the Secretary of State for a letter that may even be at the end of February which sets out options to eliminate these forms of undesirable taxation. I also ask the Secretary of State to consult with Aedes on this matter and to incorporate the results of the consultation in that letter. The letter is then intended to play a role in the forthcoming cabinet formation. I'd like a response. I come to the time clamps on capital insurance. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Ronnes have tabled a very sympathetic amendment in that context. The Secretary of State does not see any tax objections, but he does say that further investigation is needed and consultation with the insurance industry. I think that, like Mrs De Vries, is a somewhat vague and unsatisfactory answer. I remember having the same discussion four years ago. Once again, the answer was that further research and consultation with the industry was needed. So this isn't getting anywhere. My request to the Secretary of State is to give a little more explanation. Can he also get in quick contact with the AFM, for example? If that organisation also sees no objection, then the amendment may have the "Court of Justice" assessment. Then we can make a more neutral assessment. A number of times, in the paper consultation, it was noted that the Tax Plan, apart from the monuments and training deductions, would be very poor in policy terms. I do not share that view. What is probably meant is that there are fewer political differences this year, but that is different from a lack of policy. There is no lack of policy at all. I refer to the abolition of self-employed pensions. I think this is a fundamental reform which has been under way for four years. It's about unclamping over 30 billion in power. That is very good for employment, investment, but also for tax revenue, as far as I am concerned, in that order. We are getting a whole new recovery regime for taxes and supplemental debts. Unfortunately, that will have to wait another two years, but this is very important for all those who are still facing a whole stream of letters from the Tax Administration/charges. This is really going to provide administrative burden relief for vulnerable people. Thanks for getting this started. I have also mentioned a whole series of measures against tax avoidance. In addition, there is a whole series of simplification measures ranging from tobacco and alcohol excise duties to the abolition of the transit requirement for pensions. I also conclude that the cabinet and this Secretary of State are not sitting still until the last minute. This is certainly true of the officials in the Ministry, who have had to work a lot of overtime again this year. I also thank them for their commitment to the public cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u42	Mr. Chairman. I think it is appropriate to start by joining with Mr Groot's very justified words of thanks for all the work that has been done. It is not just a question of the legislative proposals, but also of all the answers to the very many questions we have asked. I am aware that those answers do not appear out of nowhere in our inbox. I also think that a word of thanks should be given to all those employees at the Tax Office working in, day out, working with all the laws we lay down here. We sometimes have debates here about things that go wrong, but on balance, of course, we still have a Tax Office to be proud of, which collects the money with which we can pay for all these important things, from care to education, in this country. I'd like to have said that. There are a lot of legislative proposals. I believe that we have been debating this with each other for about 18 hours. I am going to mention two more key points and a number of more specific points which remain open as far as the D66 Group is concerned. An important problem with the Tax Plan is the fact that the reduction in working hours is not as high as previously envisaged. After all the debates on the 5 billion package last year, I think it is a shame that a step backwards is now being taken to make it more attractive to take a job out of benefits. The total amount involved is 500 million. That is €46 per employee, which is less advanced if you get out of a benefit. It could have been so nicely different by just letting it go through and making sure that work is going to pay even more, and paying it out of fiscal greening. Greening is something in which we still have a huge blow to make. That is why my group has tabled an amendment on this. In addition, I have a number of specific points in the area of the Tax Plan itself. I asked questions about the conversion of office buildings to housing and about the fact that a converted office building already in the GBA, the Municipal Basic Administration, is subject to a different transitional tax rate than a private house. The Secretary of State has answered the questions, but I continue to find it really complicated, at a time when we want to stimulate the transformation of offices into homes. I just think this is an unpleasant situation. I have a few more questions about that. The Secretary of State says that the definition would not be delineated, but if the definition is that 2% transfer tax applies at the time when a property has a house number and is in the Municipal Basic Administration, isn't that a clear demarcation? The Secretary of State also says that the solution proposed by D66 would cost EUR 30 million. I find it remarkable that the Secretary of State first says that he cannot define it, but can then quite precisely put a price tag on that measure. Apparently, he's got a delineation after all. I'd like to get a response to that. What's all this in the 30 million? Apart from the question of whether it would cost 10, 20, 30 or 40 million, does the State Secretary agree with D66 that it would be worth looking at this again? I do not now have tens of millions in my pocket to solve this at once, I say honestly, but I will come up with a motion in second place to ask the Secretary of State to consider what solutions can be found for this. Mr Grashoff is not here, but he has tabled an amendment on urban heat plants using residual heat. I am in favour of that amendment. Mr Grashoff has also indicated the coverage. I'm curious about the Secretary of State's reaction, but I thought this was an omission in the law, and I think it's a good thing to put it right. I feel the same way about the idea of biological plant protection. I know that Mr Dijkgraaf has just tabled an amendment on this subject, together with Mr Omtzigt. I also find it special that biological plant protection will not have access to the innovation box, but chemical plant protection will. I do find one point in the amendment complicated, and that is coverage from the EIA scheme. This is an important measure in the context of sustainability. I would be sorry if we had to get 2 million out of that. Doesn't the Secretary of State see any opportunities within the innovation box to cover this? That would be my group's preference. I would like to raise two more points concerning tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u43	That's a very creative one. I'd like that, because you don't have to cut back on the EIA. But is it becoming a general D66 line to say, Secretary of State, figure it out? I understand, and I would like to, but does Mr Van Weyenberg actually say that it is such a marginal amount, that should be possible within the large pot of 600 million dollars?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u44	Mr Dijkgraaf may know better than I that there are budgetary rules and that you have to cover these things. I'm just checking to see if there's anything in the innovation box file. I strive for cover; that seems to me also to be the use in this house. I find the amount that is attached to this remarkable. I'm curious what it's based on exactly that it costs. I'm checking to see if we can't find the cover somewhere inside the innovation box file. That would be worth a sweet thing to me, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u45	I can only agree with that. I see the Secretary of State's creativity growing by the minute. We're gonna hear it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u46	Mr Van Weyenberg was reviewing all the amendments, but he forgot an important amendment from me, namely on tobacco. What's the case? A lot of taxes and tax brackets are indexed every year, but the excise duty on tobacco is not. I find that special, because why shouldn't we index tobacco? If everything becomes more expensive and tobacco does not become more expensive, then tobacco will become cheaper, with all the consequences, for example for young people. My question to Mr Van Weyenberg was whether he saw anything in the way of indexing tobacco taxes just like all other taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u47	I wonder if this interruption is something that Mr Bashir himself has forgotten. Is it extremely honourable to me that he regrets that I am not passing through all of Mr Bashir's amendments? I'll remember that for next time. Or is this actually a hidden question to the Secretary of State? Let me say this. I am going to look closely at the amendment, but Mr Bashir has perhaps already noticed that in our amendment on monuments deduction we are increasing the excise duty on smoking tobacco in order to reverse the cuts on monuments. So I, too, was rooting in the tobacco dossier. I am going to look closely at Mr Bashir's specific amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u48	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u49	I ask this question specifically to Mr Van Weyenberg because he himself has tabled a similar amendment. The Minister's proposals have now been withdrawn. I therefore thought that Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment had lapsed. But even if that is not the case, our amendment is still an indexation proposal. That has nothing to do with raising or lowering taxes. It is about the principle: if everything becomes more expensive over time and one product remains cheap, then that product becomes cheaper. For example, you will have problems with people who can buy that product more easily, such as young people. I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u50	You have explained your amendment in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u51	I believe that this was a new deadline for Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u52	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u53	Of course, you cannot stack measure on measure. I'll be right back to the monuments and education deductions. I am still not so confident that we do not need the tobacco taxes to solve the problem there. That problem is now one with me. I had arrived at tax avoidance. Let us note that on this point we are doing a number of things at European and OECD level that we did not think could be done in this Chamber five years ago. That's pure profit. We are far from there, but that is pure profit, and I think we should also note that. However, I still have a question about the cabinet line in the effort to reduce the Vpb. It strikes me that between the interpretation of that phrase in the letter on the location climate by Mrs De Vries of the VVD and the interpretation by Mr Groot of the Labour Party there is more room than the D66 cake point between those two groups. So I ask the Secretary of State once more whether the cabinet has decided that the Vpb is going down. As far as D66 is concerned, of course, you must always remain competitive, but a race to the bottom must be stopped. I will therefore again, but this time together with Mr Groot, put forward a motion in second place tomorrow in order to achieve a minimum rate at European level. The second point on tax avoidance concerns the exchange of information on rulings. I find it rather painful that we do not reach the deadline for this ourselves. We, the Netherlands, have put a lot of effort on it, including the Secretary of State, and now we cannot do it ourselves. I get the impression that the Secretary of State cannot actually commit himself at the moment when he thinks that this has been achieved. Or did I misunderstand that? If so, what is the time when the rulings will be exchanged? What's the target date? I welcome two commitments from the legislative consultation, which I would like to reiterate here. In the further analysis of possible simplification proposals, the State Secretary will also look at the exemption from VAT on admission examinations for vocational education. My group attaches great importance to this. I'm curious when we hear more about it. In view of the questions put by Mr Groot and Mr Dijkgraaf, but also by Mr D66 last year, a letter from Minister Kamp will be sent in January which will examine whether the resources for research and development work will go beyond average to large companies. We had this concern in the measures last year. So far it seems to be going well, but I would like to thank the Secretary of State for keeping his finger on the pulse. I look forward to the letter. In the legislative proposal with the other fiscal measures, Mr Omtzigt proposed an amendment to remove the time constraints on mortgages. I must say that I am sympathetic to that, but I do have a small concern. Perhaps Mr Omtzigt does, but I ask the question to the Secretary of State. It seems important to me to ensure that people are not left with residual debts. I have read the proposal in such a way that the aim is to ensure that someone who, for example, gets an inheritance and is thus able to repay it earlier, can do so without any tax rules being prevented from doing so. Mr Omtzigt will probably say something about it himself, but my question to the Secretary of State is how he looks at the guarantee that people will not be left with residual debts. That seems complicated to me. Around self-retirement I agree with what Mr Groot of the Labour Party just said. This is a serious measure involving a great deal of money. It is a problem for a lot of dgas who were simply stuck in their eg because their mortgage provision was underwater, to keep saying it in retirement terms. The Secretary of State has promised to give us further answers to questions from Mr Bashir, among others, on the position of the partner. He would come back to some of these questions, which is going to be tomorrow, and I am curious about that. We need to take care of this very carefully. I assume the Secretary of State will come up with good answers. They are also important to my group. We have asked questions about the continuing requirement, which is now being removed for retirement, but not for pre-retirement. The Secretary of State said he needed to take a look at this with SZW's colleague, because of possible consequences for social security. That seems to me to be a fair warning, but it is important for me to know when I will be told. I would have liked to have heard that by now, so that I could deal with it with a motion or perhaps even with an amendment. I haven't seen it yet, but maybe I was wrong. This brings me to the environmental tax bill, or the public loading posts. Let me also say in the final phase of the discussion of this Tax Plan that I am pleased that the motion adopted by Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks and by Mr D66 is now being carried out by the State Secretary. I love that. It's a step forward. I regret that the Secretary of State says that it is not soluble for home loaders. He is concerned about enforcement. That is a legitimate concern, because nobody wants people to be fooled by people who get a home-loading point and run their washing machine on it, as the Secretary of State said. At the same time, I hear from the energy companies that with technology and links to the car things are possible. I will come back to that in the second term, but what does the Secretary of State think is technically necessary in order to make it possible in the long term that home chargers do not have to pay the high energy rate? Last but certainly not least, this brings me to the bill on the maintenance of monuments and on education. It's a very big cut. Minister Bussemaker wanted to convert both the monument deduction and the training deduction into an expenditure scheme, a subsidy scheme, but decided to drop half the budget. My group considered this to be extremely unwise, and my group considers that to be extremely unwise. We must cherish heritage in the form of monuments. What was left of the arrangements turned out to be a huge decline for people who had to maintain an expensive monument. Indeed, as Mrs De Vries said, shoes were thrown away without any new shoes. That is extremely unwise. That is why we have indeed tabled an amendment which at least removes this cut. Yeah, it's good to see if an arrangement can be more effective. If there are problems, it's good to see if you can adjust the scheme. Then it is even good to see if you might consider a scheme on the grant side to be better than a tax deduction scheme. But it shouldn't be like that, with the knife on the throat. That is why I think it is sensible that this measure has now been postponed for a year. The same great inconvenience was felt by my group when it came to the measure on training deductions. At a time when we are all talking about lifelong learning and about the fact that it is very important that you spend your life studying, half of the government's contribution to education is eliminated. I really think that's a form of ghost riding. Here too, there are serious doubts as to what should replace it. The arrangement isn't here yet. It also appears that many fewer people can use it. So I just don't think this is a good idea either. Now we can think: well, but that arrangement is now in place, so there is no problem anymore. However, that is not the case. I have a few specific questions. If I understand correctly the letter of 9 November, this delay will now result in a loss of €800,000 in savings from the Tax Office. That loss has to be covered somewhere again. That was news to me. Can the Secretary of State answer that? Can he tell us how that's taken care of? It would be a bitch if the tax authorities now had to pay the bill for the really ill-thought-out course of this bill. I was going to table one motion tomorrow to remove the austerity on education and monuments. I think that is an important signal. There was also very broad criticism in the Chamber. Only Mr Van Vliet was in favour, and Mr Grashoff wanted to take another look at it. I therefore expect all parties to agree that these cuts will go away. The minister of OCW said that the money should come from Education. No, I'm telling her, that's not how I'm gonna get blackmailed. I found this an unpleasant way of debating with the Minister. I think she would be extremely unwise if she did so. I think she should simply come up with a solution to the Spring paper. And who amazes me when yesterday a letter rolled in that actually says: 'Dear Finance Committee', I am simply going to talk to the OCW committee about this subject, because hopefully people will think differently about it. She actually writes: the austerity stands, unless something crazy happens. She actually writes in that letter: I'm just going "right as it goes" with those two new arrangements. She actually writes: I'm just going straight as it goes! I was wondering if the Minister had been present at our debate. I checked it again, but she was there. What kind of crazy is that? First we get a letter saying: I'll keep it on. It has been heard that about the entire Chamber is critical. Then, one day before this debate, there will be a letter which actually says: I will continue. I don't like it. My group was also very concerned about this. I immediately got a lot of worried signals, for example from the trade union movement. There was a question of whether the reduction in training was a matter of concern and whether there was a reduction in training. Worry also arose in the world of monuments. There they say: hey, it turns out that the minister is still going on this dead end. I will therefore be tabling two motions tomorrow, not one. So, with the first motion, I'd like to take the cuts off the table. But I will also file one to simply repeal these laws. I would have liked to give the cabinet the benefit of the doubt to come up with a solution. But the Minister's letter basically states that we are going to continue with this expenditure scheme in education and we are going to continue with the cuts on monuments. That letter actually says, "Room," it's nice that you don't want to. I conclude that we should simply repeal that law. I'll ask for a Chamber ruling on that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u54	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your extensive speaking time. This is the most important debate of the year, namely how to ensure that all the other ministries here can spend their money. That is what is actually regulated in the Tax Plan. I note that, fortunately, in this most important debate of the year, only a minority of the political groups present today in the Chamber are present to participate. That is remarkable in itself, because we are talking about hundreds of billions of taxes and premiums to be levied in a year. There are still some small differences, but most of the amendments seem to be about an amount of, for example, 2 million, such as Mr Dijkgraaf's, or about 20 million. They're relatively small amounts compared to what's going on here. How much tax each taxable person pays is not arbitrary. This is the principle of justice: more income means that you can contribute more to society. That is the essence of the principle of carrying capacity. The principle of carrying capacity was the guiding principle of the Income Tax Act 1964, but the principle of carrying capacity is far removed from the income tax and supplementing legislation in 2016. If we look at marginal rates, it is not the ones with the highest incomes that we ask for a solidarity contribution from, but the middle incomes with a modal salary. If you earn minimum wage, with hard work growing into an almost moral salary and being a breadwinner, you can hand in almost your entire income to the state treasury. These people are subject to a marginal tax rate of 90% or even more than 100%. Also for low-income or middle-income workers must work wages. The government itself admits that. I'm gonna tweet this post so everyone can see it better. On page 2 you can see that not the top pays the most... 56%... but this breadwinner. It pays on average 70% to 75% tax. When he has an income of around €30,000 and lives in a rental house, that is more than 90%. What's the logic of that? And it's not about a little extra but about a whole stretch. What else does this have to do with the principle of carrying capacity? The principle of carrying capacity also implies that people with equal standing should be burdened equally. Of course, some differences are possible if we believe that a person has desirable behaviour, such as combining work and care, undertaking or creating jobs, but only within reasonable proportions. If we now make the comparison, as the Secretary of State did for us, between how many income tax different persons with the same income of €35,000 gross pay, then the differences are shocking. If two people earn the same thing but there are differences in how they acquire the income or one of them has a young child, then one person doesn't pay the fear of 0.2% income tax and the other 34% income tax on exactly the same income. The second pays 177 times as much tax on the same income and it also has an advantage with the surcharges. All this is driven by models. If you put this kind of thing in CPB models, it delivers fantastic results, because a breadwinner doesn't work any less if he has a sick partner. So the work incentive is not needed here, but is it necessary that the breadwinner should immediately pay 75% marginal tax? Yeah, if you use the CPB models. And yes, they provide jobs in 2040: green figures in the employment estimate. But it also produces discontent and crooked faces, and it eats away at the tax morale. People who work hard can see that their extra labor is of little or nothing. However, they don't see it right away, because they have the money in their bank account for a moment, but a year later they get a post-tax on the income tax return or they have to pay back the surcharges. According to the Secretary of State, what does the principle of carrying capacity mean if one taxable person pays 0.2% tax with an income of €35,000 and the other 34%? For this Secretary of State and his predecessor, it shouldn't be nice to hear that the effective tax rate in the middle income range has risen from 42% to 48%? Is there any way to bring that back? Then I come to the law on monuments and education. That was an unwise and totally imperfect law. In the WHO, the Minister of Education did not have an answer in four hours from the financial experts. It was just a secret investigation. The previous investigation was completely distorted in the explanatory memorandum. The implementation costs were found to be the thirtyfold of the current implementation costs, while the explanatory memorandum states that it is an administrative burden reduction. And I can go on for a while. Then we got the analysis first it was declared state secret; well, for the monument deduction I know few state secrets and what turned out? Transitional arrangements have already been discussed. Does that mean that that analysis was made after a decision was made? It was said in the WHO that we are doing this on the basis of good research. That research was analyzed with a few bubbles and I think it was made afterwards. Is that right? After all, the dates were carefully wiped out in the Chambers that we received. I'd like to know when that analysis was made. You can laugh at this now, Mr Groot, but it is now on hold. And indeed, Mr Van Weyenberg was not quite in line with the Minister for Education on one point: she did not keep it a little bit, but she kept it until after 15 March. That's about equivalent to throwing over the fence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u55	Mr Omtzig is absolutely right, but what makes yesterday's letter so strange is that the Minister says: I expect you all to agree in January to the fact that I am going to make a training scheme on the expenditure side. Isn't that just an attempt to create an accomplished fact for the tax spokesmen? That is especially bad news for all those people who are concerned about this bill and who hope that it will not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u56	I thought that was a sharp question. I would indeed like to wait for the answer to that, but I do not think that we are obliged to adopt laws that have not even been submitted in the final form. I am also still waiting for a letter of amendment from the Ministry of Education, because there is already a subsidy scheme in there that needs to be reversed. Yeah, it's all in there, but somehow it doesn't come to the Chamber. Whatever's not right with me is the cashier. Mrs Schouten has made that point very clear; I do not need to do that again. Furthermore, I am not entirely comfortable with the fact that about 200,000 people now have a reduction in education, while 40,000 people will receive a voucher. That's the outcome if I'm trying to figure that out a little bit. In other words, the number of people benefiting from this is falling by 80%. So there's some tension between that principle of "lifelong learning" that they're talking about all the time in those letters of Parliament and the fact that it's only offered to a very small group. The Secretary of State's gonna take a look at it. There is only a voucher offered to people who work to pay all the costs of the school. A small group will therefore be reimbursed 100% of the costs. However, when people work themselves, I think it is fair to say that there is a public contribution which does not cover 100% of the costs. The rest just grabs completely wrong and gets 0%. That's gonna be stressful. That doesn't fit in with the policy. But we'll wait for the headline. The letter we received in the meantime was just as badly thought out as the original bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u57	Mr Omtzig forgets one thing, namely that the Minister also claims that things are getting much better, even if five times fewer people get it and even if the budget is cut by half. I always learned from my father that you shouldn't believe in people with miracle solutions. I had to think about that. I have a follow-up question for Mr Omtzigt. We can see that the Minister now wants to go ahead with these arrangements, even though it has blocked tax abolition. In view of this, is it not just better that we adopt a motion tomorrow, and Mr Omtzigt has been warmly invited to join me in simply withdrawing these legislative proposals, so that there can really be no misunderstanding in the cabinet that it should not continue on this road?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u58	I have already indicated in the legislative period that I am expecting a substantial letter of amendment which may also have financial consequences...... and that I simply want that letter of amendment to this bill to go through the Council of State. There was no new regulation in the law, so I just can't imagine you doing it this way. They may then discuss in the Chamber whether to re-subscribe it or whether to come forward with a totally amended proposal. But let me put it this way: I am in no way bound by what is to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u59	That was my approach, too, until yesterday's letter. However, there was such a "but I'm going to go on like this, Room" atmosphere that I'll just install that last safety valve and say: pull it in, because then we're sure we can't be surprised. But this is where Mr Omtzigt and I come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u60	I love this optimism. If the Minister of OCW had been there, the Secretary of State for Finance knows it too, I would have liked to know whether the main problem outlined by the Minister, namely that boilers and parquet floors are deductible when they should not be, is not just to be solved within the monument scheme. If that's the problem, then I think it's simple: the list of things you pay for, you adapt. If that is looked at carefully, I can imagine something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u61	As a renovater of a national monument...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u62	I don't have any self-interest, because it's all over. It's all fixed up in good times. I can assure Mr Omtzigt that parquet floors are not deductible under this scheme. You can try. If it is not checked, it may be granted, but in any case it is not legal and not in conformity with the intended effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u63	That's right, but that was the example the Minister of OCW gave in the Chamber. I also noticed that I couldn't find that. I could say kitchens are tax-deductible. I can imagine when it comes to a historical, seventeenth-century kitchen in a house that can be preserved in original condition. But to make all kitchens deductible by default at the time you have a national monument... In a normal home, a kitchen needs to be replaced once every 25 or 30 years. In a national monument, it's no different. If that is the problem, then the solution is not to move from a tax issue to a subsidy scheme. Perhaps changing the terms is also a possibility. Unfortunately, I have a municipal monument in a municipality that has no subsidy scheme for this. So I do not feel very sorry for the spokesperson of the SGP Group either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u64	I fully agree with the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u65	Please continue. And again, the Minister of Education is not here tonight. However, you are free to ask her about this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u66	It just happened to be about the tax section. I already saw the Secretary of State nodding. I come to the amendments. Apart from the law in force, one of the black edges of the tax package is that the succession scheme for family businesses is limited. Because of an exceptional judgment, the Secretary of State abolishes the BOR for small interests. That's unreasonable. That's out of line. That is why I have tabled an amendment to apply the BOR to the interest exclusive of investment assets in exceptional cases which constitute a small amount of business capital. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has explained, after many questions, what abuse of the judgment he fears. However, there is still a lack of clarity. It is feared that a holding company with temporary excess liquidity will purchase an interest of less than 5%, to which the BOR applies. But the temporary excess liquidity, as opposed to permanently surplus liquidity, constitute enterprise capital. The budgetary risk is therefore zero. Moreover, if that is the fear, I would like to include in the amendment that the company's activities should be in line with those of the subsidiary in which a small interest is held. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The coverage consists of another undesirable part of the Tax Plan: reducing alcohol excise duties. Especially the champagne tax drops by tens of percent. If alcohol taxes grow together, that's fine, but in upward and not downward direction. The Secretary of State knows that I am very much in favour of implementing tests on amendments, but the implementation test on my amendment and Mrs Schouten showed something remarkable. I quote from the execution test: "The change has taken place in the releases of 4 November 2016 and cannot be undone in 2016." In short, we are really in a position here... We are sitting here a little meeting for nothing. I'm very surprised. The vote on this bill is on 17 November. For years now, the Tax Plan has been voted on around that date. The Secretary of State knew that the Chamber could no longer address his proposal in the Tax Plan to reduce the champagne tax. So this affects the House's budget right. The Secretary of State is proposing something and the Chamber can agree or not, but it can no longer be reversed. I would also like to receive a constitutional explanation from the Secretary of State. I hope for the only correct response, namely: it can be reversed. This Secretary of State and this government have increased the tax on tap water and also the income tax. I can give you a very long line of examples. May I ask the Secretary of State to mention one other tax that has been reduced as much as the tax on champagne? Anybody expecting a party on March 16th? What exactly is the background? Why is this the tax that had to be reduced this year? I have retabled the amendment to an emergency braking procedure in the add-on scheme. Mr Groot had mistakenly assumed that the Secretary of State considered a separate emergency braking procedure unnecessary. Now that he knows that this is not the case and that the emergency braking procedure is very useful in addition to an evaluation clause, I give him the opportunity to apply it. If there are any colleagues who believe that it is appropriate to increase the add-on for electric cars to 11%, I shall table that amendment again. I don't do it because I don't think it's a chance, but not because I don't find it. Now I'm gonna retire on my own. Due to the low interest rates and the different calculations of pension claims, many DGAs have been unable to pay dividends for years. This bill now solves this problem, provided you can use the law. As with all things in life, the partner has a crucial role to play here too. More than half of the pension you're building belongs to the partner. On the basis of the law on settlement of pension rights in divorce (Law vps), which the chairman knows very well from another role, the pension of a married man or woman is half due to his or her partner. It's about retirement. In addition, the partner also has a right to the part of the pension that sees the survivor's pension in the event of death. On the basis of the present bill, the partner must give his consent by means of a form from the Tax Administration. It may then be very important for that partner to know what he or she is drawing and what he or she is losing through the disappearance of the pension under his or her own control and also that he or she knows what will come back. The Secretary of State refers this partner in the note following the report to an advisor. But pension advisers can't do anything with this law. In fact, the example of compensation for a partner married in the community of goods is incorrect, both if the partners in the community of goods are married or if they are not. The answer given by the State Secretary was first that no compensation is necessary in the event of a buy-back and then that a partner is entitled to 73% of the old-age obligation in the event of a conversion. Is the Secretary of State aware that pension rights are excluded from the community by the VPS Act? The partner also loses a share in the pension calculated by the State Secretary at 73%. In the community, the partner is only entitled to half. So he or she is still entitled to compensation. I'd like to get a reaction to this. That would be very helpful to the field. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the partner is entitled in the above example to 73% of both the depreciation of the tax value, which was €600,000, and the retirement obligation of €300,000. Now I come to problem two. If the partners married in the community of goods have indeed found that the partner of the dga is entitled to 73% of the old-age obligation and the dga at 27%, then divorce will nullify this because the old-age obligation falls into the community. The partner is then legally entitled to half of his or her 73% and entitled to half of the 27% of the dga; so add just fifty-fifty, while he or she should receive a compensation of 73%. This can only solve partners by making prenuptial terms that maintain the community of goods, but the old-age obligation falls outside. Because the self-employed pension is subject to the VPS Act. If the partners want to make other arrangements, e.g. buy-back of the old-age obligation, the vps sticker must be legally removed. In the reply of the VPS Act, the following was written: "The solution we have now advocated means that the law provides that the exclusion or exclusion is to be excluded. derogation is only possible by prenup or by a written agreement for the purpose of the divorce. Thus, outside a separation situation, a notarial act will always be required." That is good news for all notaries in the country, because that means that all dgas who are married must be paid off or converted to the notary. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? Fortunately, dgas now have three months longer. You'd almost think, "Happily the notary offices too." How does the Secretary of State judge this term, if all married or divorced dgas have to go to the notary again for this law? And another additional problem that the State can afford. In addition to the partners, there is another group of DGAs that is very disadvantaged by this bill, namely the DGAs that have some external insurance. I have asked a few questions about it, but the problem is even bigger than the Secretary of State has so far. My estimate is that there are about 12% of self-employed DGAs; a decent group. They have concluded a contract with insurers that they will continue the agreement unchanged for a specified period. This bill does not allow them to comply, and this leads to serious damage. For people who would retire in a few years' time, you will soon be talking about redemption costs of €80,000. In addition to these redemption costs, these dga's lack the guarantee capital and the agreed interest. This money doesn't go to the government, it goes to the insurers who re-insured it. This harms not only this group, but also leads to a risk to the public authorities of claims for damages, as the public authorities in this way seriously infringe property rights and thus Article 1 of the Additional Protocol of the ECHR. Is the Secretary of State aware of the risk of a claim arising here? For pension claims already built up, the "own management" body remains an authorised insurer. Why does this not apply to policies which form an integral part of the self-employed pension commitment? If these external policies can go through, the problem is solved. I will table an amendment to this effect. My final question about this law is why the circle of potential creditors at an annuity is wider than at the old age obligation. It makes more sense that the pension is only due to the partner than all heirs. Then I come to a few other comments on the Tax Plan. The innovation box is harmonised. That is well done, except in the case of plant protection, which my predecessor has spoken about, and Mr Dijkgraaf will also speak. I have another point to make, which also responds to Mr Van Weyenberg's comment. My specific question to the State Secretary is whether an authorisation based on European Directive (EC) 1107/2009 can provide sufficient legal protection to be functionally equivalent within the meaning of Action Line 5 of the BEPS. Will the Secretary of State present this to the European Commission? If you don't ask, you don't know if you're getting permission. The aim is to obtain authorisation for the innovation box for natural plant protection based on micro-organisms. This applies not only to natural plant protection, but also to other natural innovations outside the box. I believe that the European Commission itself did not want this. The reason I am asking is that if we do it this way, I do not have to cover the 2.5 million and then I even made Mr Van Weyenberg happy. I ask this question on behalf of the Party for Animals, by way of exception. Those who receive special assistance from the municipality which is cancelled must pay additional income tax the following year, as well as huge amounts of supplements, while they do not have a cent of extra income. Together with other spokesmen, I have been calling for attention to be paid to this for years. I am grateful to the Secretary of State for coming up with a solution in the year-end decision. I look forward to receiving that in concept. He wrote that the problem will only be solved in the future. In recent years, a lot of people have been affected by this arrangement. These people have debts that sometimes amount to tens of thousands of euros. They must pay them off while they could not do anything about the origin of those debts; read all the Ombudsman's reports. The continuation of these tax debts, which are based on paper income, is simply unfair. If the directors of Finance and Social Affairs had previously sought a solution, there would not have been so many people in the municipal debt settlement. I therefore urge the Secretary of State to come up with a solution for taxpayers whose assistance has already been converted into a gift. I come to the bill on the Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws (Other tax measures 2017). That's what you get for dealing with seven billings. In fact, I'm not so bad that I'm not using four minutes per bill. The new CO-test system has certainly been tampered with. The Secretary of State did not think so, but in his answers he kept open the possibility that it was. Audi and Volkswagen have both admitted in the German press that it has been tampered with. Since our spokesperson's environment has such a car, I'm absolutely sure. The letter of amendment states that owners of such a car will receive a discount from the Tax Administration for years to come. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that cars that have been tampered with, or suspected of being tampered with, are re-examined on the basis of new values? And is he willing to raise on that basis? Wouldn't it be bizarre if we allowed those old counts to exist infinitely? We simply have to file a claim for tax fraud with these car manufacturers. As a result of fraudulent acts, their buyers paid less tax, while they couldn't know that. They could not know that an Audi is not an economical car, although it is a sporty car. If a possessor fakes facts, he gets at least a fine. The owner is now not to blame, so the car manufacturer must be punished. I do not yet know what to think of the new terms of ownership for purchased, indirect interests, on which the Secretary of State wrote in his answers. Of course, we do not want all kinds of new interests to be acquired just before a death or just before a donation in order to be covered by the company succession scheme. But is it qualified as an entrepreneurial capacity? And do taxpayers get away with it, or is fraus legis lurking? It is quite important to lock companies for five years, because in the case of takeovers, joint ventures or tactical interests you lose some of the company's succession facilities. We don't want family businesses to stop doing business. There is no basis in the law for the new term of possession. The Succession Act only requires that an enterprise should be driven for a period of time, but it does not prescribe the size of that enterprise. The last word on this is, of course, for the tax court, after which the Secretary of State can propose another legal repair. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to refer in the next motion and commitment letter to the abuse and unintended use which the Secretary of State is trying to avoid with this position. I come to the Law temporarily reduced charging posts with an independent connection. On page 15 there is a very interesting table. It was also interesting what Mr Van Weyenberg said. We must, of course, ensure that those who can buy a Tesla pay half less for their energy than those who have to run their washing machine. It seems to be economically logical. I'm not sure why that fits in with the justification. But that table shows that charging at the electric home is the total tax burden on fuel per megajoule 3. In the case of petrol, this is 5.5, in the case of diesel 7.4 and in the case of LPG 5.2. So that is already about 60% more tax at the moment. If you cut it in half, because you do it with that connection, it's going to be 1.6. In fact, you pay only a quarter of the tax you pay on non-electric cars. Does the Secretary of State himself think he's putting down an honest bill here? Or does he just think, "Well, it has to be?" What exactly is the logic here? I sometimes wonder what the logic of certain laws is. I have a few other points. For the sake of short, I agree with what Mr Bashir said about the back-pay issue. He was quite right to ask a question about this. The government answered the wrong question about the memo about the fine on the VUT, the RVU charge. Let me ask you a very clear question: can the Chamber within a week see all the memos and e-mails that contain the abbreviation "RVU" (early retirement scheme) and that went around the Ministry and the Tax Administration in December 2015 and January 2016? We get the impression that a lot of people were aware of the RVU tax. We would receive a letter about the 10,000 objections that the Tax Administration has illegally removed. That was two weeks ago. I am very curious about the state of play. Is it true that the Tax Administration itself has not, in accordance with the General Administrative Law, called people and said: well, we are not going to go through with that objection? Is it true that tens of thousands of people have been shipped off in the wrong way? Every day, morezzp'ers lose unnecessary work because the model agreements are unworkable. On Thursday we, the spokesmen in the House of Representatives, will hold a meeting in the House of Representatives. Of course, the Secretary of State and his officials are very welcome to hear howzzp'ers have been treated. There will also be representatives of companies explaining the legal risk that they will have to cancel cooperation withzzp'ers. With regard to the VAT on pension funds, I expected a question from Mr Groot. I am only holding on to the Secretary of State's promise that once the ruling of the Supreme Court is there, we will hear why it can be done in Belgium and Luxembourg and not with us. This is a way to drive pension funds across borders. I'm coming to the time clamps. I like to take it off. I've never seen a lobby of insurers because we offer the opportunity not to pay the tax fine when you want to pay early. We don't change anything about the contract; we just change the rule that you have to pay a tax fine if we think we should lower the debt. That's what we've all wanted here since 2008. Then why should we perform execution tests and do all kinds of other things? This idea has been wandering around here for four years and every time it's brought up, a number of people say it can't be done. But, of course, you can. I agree with the previous speaker on the need for further work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u67	I have a great deal of sympathy for the point of time clamps. I had only asked one question, which was not about the points that Mr Omtzigt is now raising, but about the duty of care and that people with residual debts remain. I understood Mr Omtzigt and Mr Ronnes' proposal, if I have it, as follows. It is mainly written for people who, for example, by inheritance or otherwise, are able to settle their mortgage in full or in full before the fifteen or twenty years in the tax legislation. Or does Mr Omtzigt also want to make it possible for someone to unclampe and remain left with a residual debt today? I'm looking for exactly what Mr Omtzigt wants. For the first I have a lot of sympathy, but on the second I would have a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u68	I also leave the second open in the amendment. As a result, it is possible that someone is currently using the money to pay off and there is a debt left. If that person is only working for 15 years, at least he has not gone through his 30 years, which started running in 1998. So I find the word "residual debt" a little strange, because he has a number of years to repay that amount. If someone wants to do it that way, it seems to me a strange condition that the target capital should be exactly the same as the other capital, although that would be the normal course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u69	The approach is therefore that the remaining 15 years are used to pay off the remaining mortgage, for example annuity. I am trying to think along with Mr Omtzigt, because I think the aim is sympathetic, but I do not want us to end up with rough edges, which we will regret later, by quickly arranging for each amendment. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u70	It's a fair question. Sometimes there is a guarantee, with how much percent you get on it; it is often a little higher than when you put your money in a savings account now. That is why it is important for people to be given the right advice before they make that buy-back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u71	I'm curious about the monthly expenses. What happens to that? Suppose you've been saving through capital insurance or investment insurance for 15 years; you still have 15 years to go, but you buy it off. Are you gonna charge me a month or a half? Can Mr Omtzigt tell us anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u72	That depends very specifically on the kind of policy you have. If you have a fixed interest rate on your policy, it is often a bit unwise to pay off in the meantime if you are not yet at your full sum. If you are close to full redemption, you have to pay off, because if you save, you have to pay a huge tax on the superior. That's the post-tax. So it might not be very pleasant for that group. For the group that has an investment mortgage and has invested somewhat conservatively, up to money market funds, it might be very advantageous. It takes some customization. We say take the tax clamp off. That doesn't mean it's wanted for everyone at any time. The monthly expenses depend very much on the personal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u73	They're very complicated products. People should be advised on this. It is also important to prevent people from making decisions on this. If you remove the time clamp, you will send a signal, including to the people who, for example, have a savings policy, where it is very unwise to buy it off. After all, the monthly costs go up considerably. Could we not come up with a solution whereby the time squeeze only goes off in cases where it is advantageous to buy off, i.e. in the case of investment policies? Then we keep the time squeeze for capital insurance with savings policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u74	They're in the same article right now. There is no distinction in the law between the cases in which it is advantageous and the cases in which it is inappropriate to buy off in one go. Those 15 to 20-year-olds have become a bit obsoleet after the last reform of mortgage interest relief, because there will be no new policies. So you don't have to maintain them anymore. But it is often wise for people to ask for advice before they proceed to full redemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u75	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u76	I'll be very brief. The amendment was tabled by Mr Omtzigt. You could try to arrange, for example, for investment insurance to remove the time squeeze and not for savings policies. You could make a distinction in that. If that's not possible, I'd like to hear it. But if we can solve it with that, I think we can get a majority in the Chamber rather. Then you make sure that in sensible cases you can act wisely and avoid unwise decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u77	Unfortunately, the cut is not only between investment policies and savings policies. It's also about the alternative to what you can do with the rest of your mortgage. That's customization. You can't get that caught in an amendment. All I'm doing is taking the tax fine off. Then it's up to people whether or not they want to pay off at the time. They're completely free to do that. It is also completely free from taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u78	I sense a great deal of sympathy, but what we are doing here through an amendment is quite a lot. I think we should look at all the consequences. Has Mr Omtzigt also considered making an appeal for each motion to be dealt with by the cabinet at once? I am looking for Mr Omtzigt's considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u79	As previous speakers have said, we have brought it to several budgets. I also find it interesting that the House of Representatives believes that we should determine whether it is right for an individual to pay extra or not at that time. We never do that with an ordinary extra repayment. If you have a refund-free mortgage, it is sometimes unwise to pay off a few thousand euros. Still, people do. We do not punish that and we certainly do not put it in the law that they should not do so and that, apart from doing something unwise, they also receive a great fine. So I do not understand what colleagues are doing here and why they want to regulate it in taxation. I am also surprised by the reaction of the sector to the fact that I am solving a tax problem. I'm not preaching a breach of contract, but I'm just saying, you don't pay a tax fine on it anymore. They're all running towards us: you shouldn't want that. Then I know there are a number of policies they'd rather not have paid off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u80	For the record, these are not the arguments I am using. That is not the background to the question either. I just want to make sure that we do this carefully and that I don't see the chunks that we haven't thought about here. That's my only purpose. The whole point of being able to pay off if people want to, is in line with the reduction of the long balance sheets of households, which my group is in favour of. But precisely because I think it is an interesting direction, I ask questions. After all, these things are about big money. Those things are of great significance. I'm trying to make a careful assessment. That is the role of a representative of the people, but I do not have to tell Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u81	We will. I find it interesting that, in response to a number of letters, this question is asked when it comes to early repayment of an investment mortgage, but not when it comes to whether it is wise in individual situations to buy a self-employed pension. In this respect, there is a great variation between people. People can be disadvantaged, but we do not find that interesting. However, when letters come from insurers, it suddenly becomes interesting. However, that difference escapes me a little bit. Then the final point, the number of rulings. The government thought it would have to exchange 2,000 to 3,000 rulings at OECD level and 6,000 to 8,000 at EU level. What are the updated estimates and did we have any insight into how many rulings there were? Following on from Mr Van Weyenberg, I also ask when this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u82	I will come back to the champagne treats, as Mr Omtzigt called it. I thought that was a rather unpopular summary, because it's about all the hot wines and not just about champagne. It's also about proseccos. Mr Omtzigt also said that this was a reduction in excise duty, but that was not the case. It is a question of aligning excise duties so that the average level of excise duties remains the same. It is a budget-neutral operation, in the sense that all wines are now treated equally. Mr Omtzigt now covers an amendment with an overall increase in excise duties. I assume that people with a small interest in a company, heirs, for example, will be able to pay a few euros more for a bottle of champagne. Mr Omtzigt has been fighting for years against the increase in excise duties, particularly for border regions, but they are now being put at a disadvantage again. The consistency of this argument escapes me a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u83	The consistency of Mr Groot's speech also escapes me. It's true it's not just about champagne. It's also prosecco and cava. It may be that champagne fits more with the VVD and prosecco more with GroenLinks and the PvdA, but we still see that as luxury products. The specific rate of excise duty on these hot wines and, by the way, on wines with a high alcohol content, I believe, is above 15%, so that is not much of a reduction next year. It is true that other rates are being adjusted, in the sense that they are going up slightly, but we are not a reason for this increase. I have a little lost Mr Groot in this Tax Plan anyway. The champagne excise duties go down considerably, but the tax on footballers with a payoff of more than half a million must also be reduced. We make other choices. If that's populist, then I'm populist, but I don't see why. I stand up for the innovation box, for companies that can continue to undertake, even if the heir takes over the company. I stand up for those who are breadwinners and have a marginal tax burden of 80%. I don't stand up for footballers of more than half a million and not for champagne drinkers. If other parties don't feel that way, I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u84	That has put an end to your term, Mr Omtzigt. I call Mrs Schouten, but not after I have said that you are right. There are eight of the seventeen political groups, but they represent 122 seats. So don't underestimate yourself. I just wanted to make that clear in the light of what you started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u85	Mr. Chairman. When I look at how the last speech ended, you might almost think that we are sometimes talking about very hedonistic tax plans here, about the tax on the bubbles, about footballers, when we haven't had the boats yet, but they were also in the Tax Plan. Anyway, no questions have been asked about that. I have a service announcement. The last two legislative amendments I have also spoken on behalf of Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP, but I let him go tonight; he really has to do it himself tonight. The last piece of legislation I started my story about this Secretary of State's reform day. Those who were introduced a bit into history knew that at that time I also referred to Luther, the great reformer, who nailed his theories to the chapel of Wittenburg. I have mentioned a number of theories, but I have also denounced pressing issues. I would like to repeat it here for the Acts. My theories were next. We are still waiting for the Secretary of State's day of reform. He's not Luther. The tax system must no longer lead to sharp division. The general tax rebate is no longer a general tax rebate. Consistency is preferable to yo-yo. First the arguments, then the burden increases, because if you do it the other way around, then you're going to make an oil dumb or the joke is made more often than not monumental mistake. Family businesses deserve the future, also for future generations. The IRS can be more merciful. The great thing about the legislative consultation was that the Secretary of State agreed with me on almost every point. This did not, unfortunately, mean that the Secretary of State also responded to every request. But I do not want to faint this evening and first of all thank the Secretary of State and the Cabinet for the matters that have been settled and clarified. For example, I welcome the fact that the Tax Administration is going to be more barbarous in debt by the State Secretary. My group has often spoken about the role of the government, and of the Tax Administration in particular, in the problem of poverty. This is mainly due to the complexity of the arrangements, the misfiling of forms by citizens or the lack of timely provision of information, which can lead to substantial recovery. Of course, people have a role to play in this first and foremost. However, it is certainly not the case that everyone deliberately makes mistakes in order to get better. It is therefore a good thing that there is now a streamlining of the recovery of taxes and surcharges. As far as we are concerned, we could have done it a little faster, but I can see that this Secretary of State is really working on it. However, I had doubts as to whether the proposal should favour the Tax Administration more than it already is, as this could put other creditors more at a disadvantage. This could have social consequences, for example in the case of eviction. The answers to my questions have convinced me. The tax administration's flexible attitude to friendly arrangements will have a positive social impact. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for having once again checked this issue with civil society organisations. I shall now turn to the abolition of training deductions and the depreciation of monuments. It has been postponed until further notice and the legislative proposal is no longer part of this debate. That is good news, for the lover of careful legislation and, of course, especially for the owners of monumental buildings and the people who follow education. At the same time, my group is still concerned about the way in which the cabinet handles the austerity exercise at the Ministry of Education, especially when I read the letter from the Minister of Finance, which states that the planned cuts in training vouchers, compared to the budgetary envelope of the current training deduction, are simply increased further, by 21.2 million per year in the period 2018-2022, to cover the budget problem of 106 million. This way of dealing with the budget gap makes me fear the worst for the way in which the 25 million cut-off in relation to monuments is handled. I know that we must have this debate with the Minister of OCW, but I hope that the other monuments, such as the Sim in the budget of OCW, will not be seized. Colleagues also mentioned it earlier: a letter has been received from the Minister of OCW, after we had held the debate with her for five hours. The conclusion from that letter is that it seems as if what was said there has not been heard. That is a very special way of doing things. For my group, it is intricate that this tax debate will lead to a reduction in education and our cultural heritage. Then the present postponement is no more than a pyrrus victory for this Chamber. I didn't go into politics to win pyrus, I went into politics to achieve real results. My colleague will be holding the debate with the Minister of OCW, but I am also curious about the response of the Secretary of State on this point. The bill was originally in this package. What does the letter from the Minister of OCW mean for the progress of the legislative proposals? An important point for my group is the marginal pressure. During the debate in committee...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u86	I think Mrs Schouten and D66 are in line here. We also share the wonder about the letter we received yesterday. It has led me to seriously ask for withdrawal tomorrow, where I would otherwise have had enough of a motion that had called for no cuts. I wonder if Mrs Schouten can tell me how she's in there. I have to say that my confidence that we can only wait for a moment has had a small chew yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u87	I share that chew, let me put it this way. In my view, we had a very careful discussion with the Minister of OCW, in which this committee even gave a kind of hand to the Minister in order to get out of this impasse. Our line is: first to discuss the content, which is well thought through and then to draw the consequences, budgetary or whatever. That clearly didn't happen here. I would first like to await the reaction of the Secretary of State before I say exactly what this means for the final consideration of whether that law should be totally repealed. However, I would like to highlight the fact that this is a very wonderful course of action. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. During the debate in committee, I considered, among other things, the high marginal pressure. This is generally true for incomes from around €20,000 to modale, and in particular for some distressing cases where marginal pressures exceed 100%. I understand, of course, that surcharges such as the rent allowance, the care allowance and the child-related budget should be reduced, and that this leads to a high marginal pressure between €20,000 and a modal income. However, the measure to completely reduce the general tax rebate, which, as the Secretary of State admitted, is no longer a general tax rebate, from around €20,000, has made the marginal pressure problem worse. This is most likely to be reflected in the above-mentioned income trajectories. More work, more earning therefore hardly pays in the path from a low to a modal income. That's the generic image. If we zoom in more specifically on different groups, extreme differences will come to light. The employee entitled to the income-dependent combination discount pays up to an income of €20,650 no tax at all, while the single earner with two children and living in a rental house at a gross income increase of €5,000, from €27,000 to €32,000, net €57 goes down. So that's a marginal pressure of over 100%. I drew attention to this during the legislative consultation. It is a good thing that the cabinet is working on this now, because every relationship is lost. At the same time, I realise that a solution that reduces marginal pressure does not cost money and has no major purchasing power consequences is something like drawing a square circle. With the observation that, for a single group, the better understood, I think about which group I am talking about, the marginal pressure can rise to huge proportions, I have arrived at the debate on the unequal tax treatment of different groups with equal gross income. The Secretary of State has given us a very clear and insightful state during the written reply. It made it clear once again how big the differences in taxes to be paid are with an equal gross income of €35,000, an almost modal income, nothing strange. The answers showed that a beneficiary with a child under 12 years of age is not over-paying 177.5 times more tax than a startingzzp'er with a child under 12 years of age and with a partner with a higher income. That was the most extreme example, I know. But in absolute terms, the differences between the other groups are also considerable, such as between employees and those with equal gross income, not to mention the differences between the groups I mentioned earlier, the one- and two-earners. As is well known, I have made several proposals in recent years to reduce these differences. Think of the argument that the income-dependent combination discount should not continue to increase, as happened last year. Think of the proposal to at least exempt household households with young children from reducing the portability of the general tax rebate. Unfortunately, however, all these proposals could not count on a majority in this Chamber. Buying power and jobs, that was the argument. But we can't be caught for one hole. I have been thinking really hard about how we can make a move on this. I have had an amendment drafted, although it is already in place, and I thank the officials who have worked hard on it but have not yet been tabled, because we want to do one final check. I believe that the amendment brings all the worlds together. The difference between the single and the two earners is reduced and the problem of marginal pressure is reduced and employment is also promoted. The Secretary of State is looking very curiously at me now, but I'll explain. As is well known, the transferability of the general tax rebate is completely reduced. Next year, 40% of this tax discount will be transferred from the most earning partner to the non-earning partner. In this way, the gap between one- and two-earners is unnecessarily deepened as far as we are concerned, without it serving employment, while that is the main objective of the cabinet behind increasing the income-dependent combination discount and to a lesser extent... I'm sorry, I'm messing with my text. I'm gonna take it over, because this is important. The transferability of the general tax rebate shall be reduced. Next year 40% of this tax discount will be transferable. However, the income-dependent combination discount and the employment discount are still simply transferable. This still deepens the gap between the single and two-earners. So we have a less transferable general tax rebate, but still a transferable income-dependent combination discount and labour discount. My amendment therefore includes the proposal to remove the transferability of the income-dependent combination discount and the labour rebate and to align the phasing-out path with the reduction of the general tax rebate from next year. The yield of structurally 270 million has to be plowed back at a lower rate in the second disc, where the marginal pressure is highest. I just gave it up. So a win-win-win situation. This does not affect employment. It doesn't cost jobs. In fact, it's probably gonna get some jobs. There will be a fairer playing field between the one and two earners. We are consistent, because if we really want to move towards an individual system, we will have to do so consistently. And we also lower the marginal pressure in the second disc. In our proposal, the rate in the second disc will fall by 0.15% next year and structurally by 0.3%. The Secretary of State can't be against this, can he? I will table the amendment as soon as possible so that the Secretary of State can study it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u88	And the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u89	I'm in. It's a nice plan. Thank you. If I interpret it correctly, it's about the cashability of the IACK and the employment discount, which you can now transfer to the most earning partner if you pay too little tax yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u91	I don't understand yet. You can't hand over the IACK and the employment discount at all, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u92	It is if you're a tax partner. You need a tax partner, that's true. Then you can hand it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u93	The only condition is that that partner works. This is a very different transferability from what we know in the general tax rebate. That's where you can hand over to the least-earning partner or non-working partner. Then it's about transferability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u94	Is it stuck with the word "transferability"? But the fact is that if the least-earning partner has an income-dependent combination discount that is not fully cashable, that IACK is transferable to the most-earning partner. That does not do anything about employment, because that most earning partner is already working completely. It does provide a greater tax advantage in this case for this two-earner family. We would prefer that money to be used to reduce the marginal pressure around the mode and therefore to lower the second disc a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u95	I think the target is the same with what Mrs Schouten wants and what the SP wants. We both want to do something about the difference between the single-earners and the two-earners. However, I believe that Mrs Schouten is now carrying out a very difficult exercise. In my view, it can be much easier, namely by increasing the general tax rebate and removing the money from people with high incomes, to whom money was given away last year. That's what the SP and GroenLinks are proposing. Doesn't Mrs. Schouten feel something for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u96	I have already told Mr Bashir, during the legislative consultation, what effect his amendment will have on that earner. The one-earner has two moves. The general tax rebate is already set at zero around an income of a good €60,000. If you make a little more money, you don't have a general tax discount at all. This is often the case in the case of a earner, because as a household earner they earn the total income for the household alone. The second point is that the transferability of that general tax rebate is being reduced. So Mr Bashir is right when he says that we are increasing the general tax rebate. However, that transferability will be reduced at some point. That is a part of government policy that we have been fighting for a number of years. In the short term this might give an incentive for someone who earns less than €66.000, because at €66.000 the discount is zero. But in the long run, this is precisely the solution that bites the tail. In fact, Mr Bashir's proposal, even less quickly, does not have a general tax rebate, and he gets a solution that is actually an instant solution. There is no structural change in the problem of a much higher tax burden for the single earner. There are two advantages to our proposal. After all, the rate in the second disc is reduced, the marginal pressure at that point is reduced. Secondly, this reduces the gap between the single-earners and the two-earners. As a result, I see a much more sustainable effect in our proposal than in Mr Bashir's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u97	Mrs Schouten and I often think differently about this. I think we can see that. I indeed opposed a proposal by a number of parties last year to increase the burden on working mothers, for example. But I'm trying to figure out what Mrs Schouten is proposing right now. I will, of course, look carefully at the amendment. Does this mean that the burden on families in which both parents work is simply increased? Let me get this straight. After all, the money has to come from somewhere. On balance, isn't money from families in which both parents work, going to families where one parent works? Isn't that just the slide that Mrs Schouten is now proposing, nicely presented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u98	Last year the aim of this increase in the income-dependent combination discount was to increase employment. That is why all our counter-proposals were voted down. I've been puzzled hard now in a way to make sure it doesn't affect employment. That was always the argument for D66. The proposals were intended to promote employment, or at least not to reduce it. And I just wanted to make sure that we just get a fairer system. Mr Van Weyenberg did not come to the Chamber to maximise the difference between a earner and a two-earner? That does not seem to me to be the starting point, but that is actually what is happening. It's almost an ideological point of D66. I'm looking for a bridge to that gap and a solution to those extreme examples I've been giving for a while. These examples show that we are really out of control right now. Even people who are not at all able to opt for a earner or a two-earner, are simply presented with the bill. So what we are doing here is actually building a piece of justice where it is no longer there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u99	As far as I am concerned, the objectives were indeed to promote employment and the economic independence of women. I have also consistently mentioned this last objective in those debates. That's why I was against plans that made the partner's work less attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u100	But what makes this less...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u101	Maybe I can finish my interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u102	Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u103	That is why I was always opposed to this higher burden on working mothers. But I have put a very simple question to Mrs Schouten. Does this proposal now reduce the tax burden on single-earners, and is it paid by families in which both parents work? I think the answer to that question is, if Mrs Schouten wants to answer that, yes. That's a choice. Last year's Tax Plan also reduced the burden on sole earners. We paid it out of greening. As a result, all workers improved. If Mrs Schouten makes a proposal here, I think it is right for her to say honestly: I want two-earned families, both of whom work for parents, to pay a little more. The money has to come from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u104	I do not know about Mr Van Weyenberg, but we both pay taxes in the second disc. The return team takes place in the second disc. It's for the whole of the Netherlands, if you're above that income. That's not just for the one-earner. We are only bringing about a piece of justice where this injustice last year was wasted, without employment effects. Perhaps there are even positive employment effects. I am still curious about the State Secretary's opinion on this. I hope he can shed some light on that. Families are not going to pay any more taxes for the single earner. The transferability of the income-dependent combination discount goes back to the second disc. Mr Van Weyenberg also benefits from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u105	It is an answer to your question, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u106	No, Mr. Chairman. I don't understand. There's no free money. Mrs Schouten and I agree. Now she says, "I have something that's good for the one-earner." That's gotta come from somewhere! I'm gonna study this, but my picture is clear. That is an ideological difference between Mrs Schouten and me, which I respect. But free money doesn't exist, so this money is being raised by someone. I'll study it, but if I understand correctly, those are families that both parents work for. They are going to contribute on average to the single earner, because otherwise the financial picture will not come around. I have a lot of confidence in Mrs Schouten, but euros cannot even be magical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u107	Let me take back to the demands that Mr Van Weyenberg has always made and which he has now mentioned: the economic independence of women. What does this proposal do with the economic independence of women? Nothing at all, because those women are still being rewarded, they still keep their income-dependent combination discount when they go to work and it still increases as they go to work more. What does this proposal do with employment? Nothing at all, because the most earning partner will no longer work if he gets more or less transferable income-dependent combination discount. What does this proposal do with marginal pressure? What? It could be more. I would have preferred to, but at least it does something. We're gonna take a step. That's good for anyone who earns around fashion; I just gave the examples. I really can't imagine why D66 would be against it on the basis of his own principles that D66 has always put on a tax plan. Once again, these are not always my starting points, but I have tried very hard to bridge the gap that sometimes exists between one side of the Chamber and the other side with a proposal in which I really only see win-win-win. I hope the Secretary of State comes to the same conclusion, but I'd like to hear that tomorrow. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. There's another amendment I'm coming up with. I have already announced this in the Housing and National Service budget. This reduces the landlord's tax by 100 million in favour of housing corporations investing in zero-on-the-meter houses. Making our economy and society more energy efficient deserves much more priority. That is why my group is proposing that housing corporations be given a boost in the right direction. The cost of that push is covered by the tobacco tax. That is my proposal, which will be submitted in the course of the evening. I agree with what Mr Omtzigt said about the succession scheme (BOR). In my view, our amendment does justice to the ruling of the Supreme Court. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's opinion. I'm gonna finish up. I started this argument by saying that the reform day seemed to have arrived for this Secretary of State when he took office. Not long after his arrival, a promising letter came our way, announcing the need to clean up the mess of our tax system. The fact that the cabinet could reform with some outside help has shown enough around the AOW age, healthcare expenditure, housing market policy. Over the past year, our elderly tax system seemed to be up. At least 5 billion was available for relief, which is an inevitable lubricant for a tax review at all. In fact, the Secretary of State's adage became: a reduction in charges without a system review is a missed opportunity. Despite this justified adage, we have indeed missed this opportunity. Thus, the government's tax reform engine came to a halt. The urgency didn't turn out to be big enough. The visions turned out to be too opposite. As far as my group is concerned, this is one of the first issues to be addressed by a new cabinet. The Christian Union is keen to create a tax system that is fairer and simpler than the current one, so that we can deal with it for at least ten years and hopefully a little longer. We will continue to do our best to build bridges between young and old, between employees,zzp'ers and other entrepreneurs, between free-sector tenants and homeowners, and between one- and two-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u108	Mr. Chairman. Older people are and remain a lockpoint for this cabinet, again in this Tax Plan. The Secretary of State stressed in the note consultation that 90% of the elderly would have deteriorated without Princess Day's purchasing power package. 23% of older people remain at zero or lose purchasing power. In the case of workers, this is only 9%. Also with the measures in this Tax Plan, the purchasing power gap between pensioners and workers is increasing again. Does the cabinet call it balanced that a couple of two-earned children with no double-mode income saw their purchasing power increase by 7% in the period 2008 to 2015, while a retired couple with only AOW, and therefore no supplementary pension, saw purchasing power increase by only 1% in the same period? Can the Secretary of State go into this in detail again? This cabinet can continue to hide behind average and median purchasing power. This year, the purchasing power picture for older people may be somewhat uplifted with the fast brush, but it is not enough for a balanced purchasing power development for this group. It's not even going that way. The cabinet can also continue to hide behind the argument that virtually nothing can be done in the short term to prevent pension reductions and, above all, that the purchasing power of pensioners is lagging behind. But let me just say this about all this: the first citizen with a median wallet has yet to be born. People don't let themselves be fooled, not even the pensioners who are back at zero or below in 2017. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er bijna 700.000.]] They know very well what to do in 120 days' time. I'm here to talk about the old-age discount. Contrary to, for example, the situation with the employment discount, the elderly may experience a net income drop of €1.221 if they are unlucky with only €1 difference in annual income. The transition from the high old-age discount to the lower old-age discount of €71 is too abrupt. These are often people with a modest supplementary pension who are already suffering considerable income losses and have suffered from the pension reduction and the lack of a pension index. 50PLUS aims to provide some response to this group of pensioners by allowing, as with the employment discount, a gradual linear reduction of the elderly discount to an income of €50,000. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. The coverage is found in a limited reduction of the maximum working discount by about 1.25%, or €39. This reduces the employment discount, which has been increased by 53% since 2014, to a very small extent. 50PLUS regrets, like Mr Omtzigt, that the tax deduction of training expenditure is disappearing. A universally accessible, non-discriminatory regime is exchanged for a more selective subsidy scheme, with considerable savings. That arrangement still needs to be worked out. It is also a good thing that more time is now being taken for this. We believe that the proposed austerity and conditional subsidy scheme are at odds with the objective of lifelong learning for all. This objective would mainly be served by an individual "lifelong learning" budget. A recent study commissioned by the Education Council is also asking for this. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I come to the abolition of the tax deduction of monuments. In this case too, 50PLUS thinks it wise, like Mr Van Weyenberg, to take more time to come to a proper settlement. We understand the desire to make the scheme efficient and more efficient, but not to cut back on small historical heritage, which may particularly affect small individuals. Can the Secretary of State assure us that this is not going to happen? Can he confirm that there will be an arrangement which will not be less accessible and, above all, not more complex? The letter from the Minister of Education has not been able to take away our concern about this. I come to a point of principle that is linked to the extended grant exemption for 2017. We naturally welcome the exemption in itself, but the age limit, which is 18 to 40 years, is arbitrary and patronizing. Does life end at 40? This is pure age discrimination, especially justified by budgetary arguments. Can children over 40 years of age be more and more people who are not having similar wishes, problems and need financial support? Would a slightly lower increased grant exemption, for example €75,000, without age limit and with freedom of use not be much fairer and macroeconomically more effective? I come to the transitional right on grant exemption. 50PLUS hereby rejects any grocery mentality. The Secretary of State says that the transitional right is now clear and reasonable. However, fiscalists and tax consultants find transitional law complex and say that it can lead to unreasonable and unfair outcomes. It can't be both true. 50PLUS believes that a not fully completed extended donation under the previous regime should be able to be completed under the current regime. We understand from the note following the report that this is not the case. It's about 150,000 people for 2013 and 2014. To sum up, the right of transition must be generous, fair, clear and, above all, not too complex. Is the Secretary of State prepared, as proposed by the VVD Group, to sit down again with organisations like the NOB? Charge on actual achieved returns seems to finally come within reach. Although the regime that enters next year approaches the actual return achieved better, it is certainly more complex and less transparent for taxpayers. Our question is still: is it wise, in the run-up to the desired change in the tax on actually achieved returns, to put forward a complicated temporary proposal with three different fictitious yield groups? The use of the five-year loan will improve current low interest rates, but in our view it is still insufficient. Of course, that's nice for the treasury, but less nice for the saver. Is it not better to reduce the existing flat-rate return considerably and then to introduce the desired system at once? 50PLUS believes that at least by 2017 a fairer system for updating returns should be introduced. This is a system that includes a moving average over a shorter period, for example two years. This approach seems ultimately less vulnerable to European law. We would like to receive an opinion from the Secretary of State on this. We also ask the Secretary of State to go into all the proposals in detail, including those from tax practice, for a temporary simple adjustment of the box 3 system prior to the final system change of box 3. With regard to the backpay, the allowance for too little or not paid wages to civil servants and military personnel during the war years in the Dutch East Indies, I would like to join my colleagues Bashir and Omtzigt. I'd like to hand a letter from the KBO-PCOB on this subject to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u109	This piece is being copied. The Secretary of State will be handed it over now, but it will also be distributed among the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, a cry of heart. Some time ago, it was found that the control capacity of the Tax Administration and the FIOD is relatively limited. I'm gonna remind Abvakabo's black book. In other words, it denounced the fact that the Tax Administration should drop billions of tax revenues simply because of a lack of control and detection capacity. Has this situation improved? How much is actually being checked, for example in the case of ordinary companies and private individuals? What's the actual image? For example, could the excessive marginal tax burden not simply be reduced if the tax authority receives what it is legally entitled to? 50PLUS pleads for extra effort here. The euro that is being spent on this is almost certainly a double and cross-revenue. As regards the VAT for pension funds, I agree with Mr Omtzigt. I also endorse Mrs Schouten's comment on debts in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u111	Finally, this evening I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf, on behalf of the SGP Group, for his contribution from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u112	Madam President, I believe that we have never finished the plenary debate on a first-term tax plan this early. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Schouten. She said it so beautifully: I let him go. That's always nice and good. I would like to thank her very much for having wanted to solve an agenda problem for me and for having done it in an excellent way. I wasn't wondering at all: Oh, is that on my behalf? So thank you for that. I thank the Secretary of State for the Tax Plan. It's pretty important that it's there. I would also like to thank the officials for their great commitment. There's always been a lot of discussion about the IRS, especially in recent years. Officials may also wonder whether they are doing well. Yeah, luckily, a lot of good is happening. Madam President, I would like you to pass that on to the officials, including the Secretary of State. My first point is the one-earner. No one's gonna be surprised. I am not going to make a whole speech about this, because several colleagues have already put forward the calculation examples of €22,000 to €32,000. You get €10,000 gross and you're left with €355. That's an average tax rate of 96.5%. If you look at the marginal rates, it's in a range of between 87% and 141% of taxes. That's part one. This refers to breadwinners. This is not only about the single earner, but also about the two earner who is breadwinner. Part two is the big gap. In recent years, and also in the course of this discussion, we have exchanged all possible figures on this subject. I understand that the starting points are different, namely from the family, as we want, or individualistic. I understand that reasoning, but I do not want you to automatically arrive at a difference in tax burden of between €8,000 and €10,000 on an equal income. Then as far as I'm concerned, every rationality is lost. Then you're not talking about a legitimate tax difference anymore, but you're talking about the gap, as it's called. The good thing is that there have been some of us who have put these things forward in Parliament. Sometimes you wondered if you should go through with that. It has indeed supported me to think: if you believe in it, go on with it. This applies to a number of other issues which concern our party, but this also applies to practical matters of this kind. You're lucky to see the support increase. I look at the SP, the CDA, the Christian Union, who has always done that from home, and 50PLUS. In the First Chamber there was even an absolute majority in favour of Mr Schalk I and Mr II's motions. The Secretary of State is getting beat up a little bit. My only real question to the Secretary of State is this. We took a step last year. I see the Christian Union coming up with a nice proposal again. Where are the Secretary of State's proposals? I cannot imagine, from the point of view of the Secretary of State, looking at his liberal background, accepting that gap and accepting that marginal rates are so high. That can't be true. I welcome the statement by the Secretary of State on the Schalk motion that there will be an investigation. SZW is going to do that, because it has mainly to do with the supplement atmosphere. I know that trick too. Guys, why don't you set up a commission and do another investigation, and before you know it, it's March next year. With the many parties who consider this point important, this will be fascinating negotiations. Then something should finally happen. That's gonna be pretty spicy, but it would please the cabinet to take a serious step of its own. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Does he want to send that investigation that has been promised in connection with the Schalk motion for a resolution on the SZW budget to the Chamber so that we can keep going in that process? Technically, it's not that complicated, but it's mainly political will to choose. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of change over monuments and training deductions, and I am not going to repeat that. Their surprise is my surprise, even when you look at the content. I have already said in interrupting that I own a national monument. Fortunately, that has been completely renovated, but I did notice how important this arrangement is to purchase such a monument at all. If the law were to be as proposed by the cabinet, I would not have purchased that monument. When I see what extra costs I have in terms of refurbishing an ordinary house, think of applying for permits, in a whole licensing process, it's huge what you've lost extra. I'm fine with looking at a better arrangement and preventing abuse. The fact that you are going to a subsidy scheme is fine as far as I am concerned, because it's a little weird that you benefit from higher tax rates. It's fine to put that right, but don't take out those big renovations, because that's a lot of maintenance, and that's exactly the point where monuments fall down, yes or no. I therefore agree with the questions put by Mrs Schouten, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg on the special letter from OCW. I am therefore starting to get hungry for the motion of D66, I must say, but I will first listen to the Secretary of State. It is a bit strange that chemical plant protection products with a patent should be allowed in the innovation box. Agriculture encourages much more organic plant protection products, because that is better for everyone. Hence the amendment to create a title in the law. I believe that this is in line with all current international laws and agreements, including agreements with the OECD. Does the Secretary of State want to be positive about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u113	I saw Mr Groot hesitate, but he still wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u114	I also put my question to the Secretary of State at the same time. It seems a sympathetic amendment, but I wonder to what extent it opens the door to further expansion of the innovation box. Has Mr Dijkgraaf thought about this? Isn't this a camel's nose, as it's called in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u115	That's what it's called in good Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u116	Mr Groot means a "camelnose." Of course, we've been thinking about that. We're actually making sure you're under the law and under the normal criteria. So when you're working on innovation, you also have a patent on it. If you want something else, it should be allowed internationally. That was agreed by the OECD. This also applies, for example, to this issue. As you put it very explicitly in the law, plant protection products are included, but this does not apply, for example, to detergents. Those words are a bit alike, but they can't legally bring those two together. In this sense, it is therefore legally closed, but I would like to hear the opinion of the Secretary of State. I come to the waste tax and the export tax. I once tabled an amendment with others. That did not go well in the work, so I am pleased with the Aukje de Vries/Great amendment in part No. 26. We will also support that amendment in order to ensure that this waste tax is properly reversed. In the meantime, does the Secretary of State have a view on the leaking abroad? We had a very interesting discussion about this once. We were concerned that there is a national tax, but no export tax. That stuff can be transported cheaper abroad, but we don't really want that. Isn't that a solution in sight? There is a fine amendment tabled by my colleagues Omtzigt and Schouten on the company succession scheme. We will support that amendment. Finally, I would like to comment on the VAT exemption for agriculture. I intend to go back to the budgetary treatment of the Agriculture section. The Secretary of State won't mind. I have one question about it now. I understand that this exemption is only in the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and not in the Tax Plan. In the legal sense, therefore, it is really nothing more than a policy idea. It is the VAT exemption that is being abolished. This is simply a austerity measure, a new increase in the burden on agriculture, which is already very difficult and difficult. We are against it. Is my statement that, in the course of dealing with the Tax Plan, we do not have to do anything? Will I then not be heard from the cabinet in the course of the EZ budget debate: should you have done so when dealing with the Tax Plan? Is my statement that we can arrange this with a motion for a resolution in the budgetary procedure of the Agriculture section? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u117	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow, the Chamber will continue its examination of the Tax Plan and will listen to the answers of the Secretary of State for Finance, whom I would like to thank for his presence. It is said in the Chamber that the Secretary of State can answer now, but we will continue tomorrow. The chairman shall decide. I would like to thank Members very much for all their contributions to this evening's proceedings, and I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his officials for their presence.
