ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u1	We're due for the first term of office. Speaking time is four minutes per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Following the Wijffels Committee, the Van Doorn Committee and the Alders Committee and the current Rosenthal Committee and the Veerman Committee and various implementation agendas on the shelf, a new committee will be set up. My first question is therefore: what is the usefulness and necessity of this committee in addition to the committees that have already been or have been present? How does this relate to the other committee still in progress, the Rosenthal Committee? In addition, the letter of inquiry is unclear about the assignment. It is unclear because we are talking first about dairy farming and pig farming and then about the future of livestock farming. The commission then refers to 'a further sustainability of intensive livestock farming'. We read in the same passage that "this further sustainability should lead to a better social embedding of intensive livestock farming." That brings me to a second question. Which sector or sectors are being examined? The reactions of the livestock sector, as well as those of nature and environmental organisations, were not mild about the setting up of this committee. LTO considered the setting-up of this Nipples Committee superfluous. Nature & Environment sighed: another commission! The NVV, the Dutch Association of Varkenhouwers, is surprised and feels that they are being discussed but not with them. The main key words in the report will, in my opinion, be 'a sustainable agriculture' and 'consumers are an important factor, as is cooperation in the chain'. It may also say that there is no escape from scaling up, that much has already happened in the area of animal welfare, that there is support for our farmers in society and that a great effort must be made to improve the level of deterioration and higher prices. That's all well-known. It is therefore clear that the CDA sees nothing in this committee and its mission. We will table a motion on this in the second term. We'd like to propose something else. The starting point of the CDA is: connect from the bottom. Last June I was able to speak together with D66 and the Party for Animals, with the support of GroenLinks, in a special procedure with the initiators of the pamphlet For agriculture later. This pamphlet was a creation of the CDJA, PINK!, The Young Democrats, DWARS, Youth Food Movement Brabant and the Brabants Agricultural Youth Contact. It was also about the Brabant situation. With the words of the Dalai Lama "When you talk, you only repeat what you already know. But if you listen, you might learn something new in mind" they would have gotten into conversation with each other. They indicated that the challenge was great, but that they also found that they were more and more in agreement with each other than they expected. The above mentioned pamphlet seems to be a good starting point for a possible continuation. The CDA therefore proposes to ask the various political youth organisations together with the Dutch Agricultural Youth Contact (Najk) and the Youth Food Movement to further develop their first pamphlet and to come up with a number of concrete, detailed proposals. They must be proposals which can also be supported in agriculture and horticulture and which are really applicable in the Netherlands. I realize very well that this is a challenge, but I think it is a beautiful one. My third question to the Secretary of State is: what does he think of our idea of asking the various political youth organisations together with the Najk and the Youth Food Movement to take on this challenge? I have informally surveyed several colleagues on this issue. I have received very positive messages from several quarters, including from colleagues who are unable to speak here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u3	I share Mr Geurts' opinion on the Nipples Committee. Indeed, there is no question of a balanced representation. But Mr Geurts is only quoting the sector and LTO. I share the idea that they should be involved, but shouldn't the veterinary sector also be represented, for example the Royal Dutch Society of Veterinary Medicine? After all, those are the people who really know animals. They have not only studied for at least eight years; they are also experts in animal health and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u4	I understand the particular attention that Mr Graus has to the vets. I share a lot of those things with him, but I have just tried to point out that it is completely unclear to me what the mission of the Nipples Committee is. It is not at all the CDA's commitment this afternoon to extend this committee to parties or otherwise, or to give it another assignment. As far as the CDA is concerned, this committee can just stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u5	The CDA will not be against it either, I assume, if it is well represented, that a committee might give some advice on the future of livestock farming. I would have liked Mr Geurts to answer the question whether he agrees that the veterinary sector should therefore be represented by the veterinarians, the people who really know about animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u6	There have already been so many committees and there are so many plans on the table. The coalition agreement refers to the Van Doorn Committee. There are still a lot of open, ongoing cases. I sincerely wonder what a new committee will add, but I am sympathetic to Mr Graus. If there were to be another committee at some point, with a clear mandate, which includes a task for veterinarians, I would be sympathetic to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u7	I have a brief question for Mr Geurts. I hear he's very critical of the newly established committee. I will ask a number of questions about this later. At the same time, however, I hear Mr Geurts launching a new plan. He didn't call it a "committee" in so many words. That was very wise, I would say, but it is actually a committee. Does Mr Geurts agree with me that the sector and the representatives mentioned by Mr Geurts can simply take matters into their own hands and work out that pamphlet without the request coming from the government or from politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mrs Lodders has taken it very well that I do not like the Nipples Committee at all. In the interrupting debate with Mr Graus, I indicated that the mandate was unclear. I thought, "Let me take a completely different case here this afternoon." Last year I received these young people in the special procedure and I was quite impressed by them. That's what I said back then. So it's not in place either. They have made a clear pamphlet. A number of points can be drawn from this. The group can then just give hands and feet to that. That's my plan for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mrs. Lodders, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u10	That is a wonderful initiative by this group of people, but I am looking for the added value of the idea that this request should come from either the political or the cabinet. I do not really hear that added value in Mr Geurts' explanatory statement. I challenge these people as a group, as they are now represented and with the pamphlet they have set up, to sit down with a number of other players in the sector, perhaps not just with people from the primary sector, but from the whole chain. They can then set their own agenda with items that are good for agriculture in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u11	It is of course a good thing that the various organisations are dealing with the question of what should be included in the electoral programmes of the various political parties. These organisations are also free to do so, and I think that is happening at the moment. If the sector itself needs to do a number of things, that is fine, but in the special procedure, a number of parties have promised to follow up on this at some point. I found the right time for that today. If I had just made a speech in which I had tried to get the Nipples Committee even further down, Mrs Lodders would have come to the Interrupt Microphone on behalf of the VVD Group to ask what would be my alternative. That happens to me sometimes. I am trying to answer that and that is not understood. Now I come up with an alternative and Mrs Lodder asks: why do you come up with an alternative? I'm sorry to hear that. Mrs Lodders should therefore clarify to me in her term exactly what she expects from the various colleagues on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr Geurts, did you come to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u13	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mr Wassenberg, on behalf of the Animal Party, has the floor, bearing in mind the Dalai Lama's motto, because that is also something for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. Since 1992, a whole series of committees have looked at the bio-industry. Those committees have separated a steady stream of reports. I quote from the report of the Committee of Inquiry led by Neelie Smit-Kroes in 1992 on the operation of the Ministry of Agriculture, as it was called at the time. This committee, in its own words, "must conclude that on these particular issues"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Wijffels Committee stated in 2001: "The intensive livestock sector needs to be radically changed. Animals need to be given more room for natural behavior, such as wandering around outside. The transport of live animals should be restricted and livestock breeding should not focus solely on increasing productivity. Dealing with animals is not what we want, and the environment is overburdened. Pigs must root, chickens must scramble, and the cow must go into the pasture." Minister Brinkhorst van Landbouw replied on behalf of the cabinet as follows: "This report is being carried out. Not to push a sector into the ground, but to make sure that we can be proud of livestock farming again." The Planning Office for the Environment wrote in 2010: "However, many animal welfare problems remain. Many animals are severely restricted in their natural behaviour. The transport of pigs over long distances has not decreased. The import of meat calves and the accompanying transport even increased sharply." In 2012, the Van Dijk Evaluation Committee wrote about the approach to Q fever: "The investigation of the suspected source of infection of Q fever has been hampered for a long time by the appeal to the privacy of dairy goat farmers. This has made it difficult to locate the infected farms exactly. The argument of corporate privacy cannot dominate in a proportionate approach to a public health problem and certainly not in an approach based on the precautionary principle." The General Court wrote in 2013 in its follow-up study on the sustainability of livestock farming: "The policy to reduce ammonia emissions and thereby the nitrogen impact of livestock farming does not adequately protect biodiversity in the Netherlands. In particular, the welfare rules are not sufficiently complied with in the case of pigs and chickens. (...) In 2011, more than 50% of chicken farmers and more than 30% of pig farmers broke animal welfare rules." For many years, therefore, committees have been discussing the future of the livestock industry. These committees state without exception that the intensification and size of livestock farming have gone out of control. All committees conclude that the bio-industry must be stopped, but in practice the bio-industry is only becoming larger and more industrial. We have long known what to do; we do not need a new committee to do so. Does the Secretary of State expect this committee to report differently from all previous committees? There must be an end to the bio-industry and to the extent to which we in the West consume meat and dairy. This is the only way farmers will regain economic opportunities. Only in this way can animals exercise their natural behavior. Only in this way can we reduce the enormous pressure that the breeding of animals for meat, milk and eggs places on nature. Only in this way can we remain within the capacity of the earth and combat climate change. Only in this way can we ensure that future outbreaks of animal diseases do not harm public health and the lives of thousands of healthy animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u16	This is a rather selective representation of all those reports. I have also read a lot of these recently; there are other texts in them. So I'm gonna leave this for the Party for the Animals. I have put forward the idea of linking political youth organisations from the bottom up as a follow-up to the pamphlet. What does Mr Wassenberg think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u17	The Youth Organization of the Party for Animals has withdrawn from the pamphlet and has not signed it. The organisation withdrew in spring 2015. So I do not support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u18	Does the Party for Animals want to sit on an island so badly that it does not want to seek connection in any way? We know the polder model in the Netherlands. Is the position of the parent party so important that the youth organisation is not allowed to participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u19	It's very clear. The position of the Animal Party, as well as of all the committees I have quoted, is that the livestock sector has gone out of control, that the scale has gone out of control and that we must move towards fewer animals and a more extensive way of livestock farming. If there is a committee to look at how we can give hands and feet to that, the Party for Animals will support it. But again in some context talking about how we can proceed with this system in this way, does not support the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u20	I share this with Mr Wassenberg. That is why my group always supports the motions relating to moratoria on mega-stables, the development of the bio-industry and so on. However, I cannot go along with it if the Animal Party asks the Secretary of State of only one country to put an end to the bio-industry. This has to do with supply and demand worldwide, and that is not possible, but I share Mr Wassenberg's view. What is to be done in concrete terms? The bio-industry exists. I will come up with a proposal to include veterinarians and representatives of the sector in the committee. Perhaps we should go to those smaller family and family businesses that he and I advocate, and such a committee could help. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u21	This committee will look mainly at economic perspectives and sustainability, but all based on the current system. That system doesn't want to sustain the Party for Animals. We and all the previous committees have said that this system must be brought down and that it does not have the future. There is no point in setting up a committee to look at how to proceed from this system. You can then add a number of veterinarians, but that also makes no sense because the committee is not in the right place there. A committee should be set up to deal with the question of how it is to be brought to an end. That's something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u22	That is what I wanted to hear from Mr Wassenberg. Mr Geurts will not support the Nipples Committee, I expect. Mr Wassenberg will not do that either, and neither will I, but we must ensure that something comes up that does matter. We can say no to everything, but then we must also come up with a solution. I will propose that another balanced committee be set up in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u23	If the committee's mission is to look at how the livestock industry can be phased out, we can look at that further. But if that committee is based on the existing system and improves a few millimeters of it, it makes very little sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr Graus, we are about to listen to your proposal. I call Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr. Chairman. There is a growing debate in society about the appointment of Commissioners and the transparency of these appointments, whether they be former politicians or not. I don't want any committee members who have been appointed to start with a one-zero backlog. I therefore have a few questions about the procedure and transparency. How were the committee members selected? Did that happen through an ad or did they pick up the phone and call a few people? What are the substantive requirements? I have here one letter with one and a half lines of text. I don't read anything about that. So first of all, I want to know how transparent the procedure has been. It is about the future of livestock farming, but there is not a single farmer among them. I understand that the Secretary of State cannot put all kinds of livestock farmers in a committee, because it will be very large, but he could at least approach the chairman of ZLTO or the chairman of NajK. I don't see either of them. I don't see any young people in that at all. Mr Geurts spoke about this. Finally, young people have the future and they want it to be done right. I wonder why that has not been taken into account in this committee. This is particularly true if, when the report is on our table, we all note that the composition is not balanced, but ultimately we want to have support for the report. The second thing that I do not see, but which is very important, is the framework conditions. I do not read about the conditions that have been set. Whether you are a small farmer or a large farmer, whether you want to grow or not: for D66 it is very important that it all happens environmentally neutrally, that there is balance, that ecologically produced and that the soil is not exhausted. D66 believes it is important that energy, water and raw materials that are finite are handled in a balanced and innovative way and that they are used to a great extent. What framework conditions have been laid down for this committee? For example, I would like to give the consumer a very important role in this. The better the consumer can make a choice, the better the quality of the label that can be placed by the Netherlands anywhere in the world. Then the farmer also makes a lot of money from that. I would also like, for example, to give the competition rules as a prerequisite. What does it mean, for example, if you want to produce socially sustainable products? Can this be taken into account in the competition rules? Is that also mentioned as a prerequisite? I am also thinking of the common agricultural subsidies. I think it is very important that the money 1. is spent transparently and 2. is mainly spent for sustainability and innovation. Is that also given as a prerequisite? I wouldn't want French farmers to get extra money every time they go out on the streets in the summer. If my kid's been naughty and yelling for an extra cookie, I'm not saying, "Please, here's another one." It is therefore important that these conditions are clear. However, I do not see them. The fragmented regulation also ensures that farmers no longer see the forest through the trees. Has this aspect also been given as a prerequisite? Will that be watched, too? In short, I want to know exactly what this committee is going to investigate and under what conditions it will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u26	To the second, Mrs. Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday there was a nice headline in Het Financieele Dagblad: "FrieslandCampina is increasing pace of investment." The dairy processor, to which 13,500 dairy farms supply their milk, invests 900 million a year in improving production facilities and acquisitions. That is a good message, which shows that Dutch livestock farming, even in difficult times on the market, is able to deliver high quality products. In addition, with regard to production and processing, it has an eye for animal welfare and environmental requirements. Let us take as an example the global demand for our baby milk powder; a segment FrieslandCampina is big in. But other dairy and meat products are also in demand. The Dutch livestock industry is a sector to be proud of. The Dutch livestock sector is important for the BV Nederland. In addition to the many farmers that our country is rich, many people find jobs in livestock farming, logistics, processing, mechanization and so on. The Dutch livestock industry is world leader in innovation. The VVD sees innovation in particular as the future strength of livestock farming. The Secretary of State has set up a committee to examine the future of livestock farming. I have a number of doubts about this. Why did the Secretary of State choose a committee composition, in which the sector is not represented? How can you talk about the future of a sector when it is not represented? I'm not starting my story with FrieslandCampina's plans for nothing. But there are more beautiful companies that have invested heavily in the past period to prepare for the future. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider to what extent the sector can join this committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u28	Is this also the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u29	No, Mr. Chairman, but I'm halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u30	There are two questions. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u31	Mrs Lodders said that she does not see the balance coming back to committee, especially with regard to cattle farmers. That is a very important point. Another important point is transparency. How did the procedure go? What conditions have been set? Doesn't Mrs Lodder think that's very important? Shouldn't that be taken too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u32	The Secretary of State is about setting up a committee and makes his own considerations. You asked the question and I am going to listen with interest to the answer to it. I do not think that the Chamber should discuss the composition and manner in which each committee is set up. I think that is the responsibility of the govern ment. We supported this debate because the sector is not represented, while it is about the future of the sector. That's the question I wanted to ask, and I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u33	I find Mrs Lodder's answer strange, because she began her speech precisely with the composition of the committee. It is either the minister's job, and then she should not ask any questions about it, or she will ask those questions, but then it is also right that she should answer my questions. I have not heard an answer to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u34	What I can say about it, I just said. The Secretary of State, or any other member of the board, deals with the composition of a committee. We received a letter informing the Chamber that a committee had been set up. The letter was not quite clear; I will come back to that in my future. But you asked the question about transparency and I am going to listen with interest to the answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mrs. Koşer Kaya, the interruptions go in two. Your colleague has given the answer she wanted to give, and we cannot push it further, if necessary, according to a neutral chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u36	My first point is that Mrs Lodders is failing the Chamber. We have the highest office here. For example, a Secretary of State can never send the Chamber home, but we can send a Secretary of State home. We're above everything and we're in charge of everything. If we do not agree with the committee, we can find something. The same goes for Mrs Lodders. Mrs. Lodders does that a lot. She is sometimes also a street fighter against rulers. So I think it's a little hypocritical to say now that it's only the Secretary of State who decides. We really shouldn't do that. I'm missing something in the VVD's speech and I don't understand. Mrs. Lodders is a farmer's daughter herself. This is about the future of livestock farming. The word "vee" means: animals. And whether you believe in evolution or in the creation story, animals were there before humans. It is also primarily about animals and farmers. They're both not represented. Mrs Lodder shares the view of farmers, but she does not share the view that the people who are competent about animals should be represented. It's about living creatures who have more feelings than we all do together. I think it's sad. Is it possible for Mrs Lodders to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u37	I have tried to keep my text somewhat limited and have therefore put my focus on the representation of the sector. For me, this sector is very broad: from the primary producer to far in the chain. It is not for nothing that I have also indicated that the people working in the sector not only find a job in the primary companies; it is also about the subsequent steps. For me, therefore, 'the sector' is a broad concept. This includes the representation to which Mr Graus refers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u38	So is the veterinary one. In any case, thank you for this commitment, but then I have another question. I think Mrs. Lodders is not from a megasthal, but from an honest family business. Mrs Lodders must therefore also be for small family and family businesses. Does it share the view that a committee should be set up to protect small family and family farms, including animal welfare, animal health and also farm welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u39	I am going to ask a number of questions, so perhaps Mr Graus will come to the interrupting microphone again. I wonder what the purpose of that is. Mr Graus knows me as a representative of the sector who believes that the sector itself should take the lead and set the agenda itself. I think there is too much on the board of the government, on the one hand, because the sector is asking for business and on the other hand because the government itself is doing business. I have often argued in the Chamber that the sector should take up the gauntlet and take care of business itself. The sector is well represented in all kinds of gremia and he can. That was the second part of my story at the same time. I hope I can serve Mr Graus in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u40	I have been listening to Mrs Lodder's story for a while now. It seems like we're talking about something very different. She's lyrical about livestock farming. I have quoted a number of reports from 1992 and then. All these reports from all these committees show that there are too many animals, too many emissions, too much manure, too many and too long animal transports, too much bulk production and so on. Is the VVD completely blind to all these negative aspects of livestock farming? Because that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u41	No, but the VVD also reads many other reports, which present the value of agriculture in general terms and in particular that of livestock farming. Those reports are often overlooked by the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u42	I am now talking about the reports that have appeared on behalf of the various Cabinets. There are indeed several things in it, but in fact the conclusion of all these reports is: something must change and the system must turn upside down. Those are the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u43	No, that is the conclusion of Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals. Of course, I sometimes read a number of recommendations, but if you analyse the various reports, you will see that there is room in this country. It is not for nothing that the Netherlands is the leader in the field of innovation, also in the Dutch livestock sector and the mechanization surrounding it. Mr Wassenberg and my person, and at the same time the Animal Party and the VVD, have different views on this. We're not gonna get together either. Mr. Chairman. What mission has the Secretary of State given to the committee? That is not entirely clear to me. The Secretary of State talks about "the social embedding of livestock farming." I think that is a vague concept. What exactly does the Secretary of State mean and what does he intend to achieve in the committee? I also wonder how the committee relates to other initiatives from the sector itself in order to come up with a future agenda, such as the Rosenthal committee in the pig sector. Is the Nipples Committee going to go through the work of this committee? Why wasn't the outcome of this committee awaited? And what's the committee's timetable? I feel that setting up this committee is a solution to a non-existent problem in The Hague. That is actually a summary of what I have just said. Can the Secretary of State once again define the problem? During the past period, the Dutch livestock industry has been given much to choose from. The market situation is under pressure, and therefore prices. Exports to certain countries have stopped. I think the sector needs peace and quiet. The question is whether the setting up of this committee will provide peace and quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u44	Does Mrs Lodder say that this committee is not necessary at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mrs Koşer Kaya has heard that I have asked a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u46	Now be clear. Just now, Mrs Lodders said that there should also be a farmer on that committee. When I asked through, she couldn't answer that. If it's a hard demand, I'd love to hear it. Now she says, "Is this committee necessary?" My question is therefore justified. Is this committee necessary according to Mrs Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u47	I did answer Mrs Koşer Kaya, but she may not like that answer. The Secretary of State has chosen to set up this committee. Following the letter that was sent, a debate was requested...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u48	I ask for the opinion of Mrs Lodders, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u49	Yes, but Mrs Lodder's speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u50	I hope I can just answer, I say to Mrs Koşer Kaya. Following the letter, a debate was requested. The VVD supported this request, primarily as a first step, because the sector is not represented in this committee. I have asked a number of questions about this. I then analysed and indicated that there is a need for peace at the moment in view of the situation in the market, exports and a number of other matters. I ask the right question whether this committee is going to offer that peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u51	I, like my colleague from D66, remain a little confused about Mrs Lodder's words, but we will get to that in a moment. She started her contribution to dairy farming with praise. I would say that this is also reflected in government policy. It is a question of whether dairy farming is a problem on which a committee should be set up. We have just had the phosphate rights debate; there will be another law on that. So there's already a lot going on. That's one. Two: the Rosenthal Committee runs in pig farming. The results are not yet known. Does the new Nipples committee have to go over that one more time? I have no choice but to take the task of looking at intensive livestock farming. Complete confusion. What is the VVD's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u52	With all due respect, but I have just asked a number of questions, I have mentioned the Rosenthal Committee as an example and asked whether this committee is going to go through the work, and I am going to await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u53	I continue to find it special: the assignment is unclear, a few questions are being asked by the VVD Group, but it seems that this is a toy that this group had to give to a Secretary of State and that a committee is therefore being set up. I would like to know whether the VVD Group is in favour or against this committee. What does she think of the commission of this committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u54	The task is not clear; I have asked a number of questions about it and I am going to await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u55	Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that a sloppy 2.5 billion is spent annually by the Netherlands on the agro-industry, pig farming and dairy farming are in crisis and livestock farming is under fire for a long time because of all kinds of sustainability and animal welfare issues. Pig farmers owe 2.4 billion to Rabobank. 20% have more debt than the value of the company. The farmer gets too low a price for his product to calculate it around and that is because of over-production and a poor bargaining position of the farmer. In dairy farming, driven by the VVD and LTO Netherlands, active malpractice was pursued by first abolishing the milk quota and then implicitly recognising with a forest measures that production restrictions are necessary. Meanwhile, milk prices have fallen and neighbouring countries no longer have production restrictions. So we literally played into the hands of the competition. The Dutch Association of Varkenhouders and LTO Nederland have come to their senses and are now asking for European quoting. The German Agriculture Minister advocates European regulation of milk production. Is the Secretary of State also awake by now and is he prepared to advocate the introduction of pork quota, the reintroduction of the milk quota, or the semi-private production control system of the European Milk Board? At the same time, there is a loud call for the sustainability of livestock farming. Does the Secretary of State recognise that the necessary restructuring in pig farming offers opportunities for sustainability? The province of Brabant is making a furious effort to combat nuisance in livestock-tight areas and to promote the sustainability of the sector. But the hands are tied as long as one does not receive support from the national government. Where is the Brabant Act, which allows provinces to include non-spatial arguments in spatial planning decisions and regulations, such as health and livestock density in overstretched areas? Sustainability is necessary but must be made possible. This can be done through state aid and through good market rules. Market rules should give the farmer a better negotiating position vis-à-vis the supers so that he gets a better price for his product and can invest in sustainability. Therefore, the SP wants purchasing power to also be considered market power. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have the possibilities examined for this purpose? At the time, the SP was critical of the Van Doorn Committee, because it had a nice objective, but did not give up on it and allowed implementation to depend on the goodwill of the free market. With the current course "All meat sustainable by 2020" is not in sight, and it is a good thing that there will be a Nipples Commission to follow up on it. But what does this committee look like? That is a question that is above the market. Is the sector involved, not only LTO Netherlands but also Network Grondig, the Dutch Dairy Farmers Trade Union and the Dutch Dairymen Board? Is the committee also going to involve animal protectors, nature and environmental clubs and local residents? Innovators in the field of animal welfare and sustainability complain about the lack of support for the forerunners in the sector. It is precisely the innovative companies that we need to embrace. However, I do not feel that this is happening effectively or systematically. The comprehensive policy review notes that the use of subsidies is fragmented and that the effectiveness of the policy is not clear and not measurable. Is the Secretary of State prepared to assess the opinion of its predecessors in the field of sustainability by means of a survey? Finally. The trend is to go to fewer farmers and more animals, but we should not go to bulk and megasthals but towards family business and added value. A motion of the SP adopted in the Chamber calls for a change from quantity to quality. I would also like to invite the committee, which will undoubtedly be there, to take this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u56	Mr Van Gerven, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, gave an opinion on the sphere of farmers and farmers' wives, but in the meantime pulled out the carpet underneath them. I am very curious to see how the SP is ever going to interpret this towards this population. My question is more focused on the future. How does the SP see the future? Does it want an extension of this committee or does it not want this committee at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u57	The reason we are having this debate is that there is a great deal of uncertainty about that committee, not only about its usefulness and necessity, but also about its composition and the question of what to investigate. The Secretary of State has already addressed this in his letter. It must be about an economic perspective, sustainability and social support. That deserves a more detailed explanation. I think a committee could do useful work, but everyone should be involved. Mr Geurts' proposal is to involve young people. I'm just gonna get this straight. I think that's excellent. Whoever has the youth has the future. But that needs to be completed. Mr Geurts says that the SP is pulling the carpet away from the farmers. Can he explain that? I do not see the reality of this remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u58	Mr Geurts cannot explain this because he is interrupting and asking the question. I take it from Mr Van Gerven's reaction that he does not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u59	I would very much like to explain, Mr President, but I will follow you. The follow-up question is more: what will this committee add? The debate on phosphate rights is now under way in dairy farming. There's lots of parties in there. We spoke about this recently in the Chamber. As far as intensive livestock farming is concerned, we have the Rosenthal Committee on pig farming. What's the commission gonna do? I hear the VVD spokesperson telling me to give it a rest. This committee really doesn't give you peace! I hear the SP spokesman say we have to help the farmers. This committee really doesn't give you any peace. So I'd like to hear an answer. What is this committee going to do to solve problems that I do not think there are at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u60	I doubt the latter. There are a lot of problems in livestock farming. The sustainability is not secured and earning a decent sandwich is also not secured. It's chaos, so something has to happen. That is a task which, of course, politics has, that is up to Parliament and the Secretary of State, that is obvious. But a committee that goes all over the sector could be useful. If it is set up, it must be clear what that committee intends to do. And the committee must be carried. If Parliament does not see anything, then of course there is a false start. I think that such a committee can really make sense, but then it must be absolutely clear what the intention is and, of course, the committee must act in its entirety. All sections must be involved. That is also a characteristic of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a polder country. We need to involve everyone in this. If we take the starting point that livestock farming deserves a good future, that is to say they can earn a living, that they can operate sustainably and that they also have a basis, including in society where they earn their living and work, then there must be room for such a committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mr. Chairman. To respond to Mr Van Gerven's last remark, there is an approved Graus motion for a better model of income for family and family businesses. I hope the Secretary of State will soon implement that motion. After all, it was supported by the Chamber. So we don't have to talk about that anymore. Many committees supported the Nijpels Committee, including the Van Doorn Committee, which recently considered how to make meat sustainable in 2020. These committees have all been mentioned by Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party. I won't repeat that. The PVV denounces the stacking of shit committees and has no confidence in the Nipples Committee. I personally have nothing against Mr Nijpels. I used to be a big fan of Mr. Nijpels when I was a kid. I even had a poster of his. "Edje Raketje," his name was. And now it's "Edje with the umpteenth cap." 'Cause he's got a lot of hats on. So he goes from "Edje Raketje" to "Edje with the umpteenth cap," but he continues to be one of my youth idols. I have nothing against him personally, but of course he has no knowledge of animals or livestock farming. We just have to be honest about that. I dare say that to his face. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. Moreover, no member of the committee has earned his spurs in livestock farming or in the veterinary world. The farmers must be represented. It's about cattle, about animals that were there before humans, whether we believe in evolution or in the creation story. The farmers are the keepers of the cattle. Animals can't represent themselves. The PVV and Mr Wassenberg's party are trying to represent them, but we have the best veterinarians in the world to be represented. Then we are talking about an expert veterinarian, because you have specialists in the field of cows and specialists in the field of pigs. After all, we are talking about animals with a complex nervous system, which feel more than we all do together. They're sensitive animals who can experience pain and stress. Certain groups must be represented, even when it comes to farm welfare. The farmers have something to say about that. I saw that the dieron-friendly WUR is represented. The WUR is often wrong in the investigations. This will also be evident in the phosphates tests. There's also a Rabobank bobo in there. The only man with authority in the committee is Mr Hans Hoogeveen. I'm very fond of that man, but he doesn't have a veterinary background. He is also not an expert in animal husbandry. In addition, we are missing the reduction of the bio-industry, as Mr Wassenberg pointed out. We would like to see the phasing out of the bio-industry being discussed, just not in the way the Animal Party wants it to be. That is why I am not guaranteeing that I will support a motion on this matter immediately. We can support moves to prevent mega-stables and prevent expansion, but the decline of the bio-industrie is related to global supply and demand. We are in favour of small family and family businesses. There should be a committee for that. I would like to address that to the Chamber at a procedural meeting. We cannot do that in plenary. Many experts have indicated how this should be done. I see that Mr Wassenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u62	Mr Graus rightly speaks about the global scale, but he must also know that the Netherlands exports about 70% of production. The Netherlands is a small country with a huge herd. The bulk products are exported. If you put an end to that, you can, without affecting the Dutch consumer, ensure that animals are kept in a more animal-friendly way. So you have to stop exporting infinitely abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u63	I have taken specific actions, for example on exports and imports of halal products. At that time, Mr Wassenberg was not a Member of Parliament. Halal products are the most dieron-friendly products, although it seems that they are currently the most animal-friendly products, if you can believe the media. Halal products, however, are the most dieron-friendly products. I have supported more than 90% of the PvdD's motions on this issue. The same applies to the motions on long-distance transports. We told you not to want that at all. I myself have made many requests on this point. So Mr Wassenberg cannot say that we have not tried to prevent long-distance transport. However, you cannot say no to everything. For example, when it comes to the carriage of carcasses, we are different from the PvdD. So we can't find each other everywhere, but we can find each other in most cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u64	Let me ask my question in a slightly different way. At the moment, the Netherlands is the largest butcher and milkman in Europe. Does Mr Graus agree with me that if we put an end to this, we will be able to achieve very great success?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u65	From 2006 onwards, we are in favour of phasing out the bio-industry. That is also something Mr Wassenberg can read back in our election programme. In 2006 we talked about a controlled phasing-out. We have continued to include this point in our electoral programmes. If a motion for a moratorium was tabled by anyone, we have always supported it, even though our point may have been different from the wording in the operative part. In order for small family and family businesses to be able to survive, a better earning model is needed at the expense of the retail sector. There's an approved Graus motion on this. In addition, the mega plants can only exist if they export, because it has to be enough for our people. It must also be sufficient to guarantee the welfare of farmers, animal welfare, public health and animal health, because that is what this is about. We're not always exactly on the same page, but at least we have good intentions. Mr Wassenberg knows that too. It is often also about how something is formulated. Something is often put in a recital or in a statement, which means that we can no longer support the motion. Then they're all tweeting: look, the PVV is not animal friendly, because she doesn't support this. They do not explain that we do not give that support because they have included something that the PVV cannot support. Mr Geurts did the same to me the other day, and I do not like it, because then it seems as if I do not want to support his sympathetic motion, which was only because he had put something in it that he knew I would not get through the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u66	Mr Graus, before Mr Geurts reacts to that again and disagrees...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u67	I would like to give him some extra speaking time, Mr President. He's a valued colleague, and I'm giving him those extra minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u68	I understand that, but I would ask you to continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u69	In short, we are against the Nipples Committee and that has nothing to do with the person. I share that with Mr Geurts and with Mr Wassenberg, although they are two opposites, but both have said something very sensible. The welfare and health of animals and farmers must be safeguarded in the future of livestock farming. Those people must be represented at least on such a committee, and that should not be the way it is now. In addition, I would like to leave it at that. I will possibly table a motion on this in the second term. I would also like to ask, apart from the Graus motion on a better income model, whether the Secretary of State is working on the transposition of my adopted motion which shows that European Union regulations are often unworkable and unworkable for our farmers, growers and fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u70	Thank you, Mr Graus. While Mr Van Dekken is going to speak on behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to say that this is, of course, about the committee and its staffing, but that it is also the case that the people who sit on that committee are not here and cannot defend themselves. That has been going well so far, but I just wanted to point out that we need to talk about this with some caution. It went well, Mr Graus, I do not call you on that. More generally, I think it is a good thing that we are aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. I do not think you need to worry about this when it comes to the contribution of the Labour Party. The Labour Party is of the opinion that unbridled growth of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands can no longer be achieved. The livestock sector is also under social pressure. There are serious concerns about animal welfare, about risks to public health, about local nuisance and the living environment. Don't forget the Q-fever problem, food fraud and the use of antibiotics. After many years of political and social debate, it is clear that there are limits to livestock farming, especially in livestock-proof areas. The PvdA is therefore pleased that this Secretary of State shares our view and is working hard to make this livestock farming more sustainable. This is necessary for public support. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is keen to continue to make it sustainable, environmentally, socially and economically. For this, a committee has been set up with fresh progressive people and probably also ditto views. The PvdA Group welcomes this, but also has a few questions and comments on it. Can the Secretary of State give us a little more insight into exactly what that committee is doing? There is talk as if the committee has only just been set up, but the committee has been working for a long time. We are very curious about how things are going, what steps the committee is taking, who it is talking to and what we can expect. In short, is the committee on schedule? Of course, we are also pleased with the most ambitious deadline of this summer, but I would like to hear whether that is really going to work and what actions can be taken to actually meet that deadline. There is an enormous need in this Chamber for a firm approach to the future of intensive livestock farming. We would like this Secretary of State to prevent good initiatives arising from this committee from being applicable in practice. The example of this is the Chicken of Tomorrow. In that sense, I would like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at the role of the ACM in this regard. Can we count on actions aimed at a healthy and sustainable future for humans and animals? Finally, my colleague, Mr Van Gerven, has already said that I would like to say that this is another part of my contribution, and of course we are very curious about the state of play with regard to the Brabant Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u72	I am very curious whether the PvdA Group is clear on what this committee is actually doing. I just heard about intensive livestock farming. Is the intensive livestock farming being investigated now? So that's pig farming, in spoken language. Or is there anything else being investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u73	We had the Van Doorn Committee, which talked about sustainable meat. Mr Geurts only talks about the pig sector. I think it's also about the chicken sector and the cows. It will, I think, have to be about the total of intensive livestock farming. The question is where the sustainability impact can actually take place. Surely Mr Geurts agrees with me that, in the north of Brabant, for example, we have serious problems with intensive livestock farming? There's been a nuisance in all kinds of ways. There are problems with zoonoses and they have also played. I can mention the whole list, but I did not want to be so gloomy today because I am so happy with an unconventional committee. As far as I am concerned, the committee is also talking to youth organisations to see how we can actually sustain this sustainable future. I will also call on my own Young Socialists in the PvdA to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u74	I understand from the President this afternoon that I cannot respond to questions. I can't wait to do that, but I won't. I ask my question again: what is this committee actually going to investigate? The head talks about dairy farming and intensive livestock farming, and the mandate talks about intensive livestock farming. It's completely unclear to me. It is unclear to several colleagues, I see. The VVD-fraction couldn't really bake any of it either. What is this committee really investigating? The phosphate rights debate is taking place in dairy farming. The Rosenthal Committee is working on pig farming. What does this committee add in the eyes of the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u75	I can do that in one sentence: the committee, like the Secretary of State, wants to work hard to make the livestock sector more sustainable, ecologically but also economically, socially and socially, in order to create support for the intensive livestock sector. I think that's the point. I am very curious about the report we will probably receive before the summer recess. In fact, we would very much appreciate it if it would come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u76	I wonder what many farmer- and animal-friendly people who were once in the PvdA would think and think of this. I've been with those people in the room. Mr Van Dekken always pretended to be an animal friend. He usually does so by not supporting motions tabled by the PVV. If the motion is adopted, he will copy it and file it a few months later, and show it in the press that he is an animal friend. But that motion had to be carried out by the Secretary of State. There is no representation of farmers or from the veterinary world, while it is about animals. I find that incomprehensible. If Mr Van Dekken is an animal friend, he should at least ensure that he is in favour of this committee, that there are specialised veterinarians and that there is a good representation of farmers. I can't believe he's just gonna let this go. That's impossible, isn't it? Where's the old PvdA? The PvdA is virtually on eight seats in the polls. Mr Van Dekken has the opportunity to take something back. I would say to him: show yourself from your good side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u77	Your question is clear, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u78	I didn't really think the question was clear at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mr Graus asked about the representation of the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u80	I have understood the question by now. He wondered why the sector, farmers and so on were not represented. Come on, Mr Graus, this committee is going to do a great deal of work. She is definitely talking to the sector, to Land and Tuinbouw Organisation Netherlands and to everything and everyone who plays a role in this. We all shouldn't pretend we didn't. Mr Graus talks about motions that we do not support. It is well known why we do not do so. However, he should not accuse me of sticking, cutting and copying motions from the PVV, because that is a lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u81	That is in fact true, because years ago a motion was passed on the dismantling of the BPRC, the monkey animal centre. Mr Van Dekken has put a little bit more on top of it, although that was a long time ago. The motion had been passed long ago. He goes into the media to show how animal-friendly he is, while there has long been an adopted motion from the Party for Freedom and the Party for Animals. I mean to say that we are also the party for the animals. But the motion was also supported by the Party for Animals. What is the problem of representing farmers and the veterinary sector? What's the problem? I don't understand the problem. It's about livestock farming, isn't it? Cattle: animals. Farming: farmers. That's not so hard, is it? One and one is two. Why would this be difficult? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u82	This is a progressive committee with fresh people and ditto views. I have just explained to Mr Graus that I assume that this committee will undoubtedly talk to everyone in the sector who feels represented and is represented, so from young to old. If that is not the case, then we will hear it from the Secretary of State. But I think I already know his answer on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u83	About two and a half years ago, there was the Van Doorn Commission. When that committee was dissolved, she made the following statement: the market itself is going to ensure sustainable meat. That was the conclusion of that committee. I am now asking the spokesman for the Labour Party whether the market has indeed fulfilled that expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u84	I can be brief and forceful about that; I do not believe that the market has fulfilled that expectation. For example, there are beautiful initiatives, such as the Kip of Tomorrow, smothered in the bud. As a result, the initiative the Pig of Tomorrow suddenly stopped. I do expect the committee we are talking about to come up with strong recommendations and there must be some direction. Otherwise it will all be left to the market itself, while there are very clear views in society and politics on what we want with the sector in the future. We want to move towards an ecological and preserved sector, with, of course, an economic income model behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u85	The SP can agree with the conclusion of the PvdA that the market has not brought the sustainability we want. A certain amount of regulation is therefore needed to put an end to the chaos of this moment that has arisen. This regulation is also necessary in order to offer a future perspective. This regulation must come from the government, because the government is still the counterpower that faces the market. I understand that this should be an important issue. Can Mr Van Dekken say again what the PvdA expects from what he sees as a 'progressive committee'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u86	I do not expect much from the committee itself in terms of legislation and measures. However, Mr Van Gerven himself has just spoken about the current state of affairs of the Brabant Act. We are always having discussions about the animal numbers and public health bill, and we are also asking questions about this to the cabinet. I also refer to the cabinet position on the size of intensive livestock farming and the scale. That is very important and I miss it in this debate. This was the subject of a letter of June 2013. I have that letter right here in front of me. It sets out a number of measures to ensure that, on the one hand, the sector supports it and, on the other hand, it renews itself and, if necessary, invents itself. There are even measures to reduce intensive livestock farming if it gets out of hand as in Brabant and, for example, there are problems with public health. There is therefore a great deal of pride on the agenda, which can also be translated into policies. You can combine that beautifully with hopefully a wonderful advice from the Nipples Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u87	The Secretary of State has indicated that he can reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u88	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for all your questions. To sum up, why do you think that a committee on the future of intensive livestock farming is desirable and why do you think that committee is a good committee? A number of questions have also been asked about the assignment, the way in which the committee does its work and the planning. At the end I will come back to a few additional questions, but I am trying to tackle all the questions together. Everyone who has followed this debate has heard that there are different views in the Chamber on the future of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. That's not new. Anyone who thought that the future was clear before this debate, I heard some Members of Parliament say in the debate: it is now clear that this debate has seen that opinions are still very different. For me, the starting point laid down by the Van Doorn Committee is the following. There is intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. It doesn't just disappear. It will continue to be there in the near future, but it is essential that it undergoes a transition towards more sustainability, more animal welfare and also a stronger economic future. This is essential because social acceptance is crucial. The livestock sector will have to take into account the social demands and the social debate on animal welfare, sustainability, public health and spatial embedding. It is also essential because there is a huge economic challenge. Agriculture, and livestock farming within it, is a very important pillar of our economy. Especially in intensive livestock farming, that pillar is under pressure. In pig farming there is over-production. There is a heavy market situation for many pig farmers. Many pig farmers have insufficient distinctiveness, so many of them are already far above the lips. The second example is the Dutch meat calf farming. In recent years, it has been supported by European subsidies. 92% of the average farm's income came from EU subsidies and not from business operations. So now that subsidies are allocated differently in the European agricultural policy, this sector also has a major problem. The third example is the poultry sector. He's a little ahead of us. There's a big transition going on from the regular chicken, which in recent years has been mostly called ploof chicken, to the Chicken of Tomorrow or the New Standard Chicken, depending on which supermarket you do your shopping at, and the scarlet chicken with one star of the Better Life Brand. In this sector, it appears that the transition is creating new problems again. It is becoming increasingly difficult to meet demand. Anyone looking at all these developments in these three sectors can only conclude that there are big questions about the future of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. My predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, saw that, too. She announced on 7 March last year that there would be a follow-up to the Van Doorn Committee: a new committee would be set up. That may have escaped the Chamber, because at that time it did not lead to discussion, but it said at that time that it was wise to look further. I would like to emphasise this: it is always wise to look to the future, because who thinks that he can sit back and that he knows what the future is going to look like, is often behind the facts at a later stage. My predecessor has therefore made sense to say that there should be a follow-up to the Van Doorn Committee. She went on to find a new committee whose members, on the one hand, have a strong involvement in livestock farming and the social discussions about it, and, on the other hand, are not active as livestock farmers because she expected an independent role from the committee. That has been a very logical consideration. There are those who know that the spokesmen are different trends and beliefs among the entrepreneurs in the livestock sector. It is precisely the intention in a committee like this that you allow those differences to be addressed and that you can be neutral in it because of your composition. It must not be the case that one movement places little value on the advice of the other movement, and vice versa. On the contrary, there has been a very conscious search for people who are not active farmers themselves. It is important that a committee such as this should be neutral and independent. That does not alter the fact that the committee must, of course, ensure that all these noises are covered. That is precisely the essence of the mission for this committee. The Rosenthal Committee was an initiative of the sector itself. She looks at a future model of income for the farmer. The Nijpels Commission advises government and politics on policy instruments that could be introduced or used to accelerate and strengthen the transition to a more sustainable livestock sector. So the perspective of this committee is not the earning capacity of the farmer, but the broader social agenda around livestock farming. The composition considered whether continuity with the work of the Van Doorn Committee was ensured. Two of the members of this committee, Mr Rottenberg and Mr Scholten, were also on the Van Doorn Committee. Anyone who has claimed that members of this committee had little experience in these discussions did not take a good look at the composition. There was a very conscious choice for a transit line. With the Ed Nijpels Presidency, it has been ensured that the committee is led by someone who has earned his spurs in public administration and has repeatedly shown that he can manage such complex issues in a good way. This is a very important quality, especially in a committee that has to advise government and politics on instruments and measures for the future. When I took office, when I saw the proposal for this committee, I felt that my predecessor had succeeded very well in putting together a good and balanced committee. I have therefore decided to confirm the start of this committee and to ask it to get to work quickly so that we can receive the advice by the summer. A number of members asked whether this should be the umpteenth report. It should not be the umpteenth report. Neither does the committee itself. She wants to look for useful, creative suggestions that governance and stakeholders can do something with. I think that's very important. I do not yet know what form the committee intends to put this into, but it has a clear intention not to write a report again and not to do all kinds of analyses again, but to look for concrete instruments that can be used to help speed up and strengthen sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u89	The Secretary of State is making a wonderful speech. He even seems to be able to talk like a nun from the monastery. But of course it's not. I do want that corrected for the ignorant people. There are no relevant experts in the committee. The Secretary of State pretends that we have talked out of it, but on the committee there is no good representation of farmers and of the veterinary world, such as veterinarians. Those are the only ones in our country, with biologists and ethologists, who really know animals. The Secretary of State may say that, but that's not nice. For there are ignorant people watching and listening, who think: the Graus stood out of his neck chatting. But of course it isn't. Even a blind horse can see that this committee has no balanced composition. That's what I wanted to say. The Secretary of State does not have to respond to that at all, that is purely neat for the Acts and for the people at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u90	I would not say anything about how Mr Graus talks. The words he used were his own words. I do think it is appropriate that we should not talk about people who are not there, who cannot speak themselves. The composition of this committee is my responsibility. I have just explained that the committee is right to be composed of Members who have a strong commitment to the subject, who also have knowledge of it, who have previously looked at such issues but who do not themselves have a role in the livestock sector. If Mr Graus says that there is no one in that committee with a background in livestock farming, I say that this is true. That has been a conscious choice. I shall now go into more detail on how the involvement of the sector and its representatives can be shaped. Mrs Lodders also asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u91	I was merely talking about a factual observation. You pointed out to us that we should not talk about people who cannot resist, Mr President, certainly not in a negative way. However, I only quoted the protagonist. It concerns the Nipples Committee. And I even said that I used to have a poster of the best man next to my bed. That's a good thing. You can do that. Furthermore, I have Hans Hoogeveen, it is a pity that he leaves EZ, because he is one of the few capable people who put a feather in his back. We can do that, but we can't say anything that's negative. There's also someone in there who doesn't know anything about... he doesn't know anything about sewer rats from sewer journalism at all. I didn't mention that person by name either. I'm always very neat in that respect. I'm never gonna charge anyone for anything that can't resist, unless they're MPs. I really didn't do that. I like to do it correctly, and the President can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u92	It's a comment. I don't know if you'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u93	Let me say that, fortunately, Mr Hoogeveen is not leaving EZ. He's going to represent our country in the international landscape.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u94	The Secretary of State talks about independence and balance. Then I'm not gonna get away from talking about people. What is independent and balanced? Are you independent and balanced when you say that agriculture and horticulture should disappear from the Netherlands and that there should instead be nature for recreation? Are you independent and balanced when you say that agriculture and horticulture are subsidies, while two thirds of agricultural and horticultural products are produced without subsidies? Is that independent and balanced in the eyes of the Secretary of State? This was, by the way, at the time when one of the persons was chairman of the World Wildlife Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u95	Mr Geurts quotes a number of statements made by Mr Nijpels in the past. If Mr Geurts quotes Mr Nijpels, he should just call him by name. Looking at Mr Nijpels' record, I find it somewhat inappropriate to take him into account in this house. He has had great merit in all the levels of government we know in this country and proved to be someone who can take the lead on these difficult issues. He can accompany a committee like this to come up with a report with good advice. I therefore believe that it is not appropriate for Mr Geurts to take Mr Nijpels here. In any case, I am incredibly pleased that Mr Nijpels wants to invest time in this and that he is prepared to lead this committee. The chairman of the committee knows better than anyone how heated the debate can sometimes be about the future of intensive livestock farming. I very much appreciate the fact that he wants to use all his experience to ensure that there is an opinion on which we all hope that Mr Geurts is also able to have something in the direction of the government's policy on the future of intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u96	I do everything in my power not to play it on the person, but the Secretary of State says that it is independent and balanced and I ask for explanations, supported by a number of statements that have just been put on paper. I understand that people cannot defend themselves and do nothing about the person and his merits in other areas, but I wonder how the Secretary of State can speak of independence and balance. That's the main question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u97	In the composition of the committee, members who are involved in the subject, but who do not themselves play a direct role in intensive livestock farming, were provided for. They can then make sure that all the different sounds are heard. If you look at the composition of this committee, you will also know that the people in it have the quality to do so. On this basis, they can come up with sound and also supported advice. That is what I expect from this committee and I am confident that the committee can do the same. I would like to say to Mr Geurts that I would expect someone who has such a great commitment to the subject as he would expect him, so to speak, to take any advice because it could lead to new insights. The most risky thing for Dutch agriculture is that you sit back with each other and think: we've all done well. The best thing you can do is keep looking forward. It is fantastic to be able to involve people who want to give their thinking power to think with us about how we can shape the future of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u98	I am not talking to the Secretary of State about the knowledge and content of individual committee members. I trust that the Secretary of State has looked at that very well and that they are also good. However, I have asked questions about how the procedure has been conducted and how transparent it has been. I have a second question. The Secretary of State said: I wanted an independent committee, in which not being an active farmer was important to me. Now there are farmers who are not active. Why not appoint a farmer who has knowledge but is not active to that committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u99	I have already indicated that continuity with the Van Doorn Committee was an important argument. It must also be a committee that is creative, has the willingness and capacity to look at this issue from all sides and can hear in a short time all the sounds that are there, but can also come up with useful and creative suggestions for the future of the policy. The members of this committee have also been selected. I do not think it is appropriate to go into every individual of the committee, but everyone has been able to see the members and have been able to judge that those members are qualified for this role as no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u100	I didn't go into individual committee members, and I'm not going to. That's not my job. That's the job of the Secretary of State. I do not need an answer to that. The point is that a non-active farmer can be as independent and make as many good suggestions as anyone else in this committee. I do not understand why there has been no search for a farmer who knows the day-to-day routine, but is not active and can therefore operate independently in such a committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u101	Mrs Koşer Kaya has also seen that there is someone on the committee who knows a very large number of livestock farmers, because he is responsible for almost the largest funder in this sector. There is therefore no complaint about knowledge of this sector. Much more important, however, is that it is not about whether Jantje or Pietje is on that committee. It is about the fact that the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, which I have discussed in detail with them, has the task of speaking with all those involved and of ensuring that the various noises in agriculture, the food chain and in society are involved. This is important for the way in which the committee does its work. The committee must deliver an opinion which will not only benefit me and which will help us as a government, but which, I hope, will also help you as politicians, as representatives of the people, at the time when you are going to shape your policy for the future. This can only be done if the committee organises its work well. She's doing the same thing. The Committee has already had several discussions and will have several discussions with farmers, farmers' representatives, slaughterhouses, meat processors, customers, civil society organisations and other important stakeholders. They asked about nature organisations. They've already been to the table. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked whether the consumer's perspective would be involved. Of course, the consumer's perspective must also be taken into account. The point is that this committee ensures that all these perspectives are involved, that it speaks to representatives of all the various organisations and, on this basis, comes to a sound and supported opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u102	The Secretary of State continues his speech, Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u103	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u104	You can make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u105	All colleagues have asked questions about this section. I am happy to ask one question with colleagues and then a follow-up question. We also have time, in itself, to go into this point a little further. I would really like to ask you a few questions on this point, because this is very closely listening. I cannot hold a debate with two interruptions and then come forward with motions; I am not in the mood for that. I therefore ask the President to ask me one more question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u106	You also have a second term, but we are not very tight in time. The only drawback from the President's point of view is that if I give you a third interruption, the others ask for it. That way we'll be out of time, but I'll give you a third interruption. What you're saying is an appropriate point. I assume you're a little more reluctant on other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u107	Of course, this committee will talk to all kinds of interested parties, I think! She should be, because otherwise there will be a report that we say: what about the balances and the hearing of the people involved? The point is, however, that no single consumer has been appointed in the committee on the future of livestock farming, for example from a consumer organisation, and not one farmer or an ex-farmer. When the report is drawn up, a number of issues are also being discussed. It is therefore important that it is recognizable from the outside that there have been people inside who can independently weigh their points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u108	Let me therefore say first of all that I am pleased to see that the talks that have already taken place show that there is a strong desire from the sector to enter into talks with this committee. On the contrary, people want to get rid of their stories on the committee. It is therefore clear from the sector that this committee can be useful for the future of intensive livestock farming. In reply to Mrs Koşer Kaya's question, let me also answer Mrs Lodder's question. I would, of course, like this committee to be carried from within the sector itself. I therefore welcome the fact that the committee can play a neutral role, but I have also heard the criticism, for example from LTO. Mrs Lodders asked whether it was possible to arrange for the sector to be represented on the committee. LTO initially had some reservations, but in reply to Mrs Lodder's question I can say that LTO would like to cooperate with the committee. However, LTO asked whether the committee could then function within the ESC framework, so that it would also be free to take part in the discussions. I discussed this with Mr Nijpels and Mr Maat, LTO President. They have made good agreements on this matter. They also asked me if I could accept that the committee should function in the ESC context. I have no objection to that. In fact, I am particularly pleased that this also means that LTO can abandon the previous objections and co-operate with this committee. So I think that is an important step. I have said before that I think it is important that all the different sounds can be properly addressed. That is why I accept this step at the request of Mr Nijpels and Mr Maat. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked whether we would like to lay down all kinds of further conditions for the opinion of the committee. I do not want that, because I want an open attitude from the committee and I do not want to steer in a certain direction beforehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u109	We're officially hearing something new here. What the hell does this mean? Did the committee just shut down? Has the chairman of the SER become the client? What does it mean, in concrete terms, that the committee is under the Economic and Social Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u110	This means, in concrete terms, that the committee simply continues in exactly the same way, because as a ruler, I can also ask for an opinion from a specific committee of the ESC. It means that this committee, under the flag of the ESC, will continue its work. I'm still trying to formalize that right now. This means, in concrete terms, that LTO has the freedom, if it so wishes, to join the discussions of this committee. At least, it is necessary to discuss in the SER context who can join, but it is obvious that LTO can do so. That was LTO's request which Mr Maat discussed with Mr Nijpels. They have agreed to this together. As I said, I have no objection if this leads to LTO abandoning its previous objections and cooperating cooperatively with this committee. That also benefits the work of that committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u111	In concrete terms, therefore, the Nipples Commission, set up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, is no longer there when it is placed under the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u112	No, that committee simply continues to function in the same composition with exactly the same mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u113	I'm still curious what assignment that is, but that's what I'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u114	It was in the letter I sent to the Chamber. So Mr Geurts already has one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u115	Well, I guess I'm just gonna have to respond. The head of the letter says "milk cattle farming." Further on, it says "intensive livestock farming." What sector is it and how does it relate to the Rosenthal committee, which, in intensive livestock farming, reads: pig farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u116	I would like to quote from what I wrote to him earlier: "The mandate I gave to this committee is to come up with concrete proposals for actions and measures for interested parties (public authorities, industry, civil society, market players and citizens), which contribute to the further sustainability of intensive livestock farming in the ecological, social and economic sense. This further sustainability should lead to better social embedding of intensive livestock farming." That is the task as it literally went to the Nipples Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u117	Is this committee under the ESC because the VVD had difficulty not being represented by livestock farmers? Or has the Secretary of State come to the conclusion that he has been too quick and careless by not having the livestock farm appointed to such a committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u118	No, it was LTO's explicit request. I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u119	Then I can only conclude that the Secretary of State could have thought of this and that a solution has now been devised for something that had not been settled in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u120	No, because it was already foreseen in the committee that discussions would be held, including with representatives from the various sectors and the LTO, who have already sat at the committee's table. LTO has asked for it to be organised in this way. I don't see the big problem of doing that. Mr Nijpels had no objection to that at all. As far as I'm concerned, he's the first to go into that. Mr Nijpels said: I think it would be a good idea to do so. I have no objection, so I'm just accommodating it. That seems to me to be a pleasant way of working together, which I would recommend to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u121	From the answer given by the Secretary of State, I understand that LTO is explicitly involved in the committee and has been given a certain position. I have also mentioned a number of other parties. Let me mention them: Network Fundamental, organic farmers, the Dutch Dairy Farmers Union and the Dutch Dairymen Board. Youth organisations were also mentioned in this debate. Are all these parties also explicitly involved by the Nijpels Committee in the preparation of its opinion and, if so, in what way? Can the Secretary of State give us some coloring on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u122	I am not giving the order to the committee exactly who to speak to. I asked the committee to have different sounds addressed. I have also seen who the committee has been talking to so far. There are a number of organisations that Mr Van Gerven mentioned. It is up to the committee to explain afterwards how it has come to its opinion. It's not for me to pre-capture that. I also believe that the committee should be free to do so. I ask the committee to come up with a good opinion. To make that possible, I make sure that she hears different sounds and also includes them in her opinion. It is up to the committee to decide exactly how it organises it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u123	LTO has, however, been given a special position. I understand the Secretary of State's position. The committee gets an assignment and has to make its own decision. However, I think that, now that LTO has been given a certain position in the whole, it is important that the organisations that I mentioned are also heard and that are not always on good terms with LTO. I wasn't complete yet, because I didn't mention the animal protectors and the nature and environmental clubs. The Committee should be encouraged to involve the general public in the drafting of the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u124	As I said, the agreement has been made with the committee that all the noises will be covered. In order to arrive at a good and supported advice it is necessary to hear all the different noises in the livestock sector. That committee will also speak with all those parties. The Members of Parliament have asked some specific questions. Mr Geurts came up with the beautiful initiative of a number of political youth organisations, the NajK and the YFM. At first he said that he did not need concrete, detailed proposals that the Nipples Committee is working on, but then he asked me if I could support this initiative with a number of concrete, detailed proposals based on the pamphlet made by these youth organisations. I appreciate it very much. I would like to encourage this discussion between the various youth organisations, and I will also call on the youth organisation of my own political party to join. I think it is extremely good that this is happening. I would also like to ask the initiators of the leaflet to move forward and broaden the group. I have to say that I didn't necessarily have to do this. As representatives of political parties, we are perfectly capable of calling on our youth organisations to take this step. I find it incredibly good that the political youth organisations, the Dutch agricultural youth and the Youth Food Movement are also jointly looking to the future of our agriculture. That could be a valuable contribution to the debate and perhaps also a good addition to what the Nipples Committee comes up with. Mr Van Gerven asked if I would like to conduct a survey among the forerunners. I don't see any immediate cause for this. I have already said that I expect the Nipples Committee to hear and incorporate all the different sounds, including those of predecessors, in its opinion. Mr Van Gerven further asked whether the restructuring of pig farming would provide a solution for sustainability. This restructuring is important for creating framework conditions to enable further sustainability. The opinion of the Rosenthal Committee is aimed at strengthening the future of pig farming in the Netherlands. As I said earlier, this future is only there when it is sustainable, both economically and ecologically. The role of animal welfare in this process must also be taken into account if we are to achieve a good future strategy. The Rosenthal Committee is now working on this approach for pig farming. I am awaiting the opinion of the committee. I expect the advice will be there before the summer. Mr Van Gerven asked if I would restrict the purchasing power of supermarkets in particular. Supermarkets must comply with competition rules. The Authority for Consumer & Market, which has an independent position, shall ensure that it does so. The cabinet has already said that it would like to clarify the policy rules, the competition rules that apply to sustainability initiatives. The Minister for Economic Affairs will come forward with an appropriate policy on competition and sustainability this spring. Mr Graus asked about the implementation of his adopted motions. He referred, among other things, to a motion tabled on 22 March last. In the short term, I will report on how this motion is implemented, either through the annotated agenda or through the report of the Agriculture Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u125	I was actually asking about the implementation of two adopted motions. The first motion concerns the better income model for farmers. I quoted it in my speech. At the end of my speech, I asked whether the Secretary of State might be able to say a little more about the motion in which I asked the government to consider which EU legislation is not feasible or not workable for our farmers, growers and fishermen. That motion has also been adopted. I can immediately send the Secretary of State the exact number of that motion; I do not know that number by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u126	From that last motion, I know the exact number, but I don't know who needs that information. What I have just said concerns the last motion that Mr Graus mentioned. There are a few traces for the implementation of the first motion. Firstly, the Nipples Committee is looking at a sustainable future for intensive livestock farming, as I have already said, and I note that a sustainable future is also an economic future. It's also about a pay model. For example, the position of the farmer in the chain can also be considered. Perhaps even more importantly, Mr Veerman's task force is currently active at EU level. It's coming in for the summer with a mid-term report. Mr Veerman has promised to come forward with a final report before the end of the year, which will focus on the functioning of the market throughout the chain and the strengthening of the farmer's position in that chain. I do not fully control the EU agenda, because I represent only one of the 28 Member States, but this is the way to work in line with Mr Graus' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u127	Now it appears that the committee is also talking about the income model, it is all the more important that the farmers are represented, through LTO or another organisation. That's what it turns out. That gives me even more motivation to be against this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u128	I would like to come back to the previous point: market power. I've prepared a motion. I will read out the operative part of that motion and ask the Secretary of State if it satisfies what the Minister of Economic Affairs is doing. I just want to make sure that's true. The operative part is as follows: invites the Government to consult with the Authority Consumer & Markt on how cases of abuse of purchasing power can be more actively detected and combated, paying particular attention to the purchasing power of supermarket formulas. The Minister for Economic Affairs says that the ACM is working on a policy rule on that point. Does that correspond to the request I made to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u129	It depends on what Mr Van Gerven is trying to do. Perhaps I could take Mr Van Dekken's question with me right away. The initiative of Kip van Morgen is more or less backed up by the ACM. This led us to look at the Competition and Sustainability Policy Rule. This is about whether you can make agreements with different parties in the chain about making the product more sustainable. These agreements are, of course, a breach of free competition, but there is room for this when they contribute to sustainability. The exact appearance of this area will therefore be clarified by the Minister in the new Competition and Sustainability Policy Rule. It is therefore explicitly about making agreements in the chain. Mr Van Gerven is actually asking for abuse of market power. That's something the ACM oversees anyway. The ACM has an independent role in this. We cannot, therefore, say to the ACM that it needs to do a little more and a little less. The ACM determines that itself and simply maintains the competition rules. So my impression is that it is not quite the same as Mr Van Gerven is asking, but that it is undoubtedly the same objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u130	I think that observation is correct. My motion also contains the request for more active abuse. This element is included, but I think that I have to table my motion for a resolution and we should continue the debate for a while. Because I don't think we're gonna make it all the way out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u131	I refer Mr Van Gerven to the pilot on unfair commercial practices, which was recently reported to the Chamber. Recently, reports have been sent to the Chamber on the evaluation of that pilot and on how it will proceed. So perhaps it would be good if Mr Van Gerven could take a look at that. Then he can see if he thinks that is sufficient or that he has a further step in mind. In doing so, I also answered Mr Van Dekken's questions on the role of the ACM. He also indicated that he had some concerns about initiatives like the Kip of Tomorrow. If you look at what is actually happening now, you can see that Albert Heijn has already switched to a new chicken and does not assume the regular chicken anymore. Also Jumbo is now pretty much over on a new chicken, which again meets just other conditions. So we can see that this movement is indeed taking place. Albert Heijn, who only sells his fresh pork on the basis of one star Better Life Brand, has recently announced that it will now do the same for meat products. Such initiatives can be seen at different supermarkets. So I do not share the scepticism about the role of supermarkets that I sometimes belong to the PvdA Group. That's what I've said here before. Supermarkets are perhaps the engine behind this kind of change. Of course I understand that Mr Van Dekken is asking: couldn't it be faster? But it is already quite unique in Europe that this is happening in this way in the Netherlands. Mr Van Dekken also asked whether the committee also looks at the Brabant Act and how it stands with it. I didn't specifically instruct the committee to investigate that Brabant Act. I also did not ask her to zoom in on specific provinces; it should be a national advice. At the initiative of the province of North Brabant, the cabinet specifically included an experimental clause for this province in the Crisis and Recovery Act, to reduce nuisance in cattle-rich areas. The province of Noord-Brabant is now the first move to see what the possibilities are. We are now awaiting that step of the province, after which we will see how we proceed. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u132	I have two more questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, the Secretary of State indicates that the committee is being hung under the ESC. I expect the sector to support this wholeheartedly, which has responded to the wish and which will lead to broad support. If that is not the case, I have another follow-up question. So I hope the Secretary of State will confirm that. Secondly, I asked a question about the Rosenthal Committee and the Nipplels Committee. I have heard the Secretary of State say that the Rosenthal Committee will probably come up with the outcome before the summer. Could it be that the results of the two committees intersect? How's the Secretary of State handling that? The Rosenthal Committee is an initiative of the sector, which means that we are on the way to the vital agenda of pig farming. It would be a shame if that were crossed. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u133	As I indicated, there was LTO's request for cooperation with the committee to be suspended under the ESC. This shows that LTO is willing to cooperate with this committee, where LTO has previously cracked critical notes. I think this is a very important step, because it can provide a broader opinion from the Nipples Committee. I'm very attached to that. I therefore had no objection to the agreements made by Mr Nijpels on this matter with Mr Maat. I also indicated that I would like to accommodate them. This is a constructive cooperation, and I think that is very important. Mrs Lodder's second question is whether the work of the Nipples Committee is interfering with the work of the Rosenthal Committee. That is not the case, because they have a different perspective. There is also a certain overlap in the composition of both committees, which ensures that they will not do each other's work again. The perspective of the Nijpels Committee is very strongly the search for concrete actions and measures that can contribute to the further sustainability of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands in the broad sense, while the Rosenthal Committee focuses on solving an existing acute problem in pig farming. Two members of the Rosenthal Committee are also present in the Nijpels Committee. So it is also in this way ensured that the work of the committees does not cross each other, but is interrelated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u134	As far as the latter is concerned, I trust that the outcome of the Rosenthal Committee, regardless of its content, will be respected. Of course, we cannot anticipate the content. The point is that at least that committee is not working for nothing. I saw the overlap. On the first point, I tend to assume that there is a very broad representation of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, even wider than agriculture, because we are not just talking about intensive livestock farming. Many related sectors are also involved. I do believe that this is widely supported by the sector and that we will not have any discussion about it. I hear the Secretary of State say that this is not the case, that it is supported and that this is the route we are going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mrs Lodders should not ask me if I can ask Mr Maat to go around the country cheerfully. Of course, he had some criticism of the setting up of this committee, but I think it is an important step that LTO now wants to work constructively together. Mrs Lodders is right that in the ESC context, for example, employers and businesses are also represented on the food chain. In doing so, there is also the possibility for them to closely monitor the work of the committee. However, as I said earlier, it has no implications for cooperation nor for the commission's mission, other than that due to the ESC association, a number of people can join the committee. But the committee will continue to do the same work. I have one final comment to make. I understand very well that sometimes, even from the sector, people are asked whether it is really necessary for all kinds of people to look at the future of companies in the sector. This is a very important issue for the whole of agriculture, but certainly for the intensive livestock sector, perhaps the economic sector which is the main source of debate in society and for which public support is crucial in order to move forward, in order to have a future in the Netherlands. I said before that my starting point is the Van Doorn Committee. It has said that there is intensive livestock farming, which will not just disappear and which will still be there in the near future. However, it will have to make a transition and make it more sustainable. It will have to take account of social wishes, questions and discussion. These include animal welfare, sustainability, public health and spatial embedding. I very much look forward to the opinions of the Nipples Committee. I hope and expect them to be interesting not only for me, the department and other authorities, but also for the sector and the spokesmen in the Chamber. There will probably be the necessary concrete actions and measures, which will help us to further define and shape the policy for the future of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. The task of the committee is also to come up with very concrete suggestions on how we can further speed up and strengthen this sustainability. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to work on the opinions as soon as they arrive. I look forward to the exchange of views that we will have with each other by then on the opinion of the Nipples Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u136	I thank the Secretary of State. We need the second term of office, with Mr Geurts of the CDA Group as the first speaker. Before he starts, I'd like to make one more comment. The Chamber is performing some sort of balancing act. It concerns, among other things, the staffing of the committee, without going too much into the person of those people. That's good. I would like to point out that we must also maintain this balance in the second term. If you don't mention a person's name, you might be able to identify him. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u137	I would like to make a point of order. Can we still talk about the Nipples Committee? Or are we talking about the Committee on the Future of Farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u138	The latter is most obvious, but "Nipples" is also fine as far as I am concerned because this is the spoken language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u139	I'm gonna change my motion. Mr. Chairman. Debate must lead to clarification, that's how they taught me. This afternoon there has been more confusion. At least it's increased with me. During the debate it emerged that the Committee on Future Farming was apparently included in an ESC opinion on the circular economy. Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the mandate from the Committee on Future Farming and to thank its members for the work carried out so far,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u140	I'd like to report two more things to the Secretary of State. He talked about 92% of calf farming in relation to what I believe is European income support. I would like to receive the calculation model and the underlying figures, so that I can check how that percentage has been achieved. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to the political youth organisations. Several colleagues have talked about this. They are also going to approach their young people as I understand it. That is a reason for me not to make a motion on this. We are going, perhaps informally, to try to follow up on that. At least I thank the Secretary of State for his words on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u141	Mr. Chairman. I will mention a few names, but given the context of my motion, I hope you will forgive me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, inter alia:]] [[the report of the Smit-Kroes Committee on the functioning of the Ministry of LNV (1992);]] [[the report on the future of livestock farming by the Wijffels Commission (2001);]] [[the report of the Planning Office for the Environment on the progress made in the sustainability of livestock farming (2010);]] [[the manifest sustainable livestock production (2010);]] [[the report "From mega to better" of the social dialogue on scale and the future of livestock farming (2011);]] [[the report "All meat sustainable" by the Van Doorn Committee (2011);]] [[the reports of the Van Dijk Committee and the Ombudsman on Q fever (2010 and 2012);]] [[the reports on the sustainability of livestock farming of the General Court (2008 and 2013);]] [[Recalling the shared conclusion that the intensification of livestock farming has gone through and poses problems for animal welfare, public health, nature and the environment and for livestock farmers themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to put an end to the livestock industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u142	Mr. Chairman. In dealing with the budget, I submitted the great food vision of D66. It can serve as a source of inspiration for the committee. I therefore hope that this committee will now talk to everyone, take up the D66 food vision and perhaps come and talk to me as well. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the members of the Committee on Future Farming have been appointed by co-optation;]] [[Whereas it is important for the approval of committees investigating the future of a sector that the establishment procedure and the appointment of members should be transparent;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint only members to such committees who have been recruited in response to a public vacancy and a transparent selection process;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u143	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. We have debated the Committee on the Future of Farming. The debate took a slightly different turn, in the sense that the sector is involved by adding the ESC to the committee. At least, the committee will work under the ESC. I trust that the sector will support this wholeheartedly, as the Secretary of State has also confirmed. In any case, I think that the fact that there is a broad representation is a positive turn of events. As I indicated in the first term, it is up to the Secretary of State to ask a committee for advice. We await the results. Firstly, I think it is important that the committees that have been set in motion should not be crossed. We must respect them, especially because they have been set in motion from within the sector itself. Secondly, I hear all kinds of reports coming through. Let's give the fact that our Dutch livestock farming works in a very sustainable and innovative, high-productive way and the world's leader is mainly to the committee. I trust that this will be properly taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u144	Mr. Chairman. I assume that the Nipples Committee will listen and therefore, publicly, ask the committee for a balanced consultation of all those involved in this important issue. I think it's the most correct way to do it. I have a question for the Secretary of State. Does he think that, where the market fails, the government should act? That is what we can see from the question of intensive livestock farming. Can he also reflect on the Van Doorn Commission's statement that the market will solve it all? Finally, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas supermarkets regularly impose one-sided price reductions on producers;]] [[noting that purchasing power is also market power;]] [[considers that abuse of purchasing power should be addressed more effectively;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with the Authority Consumer & Market how cases of abuse of purchasing power can be more actively detected and combated, paying particular attention to the purchasing power of supermarket formulas;]] [[also invites the Government to report to the Chamber on the results for the 2016 budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u145	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Nijpels Committee should give opinions on the future of livestock farming;]] [[points out that livestock farming consists of farmers and animals;]] [[noting that the veterinary and livestock sectors are not represented in the Nijpels Commission;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint an appropriate expert committee with balanced representation of relevant actors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u146	It says "heard the debate" above the motion. We have talked about the dismantling of the bio-industry, about a better earning model, about regulation from the European Union that gives our farmers a heads-up over and over again. That is all involved with the 'heard the debate'. It encompasses everything. Have a nice day, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u147	The same applies to you, but let us first wait for the further progress of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u148	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. The PvdA welcomes the unconventional committee's view. We also wish the committee every success in its work, which must be completed just before the summer. I also welcome the statement by the Secretary of State that it is really about concrete measures and instruments. That cuts wood. The comment on the new competition and sustainability policy can also be appreciated, as can the pilot on unfair commercial practices. I'd like to have that named.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u149	I see the Secretary of State needs to get his papers in order, but then he can start his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u150	Mr. Chairman. I think I've taken note of all the questions. If not, I'll hear it in interruptions. I thank the Chamber for this second term and the words of support I have heard from a number of Members. That is what I support in my first plea: it is always good to think about the future. No economic sector, but certainly not this one, will benefit from elected representatives who say that it is wise to sit back and not think about the future. I thought that was sensible words from a number of Members. Not everyone had that conviction. Mr Geurts asks me, by way of a motion, to withdraw the mandate to the committee. I won't. I advise against this motion. In the first period, I have sufficiently explained why I consider the opinion of this committee to be desirable. I'd like to look forward to that advice anyway. Mr Geurts asked for the calculations I used to indicate that percentage. That is possible and I am happy to say so. Moreover, these calculations are based on LEI and CBS figures. In his motion, Mr Wassenberg asks for item No. 172 to come up with a plan of action to put an end to the livestock industry. I assume that Mr Wassenberg means the whole intensive livestock sector. I can see that this is the case, but I must also, of course, advise against this motion. I would also like to say to Mr Wassenberg that it is not a real question of his. We all consume meat and eggs, and they can only be produced by keeping animals. Therefore, stopping animals does not seem to me to be a real ambition as long as we consume meat and eggs, and I suspect that humanity will do so in its final days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u151	The Secretary of State has read the motion wrongly, because I am not asking for a ban on animal husbandry but on the livestock industry. If the Netherlands were to stop being the butcher and milkman of Europe, that would be quite possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u152	That's just the question. In the first term, I have already referred to the transition in the poultry holding of the regular chicken, which Mr Wassenberg here always calls the puff chicken, to a chicken that grows slower and has more space. This still does not mean that this meat is produced in a way that Mr Wassenberg would not call intensive livestock farming. In my opinion, the demand for such products in the Netherlands can only be accepted in a way that Mr Wassenberg will always be regarded as an intensive livestock farming industry. I am concerned that livestock farming should be sustainable, that more attention should be paid to animal welfare and sustainability, and that livestock farming should have a good economic future. Finally, there must also be social support, and that is why I explained in detail in the first place that there are major concerns in all these areas and that we must therefore consider how we can respond to these concerns. Hopefully the Nipples Commission will help us with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u153	If we were to reduce the number of chickens of 550 million a year and bring down the number of pigs of 13 million a year, we would be well on our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u154	But that is not what Mr Wassenberg is asking in his motion. He's asking me to quit completely, and that's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koşer-Kaya asked the government in its motion for a resolution on item No. 173 to recruit only with a public vacancy and a transparent selection process. I'm deceiving that motion. A cabinet will always need external advice. Sometimes it is also very useful to approach people directly, because some would not even apply for such a job. And it can be very useful to include those people in a committee, precisely because you want to hear different sounds. It's a privilege of the cabinet to seek people for themselves. If the Chamber assembles a commission, it can approach anyone. A cabinet sometimes needs advice from third parties. I also do not really see the objection that these third parties should sometimes be directly approached with the request to participate in such an opinion. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u155	You can be transparent about that too, and that is what I am asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u156	I think I have just spent two hours explaining the composition of this committee. This is much more transparent than most advisory committees, because the Chamber does not so often pay so much attention to the composition of a committee. As the Cabinet should be, I assume that all members of the Cabinet are prepared at all times to answer for the composition of such advisory committees. I believe that this is part of the open relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet. Mr Van Gerven has taken part in the debate. 174 tabled a motion in the Minister's policy area, because that motion concerns the ACM. I have not been able to consult with the Minister in the half-minute I had to prepare for my second term. I would therefore ask Mr Van Gerven to hold the motion so that the Minister can give it an opinion. As I have already indicated, the Court received an evaluation on 6 April on the pilots Code of Conduct for fair commercial practices. There has also been a steering group containing the FNLI, the CBL, which are the supermarkets..... and LTO. This has led to greater awareness. So things have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u157	Before I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven, do you have a deadline within which the Minister will respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u158	It is most appropriate to raise this issue in a debate on competition and to put forward such a motion, but I do not know whether such a debate has taken place. I understand from the Members of the House that this will be in June. I think it would be best to hold the motion until then and then ask the Minister for a response to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u159	However, it is very specific about the area in which the Secretary of State operates. Is it possible that he will pass the motion on to the Minister with the request to give an opinion on it? I have also looked at unfair commercial practices, which was not satisfactory. That's why I filed the motion. If the Secretary of State wishes to do so, I will, of course, await the Minister's reply and hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u160	Of course. I would be happy to ask the Minister if he could respond in writing. I myself, in the debate between the Chamber and the Cabinet, always agree that there is also an opportunity to discuss something with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u161	We have also discussed this issue very much with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I do not think I have spoken to Mr Van Dam about this, but I certainly do with his predecessor. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment and keep the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u162	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (28973, No. 174). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u163	Mr Van Gerven also asked me to reflect on the argument that the market should solve the sustainability of livestock farming but that it, in his words, always fails and that the government should act. This is always a matter of glass half full or half empty. When I see what has been done, including from the market, to make meat more sustainable, I see that the market is taking responsibility. Van Doorn said that only sustainable meat should remain in the supermarkets by 2020. You can always discuss what standard you apply. Just now I referred to chicken, where steps are taken. I referred to pork and the fact that in the main supermarkets there is only pork with one star better animal protection quality mark. A few years ago, that was unthinkable. In this sense, the market itself is taking steps. I think that's preferable to a government that has to take responsibility. This means that the public authorities not only assume a heavy responsibility, but also have to implement policies, budget and enforce them. This is an incredibly difficult responsibility in terms of feasibility. It is therefore my preference, as I say to Mr Van Gerven, that the market itself takes this kind of step, which is also aware of the changing social environment and of changing consumer demand. I see that awareness, but I also see that it is necessary to accelerate that development. That is one of the reasons why the Nipples Committee should be asked to give its opinion and to consider the role that the government could play in accelerating this development and pushing the market forward. Then there is Mr Graus' motion on item No. 175. It calls on the government to amend the composition of the Nipples Commission. I have stated in detail that I consider the committee to be sufficiently competent and balanced to be able to speak with all those involved, to weigh all the noises and to deliver concrete, sound and well-supported opinions. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u164	I am not asking for the Nipples Committee to be adjusted, because, as I said, I do not want to talk negative about the person. I did say, "Eddy with the umpteenth cap." The best man's got way too much to do. You can only serve one king at a time. I asked for the appointment of a competent committee. I have no problem with the fact that Mr Hans Hoogeveen will be in charge of this in no time. I would like farmers and veterinary experts to be involved. That's the point. In my motion, I am not talking at all about those Nipples Committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u165	I have already said that I do not think it is particularly appropriate for someone with Mr Nijpels' stature to be taken up in this way. I would like to wish Mr Graus could one day achieve the same status and be asked to play a role in the same questions. I think we have exchanged enough about the composition and mandate of this committee and it is clear that I am not recommending this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u166	I am very satisfied with my status as one of the animal ambassadors of the Netherlands and founder of 144 rescue an animal, the animal police. I'm very happy with that. I'm not trying to become a political bollocks. I'm not gonna do that at all. I just want to say that I once sat in a Jeroen Pauw programme with Mr Nijpels. That's where we just talked about "Edje Raketje." Now I'm gonna say "One more hat," but that's what I'm gonna say when he's there. I also said in advance that it's not personal, but that's what I call him. I do think you should only serve one king at a time. So many commissioners and committees serving is not going well. Remember, I was one of the members of the De Wit Committee. It showed that the best thing to do is to serve one king at a time and not to do a hundred things at once, because then things don't go well. It turned out there, too. I speak from experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u167	I take note of all these views expressed by Mr Graus. I have said before that I do not think it appropriate to talk about the people here, other than to express my deep appreciation for the work that Mr Nijpels has done in the past and is doing at the moment, almost all of us in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-12.u168	The votes will be taken next Tuesday.
