ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, the applicant for this VSO, as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the Christian Union and the SGP. Last night we received this 100-page directive and today we must state whether we agree to it. We have to decide on 100 pages of pension legislation from Europe within 24 hours. There are a number of positive points: the Secretary of State has succeeded in ensuring that there are no delegated acts, the European Commission is not allowed to lay down rules itself, and the Netherlands Bank is allowed to say something about the Dutch pension system itself. However, the Dutch pension system and the Dutch pensioners are worse off with this directive than without this directive. The directive deals exclusively with the Netherlands. After leaving the UK, 60% of pension assets across Europe are Dutch: 15 million Dutch people have 1,200 billion euros, while the other 400 million EU citizens have less. Germany has negotiated an exception of around 100% in paragraph 16. The Directive aims, through Article 13, to allow pension funds to move to another country. Why would you want to do that? If a pension fund is moved from the Netherlands to another country, DNB may test very limited whether that is in the interest of the participant. Article 13.5b states that this is only possible on three grounds. If DNB refuses, a foreign fund can argue to a foreign judge that it is as good abroad as it is here. That doesn't even happen to a Dutch judge. Then you have to fight something like that in Cyprus or Malta. Such a country can then say on the basis of Article 14.4b (E) that it uses a 5% interest rate. The result is that you can count yourself abroad and not here, and that leads to great arbitration. The Directive can provide a one-sided flow of outgoing funds, while funds are social security institutions and not market institutions. If funds are allowed to choose where they want to settle, we really have learned nothing from the financial crisis. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since the Brexit, the present IORP-II Pension Directive is almost exclusively concerned with the Dutch scheme;]] [[noting that the Dutch House of Representatives has previously drawn a yellow card against a concept of this directive;]] [[noting that the present Directive has improved on the original plan, such as the fact that the delegated regulation has been removed;]] [[noting, however, that the Dutch pension funds directive encourages them to settle abroad, and that the directive does not give DNB sufficient powers to protect participants;]] [[considers that the Dutch pension system is part of the social security system and that there is no reason to encourage pension funds to move to choose their own supervision;]] [[Considers that the departure of pension funds and supervisory arbitrage are extremely undesirable and in the long term lead to serious damage to the Dutch system and to Dutch pensioners and workers;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the proposed IORP-II Directive on pension funds and to ensure that no proposals for a new Directive are made in this area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Ulenbelt, Mr Schouten, Mr De Graaf, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Van Vliet and Mr Van Klaveren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33931-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt has already asked a number of important questions. I await with great interest the answers of the Secretary of State. However, I also have two questions for her. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the Dutch supervisor, the Dutch Bank, has a right of veto when transferring pension assets abroad? Yes or no? My second question concerns something that we have discussed a number of times in the run-up to this final journey. Is the conclusion correct that there are a little more communication provisions than the original proposal? Can the Secretary of State confirm that it is a very limited extension? What does this mean for the administrative burden of pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u4	What does the VVD Group think about us having to decide on a 100-page directive within 24 hours? Does she really think it's 100 pages without administrative burden?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u5	As Mr Omtzigt has heard, I have said that he has asked a number of important questions. I await with interest the answers of the Secretary of State. I share Mr Omtzig's view that it is a huge package of paper. I am also very curious about the answer from the Secretary of State to my question on administrative burdens. We have discussed the communication provisions and delegated acts with each other before. I see a number of positive elements coming back, but my question is what they mean for the administrative burden. I can imagine that the Secretary of State has not yet been able to assess this in this short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. As is well known, 50PLUS has serious concerns about all European legislation on pensions. We fear that the sneaking process of directives and regulations from Brussels will undermine our sovereignty with regard to our pension system. It happens in small minimal steps, but those steps are taken. Moving pension funds and choosing supervision do not seem appropriate for pension funds. After all, it is our Dutch system, one of the best pension systems in the world. We have to be careful about that. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? We consider regulations to be superfluous and undesirable in order to promote the relocation of pension funds and the like. In any case, this brings unnecessary risks to our necks. We do not want this to happen with pensions. 50PLUS therefore has the motion-Omtzigt c.s. in piece No. 15 co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mrs Lodder asked if there was a right of veto of the Dutch Bank for the relocation of Dutch pension funds abroad. I've read the whole play. I think there's a right of veto. If so, are we not better off without this directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u8	I can't honestly judge it yet. I note, however, that with all this regulation, Europe is taking ever further steps towards co-decision on our pensions. I want to be careful with that. I do not want to review a 100-page document that we received last night so quickly and risk regretting it all later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u9	Before I give her the floor, I would ask Mrs Vermeij: has this item not been discussed in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u10	No, but I won't explain the whole procedure to you, Mr. President. I say to Mr Krol: you say with me that this is an interesting question to carry on with. So it is actually a supplementary question to Mrs Lodder's question: are we not better off with this right of veto from the national supervisory authority than without this directive? Apart from the fact that, in my view, we also benefit from the fact that other countries are building up good pension schemes. I would actually like to put that question to the Secretary of State through Mr Krol. I think the Secretary of State agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u11	I see the chairman nodding. I am also very curious about the answer, but let us be very careful together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for allowing this debate to take place so quickly. Since the European Commission has put forward a proposal for a revision of the IORP Directive, we have, of course, had many exchanges of views on this subject. The concerns of the Court about the Commission's proposal were very clear. During the negotiations, we have always been committed to this. With result, because all concerns have been met: no harmonisation of capital requirements, no delegated powers for the Commission or EIOPA, no detailed communication requirement, no detailed governance requirements and no obligation for a depositary for DC schemes. Then what does the directive regulate? The main change in the directive is that it is now Europeanly regulated that the Dutch Bank, our supervisor, can intervene if a Dutch pension fund wants to leave abroad. There is now nothing for that at European level. I listened very carefully to the debate just now. The right of veto of the Dutch Bank is therefore now European. Thus, other countries will also have more robust systems based on this directive. That was a question from Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u13	I read on page 36, Article 13 (5) (b) that there are only three grounds on which DNB may block. One ground is not that there is insufficient supervision in another country. Is that right? At the time DNB says no, it must inform the regulator in Cyprus, for example, if the pension fund wants to go there. Is it true that you can fight this, but only with the courts in Cyprus and not with the courts in Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u14	Indeed, there are a number of supervisory criteria on the basis of which the Dutch Bank can exercise that right of veto. They are meticulously entrusted to the paper. You asked whether, if a fund goes to Cyprus, the court in Cyprus, the court in the Netherlands or the European court is competent. I can get that checked out for you. The most important thing is that the Dutch Bank can exercise the right of veto if a fund has relocation plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u15	That right of veto in Article 5b seems very limited. It is limited to: 1. If the fund is to be split, those who are left behind must not be disadvantaged. But most of the time, funds aren't split up. 2. The point is that individual pensions should not be reduced at the time of transfer. If you transfer to a country where supervision is much laxer, you don't have to shorten at the time of transfer. 3. As long as all the funds go through. Yeah, I think that's obvious. If you have a fund with €100 in it, you may not transfer just €80 to put the remaining €20 in your pocket. We will soon agree on that, because no one will think that is a good idea. It should not be assessed whether the participants are well protected in the other country. The Dutch participants who have built up a pension in the Netherlands must hope that it goes well in that other country. Is it true that DNB has very limited opportunities to veto something? If anyone disagrees with DNB, can he only go to the court in Cyprus or Malta and not to the court in Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u16	The added value of the directive is that there is now a triple lock at European level. The Nederlandsche Bank can say no if the rights of the participants are affected, if the financial position of a fund is not in order or if the survivors are not protected. That is, of course, very fundamental. At the moment, funds are also going abroad, and it is essential that we ensure that this is done at European level. In addition, participants or their representatives must agree to the departure of a fund abroad. Thanks to the Room, the OR has also gained a much firmer position. Finally, the foreign supervisor should also check that the long-term interests of the participants are well protected. In short, there really is a triple lock on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u17	Can the Secretary of State confirm that the social law of the Netherlands continues to apply? When this directive does not apply, this means that DNB has no right of veto in it and that pension administrators or employers can accommodate their scheme abroad without that test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u18	I did not quite understand the second question. The first question is whether our social law will continue to apply. The answer to that is yes. And the second question...?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u19	When this directive is not applied in this adapted form, the Dutch Bank, our supervisor, has no right of veto. Am I right? So can pensions actually be transferred to other countries without these conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yes. In that sense, this is really a step forward. It gives everyone a lot of clarity. The response of the Pension Federation, for example, underlines this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u21	I would like to make a point of order, because I am trying to understand a little bit how this can be done, without the Chamber being informed well in advance and without it being discussed with the Chamber that it is in this way... No, Mr Omtzigt, calmly! This is not a reproach to the Chamber. I am actually saying this to the Secretary of State, because it is also about active information and the fact that information must be sent to the Chamber in good time in order to be able to discuss it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr President, we have asked for the texts for a very long time. We didn't get any texts for two years. After pressing very hard and after questions from colleagues Van Klaveren and Krol and yours truly we received a hundred pages of text last night at 19.00 hours. Whatever you think of the content, this is the way we deal with 1,200 billion euros of pension assets in the Netherlands. We have 24 hours to say yes or no to this. Now that you mention it, I would like to leave this particular case at the Bureau with the question of how the Bureau has dealt with the Court's right of information in the case of such very important European proposals. I am asking this question on behalf of the whole Chamber, both those who agree with it and those who disagree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u23	In addition, the text seems to have been known on 15 June. After that, the Secretary of State introduced a so-called silence procedure, whatever that, in good Dutch, may be. Then we do get a note on Friday. That's after the brexirefementum, when it should've come for it. Last night we do get 100 A4's with rags of lyrics. So support for what Mr Omtzigt is putting forward here. This must indeed be discussed in the Bureau. I believe that the SZW Secretary of State should make an attempt to answer all the questions that have just been asked, because she has not given any answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u24	I would like to underline this. We all have busy agendas. From the reception of documents so far, I have not been able to enter a moment in my agenda to look at the pieces, let alone take them thoroughly to me. That will apply to many colleagues. I think there is only one thing you can do as a Chamber, namely simply vote against this proposal. After all, we have not had enough time to take the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u25	Whether you are in favour of or against this directive, there is an additional guarantee that the Dutch Bank can veto. However, we have been talking about this in the Chamber for a year. I have to say that even when the Chamber was informed confidentially about the state of negotiations, some parties who are now making a whole number, perhaps due to lack of time, I did not see it present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u26	I wholeheartedly support Mr Omtzig's research. Last week we were not allowed to talk about it, because people were afraid it would affect the outcome of the referendum in England. I think it's weird that it has to go through now with steam and boiling water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u27	I did read it last night. I've thrown everything out of the way. It was 100 pages. It's irresponsible. The whole of Germany is excluded. We all didn't know anything about that. Support for Mr Omtzigt's request, because this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u28	We were indeed informed orally two weeks ago. However, that was at official level and without us having one text. Let me put it this way: I have been informed on a few points and on a few points I was just surprised at what I read. I read the pieces last night until 1:30 p.m. and I also asked lawyers to read with me until 1:30 p.m. That's what's important. I really want a letter from the Secretary of State for tonight, before she agrees, about what she thinks of the procedure. I would like to hear whether she really thinks that we can monitor her work in this way, also because she has been the chairman of the trilogue meetings in which these proposals have been made over the past six months. Now she herself must remain guilty of the question whether we should go to the Dutch or the Cypriot courts in a very specific case. Before then, we must already vote on the adoption of this directive. That can't be careful. I am therefore also making that supplementary request for a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u29	I'll see if the Secretary of State will respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u30	Let me get this straight. I briefed the Chamber last Friday on the main thrust of the outcome of the negotiations. The final text was not available at the time. That text was published yesterday and I immediately shared it with the Chamber. Of course, we also had an earlier exchange of views on the main points. I understand that this is complicated for the Chamber, but tomorrow is, of course, the time for Supreme. I also think it is very good that we are now exchanging views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u31	I have a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u32	Really rounding up, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u33	The Secretary of State himself wrote to the Chamber that all countries had had this document in a so-called "silence procedure" for a week. It could also have been kept confidential for a week. Even that didn't happen. I maintain my request for a letter, because we have not received any texts. Informing basically in a letter is not carefully handled. I also want to be able to check the legal hooks and eyes, such as who is allowed to give permission and why there may be an exception. I would like to receive both letters for tomorrow, because then a decision will be taken in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u34	If I have to explain the whole procedure, we'll be 15 minutes away. I have missed a number of elements among other spokesmen, such as the fact that we, as a Chamber together, have a long tradition of looking very critically at European directives on the pension system. We have also been briefed confidentially, which, I believe, is unique at a negotiating stage. After decision-making, the documents were made confidentially available to the Chamber, last Thursday, yes, Mr Omtzigt, and last night we received the documents. Sometimes that's hard work. I am quite willing, Mr Omtzigt, to listen, because every time you go to the microphone, you want an additional letter to ask for a letter explaining the procedure. For this is the supervisory task of the Chamber; I am sensitive to that. I am always very critical of that and my party is also very critical of that. But let it really just go over the route that has been walked. That route is very unfortunate. It is very unfortunate; I can see that. However, let us not go to the interrupting microphone every time to ask for an extra letter, because this is a misuse of the procedure and the power that we have here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u35	I think there has been enough talk about this. In my view, one point is important, namely the duty of the cabinet to inform the Chamber. It is included in Article 68 of the Constitution. A letter or note was also sent to the Chamber on this matter at my request. I think it would be a good idea for the Chamber to deal in plenary with such a letter from the cabinet, what is and what is not exchanged with the Chamber and what is the framework. Then it's obvious. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u37	Sorry, the Secretary of State has something else to say. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u38	It is, of course, a good thing to say what I think on behalf of the cabinet of the motion. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. Of course, I would be happy to send a letter to the Chamber about how we sailed together. But it is very important to underline that the Chamber is saying something about this motion today, because tomorrow, of course, there will be a finale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yeah, we're gonna vote on that motion later.
