ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u1	Today we are discussing the first term of office. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. A cabinet of VVD and Labour Party with two Social Democrats at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. That creates high expectations. I can be very brief about the Secretary of State. She's done almost nothing right. The vice prime minister did a few good things. First of all, a number of cleaners have been hired by the government. As we know, cleaners have been fighting for years for respect and security. Will the Minister make an effort to ensure that other governments themselves hire cleaners and will he ensure that the problem is resolved in foreign affairs? Secondly, the Minister has begun to abolish hunger wages for young people. There are thousands of young people who work, who do full-time work in shops, restaurants or elsewhere, but who still get half of what their colleagues deserve. The minister listened to Young & United, albeit half of it. Thirdly, the Minister's intention is to put an end to insecure work against a hunger wage. He came up with the Work and Security Act and the Job Plan, full of good intentions. Unfortunately, the practice is disappointing. I'll get back to you later. Finally, the Minister had good intentions for equal pay for men and women and increased paternity leave. Unfortunately, this enlargement will not take place until 2019. These four points are excellent for the Minister. But after four years of Rutte/Asscher's cabinet, nothing was done about one very big problem: inequality. Our land is divided into two: those who have it, and those who do not have it. It is fascinating how the Minister has left this great subject behind and when the Prime Minister's right hand has assisted in completing his mission: making his friends of the Quote 500 and multinational companies happy. With the March elections approaching and the new ambition of the Deputy Prime Minister to become the leader of his party, the Deputy Prime Minister warned last Saturday for the coming right spring. I'm afraid the Deputy Prime Minister has been repressing the last four Springs. A look at the Netherlands teaches us that the rich have become richer and the poor poorer and that multinationals hardly pay taxes while small businesses and the population bear the burden of the banks. Low incomes and middle incomes deteriorated between 2005 and 2014 in disposable income while the 20% rich, Rutte's and Asscher's friends, improved on it. A death home has been created for the social workshops, where people with disabilities simply worked with a decent contract for a decent wage. Unemployed people are punished instead of unemployment. The door to repression on the Dutch labour market has been opened wide open, with homicidal competition and unemployed people working without pay. In the care sector, 65,000 jobs have been removed while the summit, managers and health insurance companies have enriched. I would like to put a very important question to the Deputy Prime Minister. Does he think that hatred, division and extremism come out of the sky, that extreme right-wing and Islamists out of nothing win souls? Does the Minister know that the people have just been cheated, stripped and abandoned, that it stings when carers fill their pockets while your parents don't get the care they need and that it's hard to lose your job and then see a look of cheap labour being pulled open and forced to do the work of disabled people, but without pay? Does the Minister know that the queues at the food banks are growing and the Secretary of State is handing out crumbs, while with two jobs you just can't pay your care and your rent anymore? You've worked your whole life, you've helped build the country, and you've been cut short on your retirement year in, year out. You're young, you want some, you want everything, but you can't do anything because of those stupid zero-hour contracts. Does the Minister know that there's another way to do it and that there's another way to do it? Does the Minister recognize his responsibility in this cabinet? Does the Minister, responsible for income policy in the Netherlands and for purchasing power, consider that there has been fair sharing in recent years? Poverty has grown, as has the number of millionaires. The rents have increased by 28%, the own risk is €385, non-working people are treated as criminals and their incomes have been substantially reduced. How does the Minister look back on this? The money has flowed from poor to rich, while the people with the low and middle incomes got less to spend. If it's up to us, if it's up to the SP, we're gonna change this over the next few years. We are going to increase the legal minimum wage and related benefits by 10%, so that people get air, so that people are going to spend, so that SMEs have something to do with it, so that our economy can get back on track. How does the Minister view these plans? Does he see that change? Do you think he's behind that? The pay gap between the top of industry and the rest of the workforce has grown. Why did the Minister look away from this? Is the Minister prepared to give employees control and promote higher wages for employees? How is it that those who earn the least got the least in recent years? We have 500,000 working poor people in our country, sometimes with two or three jobs. Where is this cabinet's plan for this group of people? I can write a book on inequality, but a child package for all children living in poverty in the Netherlands is what I ask these rulers for next year. No bullshit about municipalities having to take care of it all. No, just do it. Take care of it! It's important enough. It's about our childhood. It's our future. It's our childhood, sometimes cold, ashamed, hungry to go to school. In 2002, 367,000 children lived in poverty in the Netherlands. I know, it's just statistics, but still. It's about huge numbers. By way of a symbol, we handed over 6,000 empty children's shoes to the Minister on Sinterklaas Day 2012. The Minister promised to get rid of the slippers for children in poverty in the Netherlands. The result is that 421,000 children are now living in poverty. And, Mr. Chairman, do you know what the wretched thing is? It is precisely these families that are caught by the Secretary of State by social insecurity policy, with the cost sharing standard. Do you live together and take care of each other? Wrong. You're gonna get a fine from this duo. You live together, you take care of each other, and you get a fine. The Labour Party promised to take the discount off the table for AOW'ers. There is a delay until 2019. I would ask the directors to settle this before they leave. And otherwise, of course, we're going to introduce it again. Tens of thousands of people with welfare benefits, WIA or Wajong benefits are already being cut. That's gonna lead to pure poverty. That's also apparent from research. The SP makes a proposal to cancel this discount for next year. On behalf of all those people who are begging to do this, do it anyway, as a final act. Let's look at what the minister stands for even more: just good work, just a fair wage. When I look at the discussion, there is a very contrast with a few years ago. I remember the discussions with former Social Affairs Minister Donner in 2008. We would have a huge shortage of employees in 2016, according to the Bakker Committee who had calculated how it would be on the labour market. All very wise people. Yeah, yeah, it wasn't a shortage of jobs, it was a shortage of employees. We would now have a shortage of 375 000 workers and 700,000 by 2040. They were worthless predictions on the basis of which this Secretary of State convinced the Workers' Party at the time to raise the AOW age. The reality is that we have a huge shortage of just good jobs, of fair jobs with an income you can live on. Almost 1.5 million people are looking for work, more work, good work and honest work. Young people and the less educated in particular suffer from precarious work, from poor contracts, from low wages. This is not a modernity, but a backwardness which is being pushed down our throats by neoliberal politicians and European directives. It is a reality that we must change for the sake of man and society, a policy that we must oppose. Fortunately, the Minister acknowledges that, too. With the Work and Security Act, more stable and fair jobs had to be created. We were hopeful, but we saw that the law is incomplete. If the Minister had listened to the SP and made flex more expensive and probably cheaper, then employers would hire employees much more often after two years. The vice prime minister actually wants it, he says in an interview. Then why doesn't he? Is the Minister prepared to ban zero-hour contracts? Payroll companies are used as a means to avoid employers' responsibilities. Workers are the victims of this. Is the Minister prepared to ban payroll constructions, in accordance with a motion by my colleague Ulenbelt with Mrs Hamer? All this isn't enough. I believe that the Minister should also stand up much more for important industries. We've been to Schiphol Airport a few times. There's constant contact. Security guards, traders and KLM personnel are on their gums because they have to compete in murderous competition and race down ever more uncertain contracts, changing contracts and low wages. The Minister's getting away with it a little easy. Is he going to make demands from the government together with the Minister of Finance as an important shareholder, so that employees are fairly rewarded? Is the Minister prepared to stop the race to the bottom by pulling Infrastructure and Environment together to protect aviation from dumping contracts? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Then there are the Minister's infamous job plans. Can I ask the Minister exactly how many jobs these job plans have created? The large capital not only absorbs an increasing proportion of profits, but also shifts with workers, depending on how convenient it is. The neoliberals, with the VVD first, exploit workers in European countries and turn them against each other. A gigantic impoverishment policy touches the working class in the heart. The workers bear the uncertainty and austerity; the ruins caused by banks, multinationals and millionaires. During his election campaign, you will not have missed the fact that it is going on, Mr President, the Minister preaches about exploitation and repression by labour migration. He promised the Chamber that he would come forward with proposals for national measures. We haven't seen them. Why not? Three years ago, in an article of August 2013, the Minister of Social Affairs was rightly alarmist. He described the state of the EU as code orange. He said the dikes are breaking up. The Minister was right to use big words. According to him it was code orange, but we can see that after four years Asscher code is red. The party of neoliberals and employers continues. A rapidly growing group of employees is underpaid, exploited, competed away and constantly in a flex contract read: an insecure contract put in place. Over 3 million people now work as zzp'er/flexworker. Employers do all kinds of tricks to get cheaper staff from Central and Eastern Europe and play people against each other, so as to be as cheap as possible. With these constructions, the Netherlands is estimated to miss EUR 1.5 billion in tax and premium revenues. At the same time, workers lose their jobs and neighbourhoods and villages are under pressure because migrant workers are housed in poor conditions and do not speak the language. In this respect, little has changed after 40 years of labour migration. In order to stop the power of temporary employment agencies and crooked employers and to break the spiral of repression, exploitation and underpayment, we believe that the Minister should not wait until the next elections, but should work very hard in the coming months. Minister, put an end to the free movement of workers. Get to work on this this week. Is the Deputy Prime Minister ready to argue for the reintroduction of employment permits now? Displacement, exploitation and competition on working conditions can then be avoided. Is the Minister prepared to eradicate malicious temporary employment agencies by introducing a licensing system? A gross violation of the law or multiple violations of the law means you've lost your license. Is the Minister prepared to increase the number of inspectors at the Labour Inspectorate and give the Labour Inspectorate the power to impose maximum fines if an employer or client fails to comply with equal pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u3	We hear the SP making a plea here to stop labour migration. No more workers from Eastern Europe here. My question to the SP is: who is going to pick all these tomatoes from the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u4	I know that the VVD is the cause of the disasters we are seeing in Europe today. The VVD is addicted to cheap staff. We do not want to make it impossible for people to be free, quite the contrary. We want to prevent people from being set up against each other out of unfreedom, from having to deal with exploitation and from being housed in small houses in the old urban areas, which have been abandoned by the VVD. In other words, Mr Van 't Wout, there are hundreds of thousands of people who want to do the job, but then the employer must first learn that there should be a fair reward for it. Not only millionaires need money to live on, the ordinary man, the ordinary worker, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u5	Mrs Karabulut is starting to throw tomatoes, but that does not solve the problem. In the area where I live there are many strawberry growers, asparagus growers and so on. If those Poles don't work there anymore, nobody will come, because Dutch people don't want to work there. They're too bad to do that. Mrs Karabulut does not achieve that these Dutch people are going to work, but that these companies will disappear and the Poles will no longer have work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u6	Mr. Van 't Wout lives in a parallel universe in that respect. They are allowed to come from us, but on the basis of a permit, so that we do not like to do something the VVD does, but we can prevent exploitation and control the housing. We want to correct all the mistakes the VVD makes in integration, we want to put our house in order. If the VVD is willing to provide a little decent reward together with the employers, then there are a lot of Dutch people who like to do that work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u7	I suggest you continue with your speech. We have not agreed on any interruptions and the number of questions, but I am trying to keep the interruptions as limited as possible. Mr Van 't Wout has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u8	Just for a moment, because I can't get an answer to my question. You're killing a very large branch in the Netherlands, which is the result of what the SP is going to do. I conclude that here and the SP has no answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u9	What I would very much like to eradicate is exploitation. I would very much like to see the VVD on my side in the fight for decent reward, not only for top managers and for people who earn their money, but also for those who simply work with their hands and do the work that we all depend on, but who do not have the right reward. That's what I'd like to do. I'm moving on, because we're not there yet. Is the Deputy Prime Minister also prepared to prevent tying when entering into employment contracts such as housing and health insurance? Is the Deputy Prime Minister prepared to oblige employers to learn the Dutch language? That is very important to be able to function. This must be done under working time, of course, and at the employer's expense. Finally, is the Deputy Prime Minister prepared to make impossible constructions where taxes and social security contributions can be paid in the country of origin rather than in the country where someone works? Of course, there's the earning model Mr. Van 't Wout loves so much. From the weekend or last week, the truck drivers were back on the news. We had a round table on this subject at the initiative of my colleague Mr Ulenbelt. I have a few questions for the Deputy Prime Minister, apart from the debate we are still having on this subject. Can the Deputy Prime Minister put an end to the inhumane conditions of lorry drivers who are forced to spend the weekend in parking spaces? I already mentioned it: language is crucial to get to know each other, to speak together and to live together. How, then, can I ask the Deputy Prime Minister that there are still hundreds of thousands of people who want the language but cannot learn it? How is it that market forces have not been demolished from integration education? Many people feel excluded because, whatever they do, they are not seen as full-fledged. With a number of young students I talked about their experiences in starting life. They are still sometimes refused because of their origin or colour. Recently Gamze was refused at Pathé, and a gay boy was denied an internship at a farm because he has a friend instead of a girlfriend. What about last weekend's anti-Semitism report when a swastika was seen scratching a Jewish car? They're after us, the woman said. Already in 2013, we made concrete proposals to give the Labour Inspectorate more powers to act against labour market discrimination, to detect and fine companies, and to make a blacklist. Older people are sick of it. Young people are sick of it. We're tired of it. How many discriminatory companies have been dealt with by the Minister? Kabinets have looked away from segregation and ghetto formation for decades to this day, including this cabinet. It is not for nothing that the Prime Minister called integration policy a failure. I've never been so in agreement with this man. What about our initiative, supported by a majority in parliament, to come up with proposals against segregation and ghetto formation? Unfortunately, we have extremists who are piercing the waves of uncertainty and bad government policy win souls for very bad ideas. Right extremists and Islamists are trying to undermine our fundamental freedoms. Not only must we fight this together, but we must also and above all prevent the government from facilitating these organisations. Where is the list of Salafist organizations, I ask the Minister? In what way will the Deputy Prime Minister implement the wish of the majority of the Chamber not to facilitate these organisations as a government? Together with many parties, we have made proposals to stop funding prayer houses in the Netherlands by the Gulf States and abroad. These countries are exporting very bad ideas and everyone here is tired of it, including the mosques themselves. I admit it's a difficult matter. We've been working on it for years. I think there are now ten proposals. Sunday night, a note came in. The intention is to come up with something. Is the friendship with the Gulf States a priority for living together here in the Netherlands? I'd like a response. The participatory society was introduced by our King in 2013. It sounds nice, but this concept is now a symbol for a lot of people for what is wrong in this society. With the Participation Act, Secretary of State Klijnsma actually says: "Find out." The Participation Act is a total humiliation of job seekers. The rules are based on mistrust and complete bureaucracy. The cabinet gives a lot of people social uncertainty instead of security. That law needs to be kicked. The Secretary of State came up with a death home for social services. These organisations are now millions short. There is great uncertainty about the future, while unemployment under the disabled has grown significantly. We are going to stop the demolition of social services and the wage drop for disabled people. It's in our election program. There's something very wrong with this law. Tens of thousands of people have to work without pay. There is displacement of jobs in the cleaning sector and care. There is humiliation of job seekers and undermining the statutory minimum wage and collective wage in the postal, cleaning, care and even social employment sectors. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister: why has he allowed these forms of modern slavery all these years? It's time for real fair jobs. We will make a proposal which will create 25,000 full-time paid jobs next year for people who have been on welfare for a very long time. I assume that the Deputy Prime Minister agrees with the PvdA programme, wherever it is, and will therefore embrace this proposal. I'd like a response. Young people, especially young people with disabilities, fall between shore and ship, according to the inspection SZW. As far as we are concerned, any young person with a disability should have the right and receive an expert job coach, just support on their way to training and work. That is not the case now or only for a short time. The quality of municipalities is also very different. Does the Secretary of State share our view that quality requirements should be agreed for job coaching by municipalities so that only recognised job coaches can be employed? Does he share our view that young people, regardless of the municipality where they live, should also be entitled to this? From young to old. There's a lot to do, but according to the definitions, most of the elderly today aren't poor, they're very happy and they shouldn't be whining. However, they are impoverished. The certainty that we want to provide to older people has turned into uncertainty. Many have suffered for decades from not compensating for the price increases in their pensions. Purchasing power reductions of 10% are no exception. Some funds even reduced pensions. Still, the dark clouds of shortening the pension are hanging over our country. Old age and uncertainty about income have become synonyms. The Secretary of State has made it this far. If a new word is made in response to your comment and if that word ends in 2014 as second to the Word of the Year, you have achieved an achievement. It's a failure. It's a failure. It's a failure. Of course I'm talking about "mosgarden socialism." What did the Secretary of State learn from that? Will it prevent the reduction of pensions next year? Older young people are also uncertain about the future. During the race they see the finish moving further and further. Raising the AOW age and then accelerating the increase brings with it a lot of problems. Average life expectancy is rising more rapidly than the expected healthy years of life. Mind you, we're talking averages. The socio-economic health disparities are large. More and more people will not be able to reach the AOW age. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Is it prepared to let go of the link to average life expectancy and to take account of the heavy professions and health inequalities? A large group of people assumed that they would receive the AOW benefit at the age of 65. They are in private disability insurance or early retirement schemes which end in the 65th year. We just had the military. These people fall into a 65-plus hole after they have served the land, among others they. That's a hole that's getting bigger and bigger. After a great deal of pressure and commitment from an action group led by my colleague Ulenbelt, the Secretary of State has established a bridging arrangement. However, it is hardly used. That makes sense, because it's a mess. The income after 65 is added to the social minimum in this scheme. That's not a bridge for loss of AOW, it's immersion in poverty. Does the Secretary of State intend to amend the scheme in such a way that it becomes a serious bridge, a scheme whereby people who have already stopped working for their 65th and do not have benefits that continue until the age of AOW are granted a benefit at the level of the AOW? From young to old, the circle is round again. You, my colleagues and the people at home are free to judge the words and actions of these rulers. The Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, conducts a value-driven policy. He analyzes and interprets, and he often says beautiful things. But in the end it's about changing the world and the Netherlands. Finally, I have something I would like to hand over to the directors, through the chairman. I was busy preparing this debate. Of course you do not just do that, but with colleagues, employees and many others. The people at home have also responded and masse to a call. It was just a little too many questions to include in my contribution. I would like them answered in writing. I think people will appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u10	It is an interesting and mysterious document that is being handed over here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u11	I would very much like to share that with you, Mr Heerma. Perhaps there are some interesting questions in front of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u12	I'm not that fast, Mrs. Karabulut. However, I am curious if you can tell me which questions you received in the anthology you received most frequently, I saw your call yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u13	I found the total confusion as to why the Secretary of State, but also the Minister, treats people, people looking for jobs and people with disabilities in such a way. People were wondering why, so close to the elections, attention finally came back to jobs and just good jobs. So there was not a very great satisfaction. The most beautiful question that has been asked is whether the two leaders present here will please not return to Social Affairs. But the rulers will probably judge that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u14	Well, what a cheerful start to the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget that was, Mr President. You'd almost think we were in Venezuela. That country, according to the SP, was an example of how to take care of business up to three years ago. Anyway, I'm gonna go see if we can bring the atmosphere back a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u15	Do your best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u16	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I will say a number of things about matters that are more traditional in Social Affairs. My colleague, Mr Azmani, will then address everything related to the issue of integration. In preparing this debate, I had to remember two meetings I had last summer. I think the first one was somewhere in August. It was a very nice summer night. I was a guest at the business association in my hometown that night. Perhaps you know, Mr. President, that a few years ago I made the switch from the big city to a small village in the south of the country. That's very good, I still say. So I was a guest of that village's business association. There was a beautiful mixed company. There were starters, there were restaurant owners, there was someone who had two clothing stores, there was a gardener, there was a owner of a campsite. These are all of those real entrepreneurs, real SMEs, SMEs who play such an important role in our country. As a son, brother-in-law, brother and friend of entrepreneurs, I greatly appreciate that role. A few years ago, when I was a Member of Parliament, I was also once at a meeting of these entrepreneurial associations. Clearly, something had changed in comparison to that time. There was optimism in the air again, and that was not only due to the beautiful weather. Because almost everyone I spoke to indicated that it was finally getting better, that there was more work, that the order book was a bit fuller again. I heard there was more clothing being sold and it was more crowded in the shops. I heard more houses were being built, so construction workers and gardeners had full agendas. I heard people went on vacation again, so the campsite was better filled. And problems with the seasonal work were solved, of course. Of course it was far from everyone hosanna, but in general it was good to notice that our country is getting better again. Because it is, among other things, this type of entrepreneurs who have dragged the Netherlands through the crisis. Despite very severe economic downturns in recent years, these entrepreneurs continued to work hard and show stubborn optimism to keep their shop, business or restaurant running. But if I spoke to them longer, I'd hear some concerns too. Especially people with companies like this, have a special relationship with their employees. It is often small businesses where people not only see and encounter each other during work on the work floor, but also in their leisure time. People have been working for such a company for so long that it almost feels like family. Because that is how the reality is happy with a lot of companies. The image of the shop owner, garage owner, restaurant operator as someone who only has euro signs in his eyes and doesn't care about his staff is complete nonsense. Entrepreneurs aren't crooks who rub their hands in the morning thinking about how to make their staff miserable again today. But entrepreneurs are people who work at their own risk every day. I remember that very well from my childhood. On the one hand, you realize that you are responsible for the staff and the future of the case, and on the other hand, you realize that they will come to you to clean out the living room if things really go wrong. These are not to be underestimated responsibilities that every entrepreneur carries with him every day. This concern has increased in recent years. Now that things were getting better, the entrepreneurs at this meeting thought again about hiring new people into their company. They all struggled with that. Of almost everyone you spoke to, the conclusion was in any case: I am not going to employ people anymore. The accumulation of risks, costs and bureaucracy is simply becoming too much for them. That has nothing to do with an organized race to the bottom or a flex addiction, but with concerns that we need to take seriously. A small entrepreneur said to me the other day: hiring staff should be a party, because that means that your business is going well; now you're putting it off as long as possible or you're going to look for other forms, because it just can't be carried. That was the first meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u17	I know a lot about the story of the VVD, but I have heard other sounds from entrepreneurs about that last point. They have a family business or its SMEs and indicate that they would indeed like to hire people. They dare not only because of the costs, responsibilities and risks, but also because competitors make the same work through flex,zzp or payroll 10%, 20%, 30% cheaper. Is there, therefore, in the labour market just as separate from the "flex addiction" label, from which the VVD does not actually compete? Do flex constructions, for example, make it impossible for bona fide entrepreneurs, family businesses and SMEs to do their job properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u18	That was exactly my argument: people are not looking for forms other than the traditional permanent contract for nothing. That is in their eyes that there are too many costs, risks and so on in the fixed contract. By the way, of course, it is not always the case that another model is cheaper. You will also have to deal with your intermediary if you are working with a payroll or temp construction. But the reason why entrepreneurs make so much use of it is because I agree with Mr Heerma that the accumulation of the fixed contract is simply too much for them. I will tell you later what we have done about it, but I think we should do more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u19	Is the problem for the VVD only due to the cost of the fixed contract or, as the CPB pointed out a few weeks ago, is it also due to the fact that there are flexible variants that are too attractive and too cheap and offer too little protection to employees? The CPB indicated that the lusts and burdens of this kind of flexible employment relationship are not fairly divided into our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u20	Employers do not use these schemes because they want to bully their employees. They do so because the alternative of permanent employment in their experience is too expensive and too risky and involves too much bureaucracy. I think we should look for new avenues, with the main line of making the employership attractive again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u21	I very much agree with Mr Van 't Wout that we need to look for new ways, but I am standing here because Mr Van 't Wout has been part of this cabinet for at least four years. If you look at the score of the Work and Security Act, according to Mr Van 't Wout himself, it has to be erased and the fact that nothing has been done about the payment of wages in the event of illness, then Mr Van 't Wout must be very disappointed at what has been achieved in this area over the past four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u22	I will come to exactly this point in a moment, if Mr Van Weyenberg agrees. It's a little further up in my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u23	He'll come back to it, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u24	Yeah, that's fine, but we're talking about the Work and Security Act right now. Of these, Mr. Van 't Wout said in the newspaper: "gum and start over." Last year, Mr Mulder gave the Minister an incompetence on the interim report. Well, if my daughter gets the word that she needs to erase her answer, it's usually not a good answer. Then what is the report rate given by Mr Van 't Wout for the final year of Minister Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u25	My predecessor gave me a very thin transfer file, with one A4'. There was actually only one opinion on it: don't give out report figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u26	That's kind of lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u27	He will come back to that other point, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u28	This is the biggest government party that says in the paper: "Gumbling out that law."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u29	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u30	Last year Mr. Mulder was flogged back a bit, but Mr. Van 't Wout is standing for his words in the newspaper, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u31	Again, I'll come back to this in a moment. So I'll tell you what we did. I'll give you the short variant. We're not alone in a coalition. That means, at the end of such a coalition, that the world is never finished, that all the problems will never be solved and also, of course, that all the VVD wishes have been realized. But I'll come back to that in a little bit more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u32	Mr. Van 't Wout just said that a fixed contract for employers is too expensive. I think it is, compared to all flex forms of contracts. Yes, they are much cheaper. That is why employers choose to do so much easier. Wouldn't it make much more sense, then, to look at how we can deal with fixed and flex prices, the burdens employers have to pay, and make sure that the flex side is more expensive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u33	In my opinion, it is a major challenge in the Netherlands that labour is relatively expensive. There is also a big difference between what the employer pays and what the employee ultimately pays in his wallet. In my opinion, the route should be much more to ensure, through relief of charges, that on the one hand the employership becomes cheaper and, on the other hand, people are left with more in their pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u34	Making it cheaper, lowering employers' burdens on labour, has been a Green Left proposal for a long time. So I totally agree with that. But my question was about flex forms of work. I suppose the VVD also thinks that people are entitled to a little more certainty. Mr Van 't Wout often talks about his family, about that other people also think it is important to have some certainty. Then I assume that the VVD also thinks that those assurances should be available to everyone. If we can achieve this by taking measures to reduce the employer's burden and make flex more expensive, would that be a very logical attitude, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u35	I think we should focus on making labour cheaper. The fixed contract contains too many things that make it unattractive for employers. I do not see much benefit in making other forms more expensive, because there will always be a need for flexible work. In fact, I think we'll have a lot more different forms of contracts in ten years' time. I'll come back to that in a moment, because I wasn't until my first summer memory. In there, you need to make sure that you're more detached from that contract form that people can build up a normal life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u36	Mr President, I am extremely pleased that Mr Van 't Wout is looking for 'new roads'. You won't be surprised. Like him and everyone else, of course, I also speak to many entrepreneurs, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the meetings that I remember yesterday was the meeting at the annual meeting of the Federation of Contractors, where I was almost jumped by entrepreneurs who asked me if Mr Zijlstra, the chairman of the VVD group, had gone mad. I said, what do you mean? They referred to a literal quote by Mr Van 't Wout's group chairman: I want everyone to become morezzp's in this country. Those SMEs were angry and concerned, because they wanted to be a permanent labour force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u37	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u38	My question is how does Mr Van 't Wout's group chairman's call for everyone to become zzp's voice in his appeal to return to a stable labour force?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u39	If you take a sentence out of the context of a whole speech, I imagine you'll get questions like that. My group chairman, I think a year and a half ago, once gave a very nice speech at a VVD conference, in which he opposed the atmosphere that was emerging as if allzzp'ers were a problem and in which he praised the entrepreneurship of thezzp'ers. You need to see that sentence in context. I would like everyone to become morezzp and everyone in the Netherlands, whether you work in the government, in education or in business, has such an entrepreneurial attitude as almost allzzp'ers have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u40	You can arrive anywhere with contexts, but at some point the statement is: I want everyone to be more zpp's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u41	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u42	SMEs want good, stable labour. That is the quality of SMEs. That's what separates you. You can't make the statement: I prefer that everyone getszzp'er?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u43	You can't just take sentences out of their context. Nice try, but that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u44	Does Mr Van 't Wout recognise that SMEs and the economy with the VVD and with this Rutte/Asscher cabinet have suffered a huge blow, which has impoverished the middle class and the people with lower incomes and has only benefited his Quote 500 friends from this VVD policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u45	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u46	Then it's a lot worse than I thought. How is it that the VVD, which claims to be a popular party, causes 80% of Dutch people to decline and only 20% to improve? How is it that the VVD says it will distribute €1,000 to all Dutch people, but then helps the multinationals with tax avoidance...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u47	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u48	... keeps people in their pockets less and less, which is bad for SMEs...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u49	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u50	... and with that pushes the economy into a slump? Is that what the VVD stands for? Does she stand alone for the 20% elite and can the rest choke?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u51	Mrs Karabulut was just talking about a parallel universe, but I have the impression that Mrs Karabulut really lives in a different country than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u52	Mrs Karabulut, we are really trying to do it in two: a question and a follow-up question. This question has already been asked in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u53	It is a very serious question, not least because the VVD is constantly talking about the economy and SMEs, while it is constantly abandoning the people of SMEs. I would like to respond to the economic facts that we owe to the VVD, namely a massive impoverishment, a narrow SME and 77.000 additional people in the assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u54	I will be speaking in a moment about the results of four years of this cabinet. As I just said, it wasn't just cozy because of the nice weather at that association. Those people see very well, and are very happy that we are leaving the crisis one step at a time and that they do not live in Venezuela. My second meeting last summer took place here in the Chamberhouse. A group of people came to visit. Those weren't all VVD members, they were just interested citizens. They came here to talk about the subject of "work." I don't think it was a coincidence that that group was mostly made up of people over 50 who lost their jobs. They were people who worked hard their whole lives, who have built up a beautiful existence and who are proud of what they have achieved. But this group of people, I think we all know the stories, and unfortunately, we are now on the sidelines, and it is not possible to get back to work, as much as they would like. Of course, these people want to get back to work for financial reasons, but most of the time there is something much deeper behind it. What came out most strongly was that they said: now that I no longer have a job, I also feel that I am not fully part of it anymore. One person said: I don't really feel like going to my family's birthday parties anymore, because I feel so bad when all the other people are talking about what they did at work that week and then I have nothing to say when they ask me what I'm doing. For me, these two encounters outline in a nutshell the tasks ahead of us. On the one hand, we are dealing with positive entrepreneurs who would like to help people get back to work, but on the other hand, there is a group of people who, despite enormous efforts, are difficult to get to work, when we can use their knowledge and experience so well. So there's still a lot to do, but let's not forget where we're from. I'm thinking back to what we were like four years ago. A rising unemployment. Public finances that were completely out of control. A system of care, social security and old age provision which was unsustainable in the future and which threatened to become an irresponsible legacy of our children. The biggest economic and financial crisis since the 1930s. On top of that, we were faced with a migration crisis. And all this in a politically fragmented landscape and a coalition of two parties that are not naturally close to each other, to express it with caution. Fortunately, our country has proven to have a great deal of resilience. So many Dutch people who stubbornly put their shoulders underneath and when things got worse, just toothed in. We have also tried to do this here in the Chamber by making difficult decisions, by looking for support, inside and outside the Chamber, by almost every day stepping over our own shadows and always looking at what can be achieved together instead of wallowing in one's own even or screaming and complaining along the sidelines. That is exactly what I have been working for over the past year. It is no secret that the parties in this coalition have very different views on many issues, on social affairs and the labour market, probably not the least. Since March, I have been allowed to deal with this subject after education, care and Europe, and I do so with a great deal of passion. From day one, we sat down, with the Labour Party, with the Minister and in parallel with the social partners. That wasn't easy. I fear that in spring I have seen Minister Asscher more often than my own wife, and they both did not like it. At least that's what I still hope for as far as my wife is concerned. It wasn't always fun, but mostly complicated and heavy. There were two opposing views against each other. However, we did do what I am in politics for: trying to get things done, solving problems, no matter how big the difference of opinion with your partner is. Eventually, it did. I regard the package of measures we agreed on in April as an important step in the right direction. This means, among other things, that we take care of entrepreneurs around transition compensation in the event of imminent bankruptcy or cessation due to retirement, and we reduce the burden of transition compensation in the event of long-term illness and disability, as well as the bureaucracy surrounding reintegration in the event of incapacity for work. We have also been able to provide a solution to the seasonal work. A solution acceptable to the VVD was also found to the wish of the Labour Party in particular to do something about the minimum wage for young people. A number of issues have now been settled and some of them will even be dealt with here in the coming weeks and months. Are all problems solved for the VVD? Have all our ideals become reality? No, of course not. We do not rule this country alone, but we have fought to make things better step by step. But, like I said, we're not here yet. As far as we are concerned, the biggest task for the coming years is for everyone to feel that we have put the crisis behind us, that the entrepreneur is happy again when someone is employed, that the 50-pluser can get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u55	One major problem in this labour market with jobs and jobs is that there are not enough jobs and there is also a great deal of unfair pay. Is the VVD Group in favour of stopping the free movement of workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u56	I think Mrs Karabulut could have concluded from my interrupting earlier that I am not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u57	So what's this whole VVD story about? They're all tear-making beautiful stories. You're saying that people need to get to work and that so many people are on the sidelines. Then why have you been responsible for opening up these borders, causing a massive displacement and exploitation? Are you looking away from all this trouble right now? Why are you not man enough to regulate this migration also for the sake of the workers and the non-working people, namely by preventing displacement and simply collecting 1.5 billion in taxes that we miss, so that we can pump them back into decent jobs? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u58	I have just given an example of the important glass and horticulture sector in the Netherlands. This is an incredibly important sector, which contributes a great deal to our economic growth. Then you can stop the Poles, but the Dutch won't come. What is more, this sector now has another problem: Poland is not going to be able to do so, and there is a risk that there will be a shortage of labour. It is also good to stick to the facts and figures. If Mrs Karabulut's statement is correct that there will be higher unemployment if there is additional labour supply, women's empathy and the increase in the number of women who have started working over the past two decades should have led to massive unemployment. So that's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u59	Please continue. Mrs. Karabulut, we've just agreed...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u60	Interrupts in two?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u61	Yeah, in twos. You can always come back. This is not an invitation to interrupt too often, but you will still have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u62	We want to take away the concerns of those entrepreneurs and those 50-plussers, as well as the uncertainty of my parents' generation, who wonder how they are doing with their well-earned pension, but also the uncertainty of my peers, who sometimes wonder what remains for them as an old age provision. Not least, we should be concerned about the generation of mine and our children, who, fortunately, are not concerned with this issue at all, but who will be affected by the decisions we are taking now. There is a major issue on the table for the coming years. How do we connect the interests of these different generations? How do we make sure the corner butcher gets cheerful instead of depressed when he needs extra staff? How do we ensure that everyone in the Netherlands, regardless of their contract form, can build a normal life with hard work? As far as the VVD is concerned, this means that we will have to reform the labour market further in the coming years. We have to make sure that education does not end on your 18th, that you get more control over your own pension, that without a traditional fixed contract it becomes easier to get a mortgage and that the shopkeeper as a sponsor and supporter can just enjoy his football club on Saturday instead of constantly worrying about the tough Saturday amateur tackles on his youngest employee. Society and the economy are changing at a rapid pace. We shouldn't see that as a threat, but as an opportunity. This cabinet has laid a solid foundation for dealing with these changes. On the drawing board of the next cabinet, we need to ensure that, as far as we are concerned, heavy burden reliefs will reduce the cost of leaving employees in their pockets and labour, that SMEs will be more relieved of pay in case of illness, and that the way in which you enter into a relationship as an employee and employer is not prescribed by bodies on which you have no influence, but by doing justice to the specific situation of the employee and the company he works for. After all, a multinational company in Amsterdam is quite different from a family business in Hoeven, even though they are in the same industry. On the drawing table for the coming years, we also design a system in which it is self-evident to continue working on your own development. On that drawing table, a labour market needs to be created where not your age but your talent and your commitment are leading and where not the laws but the effects in society are an end in themselves. My father began his working life as a landscaper; now it may be clear why I always bring in the metaphor of the drawing table. That's what it looked like at our house, in the attic. From there, he worked. As a child I was always very impressed with those beautiful large tables that were there, on which my father was working with gums to erase ideas that didn't work out well and with ink pens to make sketches definitive. When I was a kid, I liked to watch that. The best part was when the sun broke through in the attic. Then it got very warm and danced the dust of hundreds of drawing rolls through the air, mixed with the smoke of daddy's shag; yes, shag was still normal back then. That's where the great ideas came from. As far as I am concerned, that is exactly the task we have ahead of us for the years to come. Changes in society traditionally offer our country a chance to make something beautiful. I'm sure of it. As far as the VVD is concerned, apart from this major task, we will continue to work in the months to come until the elections to protect and further develop, step by step, the strong base we have created in our country in recent years. That's why I'm zooming in a little bit more on the 2017 budget. That's pretty much the last part of my speech with some questions, ideas, wishes and plans. The first is opportunities for work that we're leaving behind. But I do not think Mr Van Weyenberg wants to react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u63	Mr Van 't Wout is about to start with a number of specific points, but I am still looking for his appreciation for the past four years. He did something that my colleague Paul van Meenen calls "an Asschertje" nowadays: sketching very nice views, making you almost forget that the person who does it has been about it for four years. I'm still looking. I can very much agree with many of the words Mr Van 't Wout said. But look at the Work and Security Act, which Mr Van 't Wout wants to gamble out, and at the payment of wages in the event of illness, in which unfortunately we haven't done anything for four years, then the conclusion is that Mr Van 't Wout simply finds policy in these areas to fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u64	If someone's gonna compare you to Asscher, you're not gonna score points in the VVD. I must put that right with Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u65	It can also be seen as a compliment by Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u66	Yeah, it could be, too. Who knows? But I didn't mean to! Anyway... I have just outlined exactly what we have done as a cabinet in recent years, and very often, in various areas I have been working on, with the active support of D66. I appreciate that very much. I'm proud to see where we were four years ago and where we're now. If I had said that I think everything that is now government policy is brilliant, I would have written the coalition agreement in our election programme, at least our Members would have done so. Of course it isn't. We didn't realize everything we wanted. And the Work and Security Act (Wwz) wasn't exactly something we had immediately come up with. I do not need to explain to Mr Van Weyenberg the history of that law; he was more involved in it than I am. You can say all the time: I don't like it at all. I said last year: we are in reality today, I want to get things done and I think it is important that employers are relieved. We all arranged that in April. Now we go into the election with the story of the VVD. If it's up to us, we're going to look much wider at the labour market. As far as we are concerned, the WWz in its present form is not part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u67	The D66 Group has indeed done business with the cabinet. We also felt the responsibility deep in the crisis. But even if you're partly responsible for it, you have to look critically at whether it worked. I admit it: the Work and Security Act wasn't D66's greatest victory either. Now that I see that the number of flex contracts is increasing six times faster than the number of permanent jobs and that the proportion of permanent jobs is decreasing, I note that it has failed. Mr. Van 't Wout wants to get rid of that law. Then my conclusion is that Mr Van 't Wout also wants to get rid of the Wwz.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u68	If I thought of anything brilliant, I wouldn't go for it. That sounds pretty clear to me. I come to today's budget. Firstly, I would like to say a few things about job opportunities. This is becoming an increasingly important issue especially now that the labour market is re-entering. We receive many complaints from both employers and employees about how difficult it is to bring them together. I'm not the only one in there, I'm afraid. We're really gonna leave opportunities here. The inspection report, "Working on the... execution," is not a cheerful booklet. I also recognize it from conversations with employers. Last time I spoke to a company, a call centre for charities; how beautiful can you get it? That grew and needed people. It called the UWV and just didn't get a response there. I don't want to bashen the UWV here, because I know there's a lot of work going on there, but of course this can't be done. We have discussed examples before, also in AO's, where a bit of feeling was said, for example, about shipbuilding: we all do not really like that at all. I'm sorry, but those are just nice jobs that people want to go to. Is the Minister prepared to give an impetus to this? On the other hand, in this summer's conversation in the Chamber, I also received many complaints from people who attended the UWV courses and had the idea: I am not taken seriously at all here and this is not going to help me any further. I ask the Minister: please take a good look not only at the quality of all those courses and training courses, but also at those you offer them to. A highly-educated ICT professional who is required to do a "telephone recording" course will not get you to work; that will only demotivate you in this way. Or take the Sectoral Plan Frontierless Works, which seems so difficult to get off the ground. What's the Minister gonna do to pull this off? Is he also willing to take a look at the conditions? Is he willing to look at how we can make more use of knowledge and expertise from the private mediation sector in helping people to work? The candidate explorer seems to be a good means of unlocking job seeker profiles, but how do we ensure that the municipalities will actually fill all these profiles and not all of them will do it in their own way? As part of the fight against older people's unemployment, we have already mentioned the fact that we often come up with regulations that make it attractive to employ people, but that they are very unknown. At that time, I took an initiative with Mrs Vermeij. The other day, there was another study, which went much wider than just the things we regulate about older people's unemployment, which led to four out of ten companies having no idea what schemes are available to them at all. I think that's a shame. I'm asking the Minister to go after that. I'm going into the education vouchers now. Since May 2016 there is... There is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u69	I want you to finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u70	This is another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u71	Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u72	I had that impression. I have a question about that last point, the ignorance of regulations. It's a bit of a leap in terms of subject matter, but in terms of concept, it really hits the following. For the increase in the AOW age, we have a bridging scheme. It has been extended in the treatment of the acceleration of the increase. The access is widened. But also with this arrangement, I believe that only a quarter of what is budgeted is being used. In this context, too, there may be a potential for unknownness and other factors which do not make use of it, although there are complaints about it. I don't know if Mr. Van't Wout is gonna get those complaints, too. Does he have the same question that he has just asked about regulations for employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u73	I share Mr Heerma's analysis that spending on it and its use appear to be inversely proportional to the number of complaints and ask that we get them. That's crazy. So if Mr Heerma thinks that we should keep that under review, he will find me at his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u75	I need to speed something up, I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u77	...but I think the time was 20 minutes when I started instead of the 25 minutes on the list, Chairman. I'll be on the education vouchers. Since May 2016, on the basis of Mulder's and me's motion, there is the possibility to apply for educational vouchers to retrain you to a highly competitive profession. This is a very successful and well-known measure, as it turns out, which also fits in with our efforts to get people to work through education or to keep them to work, including in other sectors. This arrangement is now in danger of going down on its own success. We will come up with an amendment to ensure that budget at least for the duration of this project. I hope that we will find the Minister on our side. Together with Mr Heerma, who, like me and the rest of the Chamber, is concerned about the long-term unemployment of 50+, I have recently had a number of discussions with representatives of the craft industry in the Netherlands. This concerns a very wide range of professions. Those are very nice professions that really require old-fashioned craftsmanship. There are actually two problems there. The first problem is that many people will stop their business because of obtaining a certain age and because they will not find a successor. The second problem is that the people who come from the schools have not learned enough. In the Action Plan on unemployment among over 50 people, we have included the heading 'craft' as an ambition. I would very much like us to start a pilot with this club to see if we can retrain people to one of those wonderful craft calls to help reduce the persistent problem of long-term unemployment among 50+. Finally. I have argued that we are much better now than we were four years ago, but we are far from there. Steps have been taken. Sometimes these were good steps, but sometimes the route has to be re-defined. I'm just gonna come back to my dad's drawing board. It was replaced by a computer. The attic was replaced by a real business building. That attic became my bedroom and my father retired, but the company still exists. In the company the pencil has been replaced by the mouse. Besides, not one person works there, but a lot more people work there. They work together to make beautiful things and solve problems. I think that is exactly what the Netherlands can expect from us as politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u78	I missed the answer to an important question. What will the VVD do against rising unemployment? We have 77 000 more people on welfare. There are now almost 500,000 people looking for work. The number of disabled people working has fallen by almost 30%. The older unemployed Mr Van 't Wout talks about, he punishes and humiliates by forcing them to do work without pay after 40 years of work. What are the VVD's plans for next year? Just keep going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u79	I think it would be wise to continue. The economy is growing again and unemployment is falling. What seems particularly sensible to me is to do exactly the opposite of what has been done in Venezuela, the ideal image of the SP. We see what's going on there now. We must also allow the economy to grow by reducing the burden and cutting the bureaucracy and all the obligations we impose on employers. Unemployment is falling. There are currently 10 million jobs in the Netherlands. It's never been so many. So I'd like to continue on the right road with an even more liberal sauce on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u80	Nothing could be further from the truth. No less true. The number of unemployed in the assistance has grown by 67 000 under your responsibility, Mr Van 't Wout. 80% of the people have deteriorated under your responsibility. The VVD punishes older unemployed people who have worked for 40 years and removes jobs. That's your responsibility, Mr. Van 't Wout. What we need is not a tough policy of austerity that puts the bill on the people and makes the rich richer. We need an investment agenda. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we cannot expect that from the VVD. Then Mr.Van 't Wout can be mad and love Venezuela.He can go there, but the VVD is responsible for the ruins that we now have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u81	It still seems that Mrs Karabulut has remained in Venezuela when she talks about the state of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u82	To begin with, I would like to return to Mr Van 't Wout that he has read his predecessor's A4 and has also listened carefully to his opinion. That's what he started his input with. Mr Van 't Wout just stated in his reply to questions from the SP that you cannot get a quote from a speech. However, the chairman of the VVD Group did argue that the model of the Anglo-Saxon labour market would be the solution to our labour market. I wonder if Mr Van 't Wout could take that up. I missed that a little bit in his speech. I would like him to give a concrete answer to the question of how the abolition of collective agreements and the cessation of general declarations will help the entrepreneurs he is talking about? We've had a hearing on this in this house recently. There, all the entrepreneurs present, including those from the VVD house, have said: if you stop declaring universally binding, you get a wild west situation on the labour market. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u83	Firstly, in declaring collective agreements to be generally binding, I see a fundamental objection. I've always had that. You're going to be covered by regulations that you have nothing to say about yourself. Secondly, we also see in practice that sometimes it breaks down, because a small business in the east is something other than a large company in the north or a medium-sized company in the middle of the country, or because in one company people with four different collective agreements run around. Another objection that I have against it is that it is all based on a huge distrust towards employers; that also implies a little bit of Mr Heerma. After all, not everyone is covered by a collective agreement. Mr. Heerma says it's a big gang. If that's true, it should all be a big gang out there. I'm not convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u84	It is interesting that all those entrepreneurs, including the VVD entrepreneurs, say: beware, because if you stop declaring it universally binding, it will be a wild west situation in the labour market. In recent years, there have been many examples in which a whole sector of bona fide companies, which want to deal neatly with their staff and who want to feel positive when hiring staff, was competed by companies that did not maintain that collective agreement and could therefore work significantly cheaper, between 10% and 20%. It was the bona fide employers and employees who said, "Wait a minute, this has to be dealt with." Then you tackle unfair competition in the labour market. So that's not possible anymore if you quit avv's. That's not what we want with each other, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u85	Mr Heerma refers to conversations with VVD entrepreneurs, but let us not forget that. I can also show him the results of a study by ONL (Entrepreneurship Netherlands) a week ago, in which 82% of the entrepreneurs say they have problems with this. I see that in practice there are simply problems with this. There are going to be rules that may be very good for the partners at the table, but not for you. That problem remains. I read in the newspaper this morning a declaration of love from Mr Heerma to the polder. Maybe we do not agree on this point, but will we work together to see how we can at least get that polder to deliver a little more customization every now and then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u86	I just sat down because Mr Van 't Wout didn't quote from the VVD election programme in his own contribution, but as a result of Mr Heerma's interruption it came across: the VVD's proposal to break down collective agreements. That's what I'm saying. Technically, it is no longer known as "allowing collective agreements to be universally linked," but in fact it is tantamount to breaking down collective agreements and reducing trade unions. I would like to ask Mr Van 't Wout about the Venezuela of the VVD: the catering sector. I am not talking about the drinks you can drink there, but about the catering industry that is also in the news these days with all kinds of abuses like squeezing and exploiting people, as unions say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u87	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u88	This sector has been doing it for a few years without a collective agreement. Is that the front country that the VVD sees for all employees in the Netherlands: turn in the collective agreement and get the Wild West back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u89	I think Mr Kerstens can answer this question himself. No, of course not! He'll find me by his side. We recently joined forces at the round table on exploitation in the transport sector. He finds me at his side when he says: we are going to deal with things that are flagrantly contrary to all the things we have agreed with each other in the Netherlands. That's what I'm for! That does not always have anything to do with a collective agreement. Also in companies that are covered by a collective agreement, you will find abuses. I agree with Mr Kerstens on the matter of catering. By the way, I was in traffic this morning and could hear both the CNV and Mr.Kerstens on Radio 1 about this. That was a pleasure; that eased the suffering a little. I was pleased to hear that the CNV stressed that most of the catering employers are decent employers. But there are also crooks. It's also about not keeping to the most basic laws and regulations, about paying black and that kind of bad stuff. Mr Kerstens finds me by his side when he says: we must act hard against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u90	Of course, it is not the case that the majority of employers would be crooks. I do not use that term so easily myself, but the fact that the union is opening a hotline, looking for publicity about it, and the fact that the trade union can already share enough signals about things that are wrong in a sector that refuses to agree a collective agreement, is significant to me. If Mr Van 't Wout wants to tackle abuses and prevent people who are often already in a dependent position from fighting against someone who has much more power than they do, he must think again whether or not the instrument of a collective agreement can be adapted, not play an important and good role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u91	Then we will find each other halfway through by looking at some more customization in these collective agreements. Maybe I didn't mean to, but I'm also okay with the union setting up such a hotline. I don't have anything against unions. These are just things where unions can have incredible added value, as long as it comes from free association. I have difficulty with it in principle, as a child, I would have had that if rules were agreed on which I myself had no say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u92	I thought the VVD was always the party to "a deal is a deal." One of the good things in the coalition agreement is that the cleaners are taken into permanent service at ministries. However, the cleaners of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have still not done so. Doesn't the VVD now think that "a deal is a deal" should apply in this area and that these people should simply join the service?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u93	I do not know why Mr Koenders has not yet put his cleaners into permanent service. That's why I didn't follow up on that file, especially at that ministry. However, the VVD can always be kept to its agreements, including what it has put into the coalition agreement. Precisely reliability as a coalition partner is a great asset in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u94	That is a very clear answer. I hope the PvdA will be so clear later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u95	Mr. Chairman. We are also talking today about the inclusion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. I would like to begin by briefly talking about the necessary step ahead of integration, which is sometimes forgotten by many people. It has to do with a manageable immigration policy. After all, only if we control the influx of migrants can we also work for the successful integration of those who enter our country. It is not for nothing that the VVD has been calling attention for years to the implementation of the Azmani plan, which advocates the reception of asylum seekers in its own region. This is in the interests of asylum seekers, because they are no longer at risk of falling into the hands of smugglers who make a lot of money organising a dangerous crossing, because they are spared the degrading conditions they encounter during their journey, but also because they can return more easily after the war and cooperate in the reconstruction of their country if they have been sheltered close to home. It is also in the interests of our society. It's not the first time I've said it. Large groups with different cultural standards and values do not integrate, but segregate. The larger the group of asylum seekers who enter in the hope of building a new life here, the more the support for reception in our country decreases. That is a bad thing in itself. After all, our country is known for its hospitality towards those who are really fleeing war and violence. We must keep it that way: limited size of those who really cannot go anywhere else. It's called "civilization." When our country is overwhelmed by the uncontrolled influx of migrants who travel through safe countries to our country in search of a place with the best facilities and perspectives, that hospitality is under pressure, especially if it leads to azc's, asylum seekers' centres, in places that sometimes even double the original population. That is also the case if we have to worry about safety around these shelters. That was the case recently in Ter Apel. This is also the case when we see that most of these people are dependent on assistance. And that is certainly the case when we see that not all of these people embrace the freedoms of our society, but question them or even violate them. This kind of problem is not solved with more language lessons or more money, even for people who have not yet received a residence permit and who may never even get this permit. No, we need to solve the underlying problem. More and earlier language lessons are a solution to a self-created problem. As long as everyone can enter the Netherlands, the IND is stuck through the many procedures and so it takes a long time for people to know if they can stay and possibly start their integration. If they integrate at all! In short, we should not try to solve the problem at the back, but at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u96	Mr Azmani is a son of a migrant worker. The VVD calls that a lucky finder. Eventually, he turned out okay. I now notice that he does not allow all those others who want to contribute to our economy. I regret that his Minister and Secretary of State ensure that all those people end up in small villages. Isn't it the VVD policy that scares these people? Isn't it the position the VVD is in, which scares these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u97	I don't understand why my lineage is involved in this. Apart from that, I think it's about getting in touch with a large group of migrants in the years 2015 and 2016, with a large group of asylum seekers. This has caused a great deal of fuss in society. We should not deny the concerns about this in the country. We shouldn't run from that. I say for a reason that a large group of migrants with a different culture and a different pattern of standards and values are difficult to integrate. Of course there will be people of the second and third generation, or even of the first generation, who will succeed. However, Mr Öztürk must also realise that it is very difficult to get into a large group, especially in society. One example is the Swedish city of Malmö, which received large groups of Syrians in 2014. Those people were chosen, they came by invitation. The result was that people were mainly living together and not part of Swedish society. I think the people here really want to take people in, although it is not temporary but permanent. The only thing people in this country expect is that these people can participate in society. That's what these people expect. That is why I am also saying that we can talk about integration policy at the back, which I shall be discussing shortly, but we must not deny that something must also be done on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u98	That was a long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u99	I went to the Achterhoek and there were a lot of people, including many aldermen, who said they wanted to receive asylum seekers. But still you see that the VVD wants to put those people in certain places and scare them with a media hype. Apart from that, it's also about accepting people the moment they're here, isn't it? Isn't it also about giving people a place in this society through acceptance policies? If you want to avoid segregation, you have to make sure that the entrepreneurs, the municipalities and people who work in a department of personnel also hire them. What does the VVD do about the acceptance policy for the people who are here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u100	I'll come back to last year's events. There were weeks in which 4,000 asylum seekers entered the Netherlands. There were buses all over the country. They were looking for a safe place to stay, a safe place to stay. That there might have been a municipality somewhere in Twente that was happy to accommodate people... Yes, all the municipalities have also taken their responsibility as much as possible. But we have also seen that there are limits to it. If we did not change the policy or if the agreements were not made with Turkey, we would be facing 100,000 asylum seekers in this country this year. I do not want to vouch for its significance for the strength of a society. It only leads to polarization. That is why you should also mention that you cannot uncontrolledly welcome large numbers of new migrants in your country, especially if they have a different culture and a different pattern of values and standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u101	Mr Azmani very much likes to link integration policy with recent developments in refugee policy. We know his point of view. However, the integration policy we know is older than that. This cabinet's integration policy is already based on the Rutte I era. How does Mr Azmani look at the integration policy as it stands, making people wait longer and longer to join, integration that you can buy against a high loan somewhere, the unwelcome, growing policy? We are now moving towards a participation statement. Is that the welcoming, welcoming, welcoming Netherlands he was talking about, that apparently according to Mr Azmani we were until two years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u102	You can see what it entails if parties do not want to name the problems when you receive large numbers of new migrants. I already indicated the IND couldn't handle it. The COA couldn't handle it in terms of reception, the IND couldn't handle it in terms of procedures. People are longer in the procedure, with less certainty. This means that you ask these people to join this society as soon as possible. That is very difficult when you receive large groups of migrants. That is why I also say that you should not arrange it at the back with additional language courses, but that you should make sure that people who come to this country are clear as soon as possible whether they are actually allowed to stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u103	Mr Azmani is running away, because I am not talking about the period in which we received these large numbers of refugees. You can also discuss how large the number was. However, let us move on to the policy of the last four years. That is a very unwelcome policy, a policy that has not been aimed at getting people involved as quickly as possible. So I'm just talking about the period before 2015. We look back here on four years of government policy. How can Mr Azmani maintain that the policy was aimed at getting people involved as soon as possible? What does he make of that? Let me give you a few examples of this before 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u104	Mr. Van't Wout. Oh, Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u105	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u106	You guys are so much alike... you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u107	We're both liberals. To answer the question, we have changed a major change in integration policy. The integration policy of the 1980s and 1990s was mainly aimed at preserving their own culture and identity, with the hope that people would also leave this country. At some point we realized that it does not work. At that time, we placed a great deal of responsibility on the government with the provision of integration and integration courses, with the responsibility mainly of the government to ensure that people are successfully integrated. That wasn't a success. The key to success lies with the person himself, the newcomer who wants to join a society or not. So the responsibility must also lie with the newcomer. What we have not done in the past is particularly clear in what is expected of newcomers, for example in terms of the norms and values of a society. I see, at least on the basis of the integration policy that has been used by this minister, and also by the Rutte I cabinet, that responsibility is indeed laid down with the citizen. The success of integration lies with the person himself. You can facilitate this as a government, but as a government you have to be very clear about what you expect from people in the beginning. I see that this development is now taking place. There's one thing that goes with that. It's a lock piece. If people do not want to burgeon or do not want to do their best to burgeon, you must also dare to draw conclusions. I believe that we are now in the phase, and also in the years to come, to actually do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u108	Mr Azmani began his speech by saying that large groups do not integrate. I totally agree with him. When large groups of migrants sit together, they do not integrate. Then they will deal with each other. So it would be a good thing if people were in society between people who have always lived here. That's how you promote integration. I do not understand why the VVD felt it was so important, with a majority in this Chamber, to remove the priority regime for people with a status for a home. Why is the VVD for that, when it calls at the same time that large groups do not integrate? Isn't that what keeps people in the azc's?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u109	No, that's a misunderstanding. We do not want people waiting for years for a social rental home to have to wait any longer because a group of newcomers can immediately claim a social rental home. When I look at the groups that come in, young, single, for a large part from Eritrea, I think to myself: why shouldn't they be living in student rooms? Why do we have to be ready with a social housing unit right away? That's what the VVD stands for. Why do you always have to choose immediately to offer a large safety net and a social rental house? I think it's also fine to house people in student rooms, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u110	The answers must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u111	The point is that those long waiting lists did not come because of the status holders. Anyone who's been waiting ten years for a social housing facility is gonna wait nine years and ten months. That's not because of the status holders. It is due to the landlord's tax introduced by the VVD. If the VVD says they want to do something, make sure there are more social rentals. Don't give me this excuse. Mr Azmani says he doesn't want people all to have a nice home. Is it right to put people together in large groups? Isn't that just the big groups that don't integrate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u112	I think it is precisely the intention that we should spread people across the country once they have a residence permit. I believe that people are very busy providing alternative housing as well. We should certainly do that if we receive large groups of people, as we did last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u113	I think it's an interesting story. Mr Azmani says that integration policy failed because large groups of people were put together and did not learn the language. We may disagree on the causes and their analysis. In short: there are black and white neighborhoods, black and white schools. People live alongside each other. Then what does the VVD do to fight that segregation? To this day I have really heard no solution from the VVD to counter this. On the contrary: the VVD introduced market forces in language education and let the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods suffer by making huge savings. With this she saddles the people in those neighborhoods and neighborhoods with all the problems. So what fundamental political change have I missed from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u114	I was just getting started on my input...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u115	Yeah, only three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u116	...but it was me who cared about the front. The biggest difference between the Socialist Party and the VVD lies in the following. The Socialist Party is always very strict on labour migration, but when it comes to the large group of migrants we welcome on the basis of asylum, there is no border on the Socialist Party. The principle is: everyone is welcome, come to the Netherlands. Well, look at the consequences for segregation in neighborhoods when you don't want to limit it. I would like to ask Mrs Karabulut what she is actually talking about. You have to fix it at the front instead of mopping it with the tap open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u117	What I'm talking about is that the VVD is lying. The VVD is lying about the problems it has created in our neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods and for which it has no solution. The VVD is lying about the causes of migration. The VVD is lying about our views. The Socialist Party is not the one who throws bombs to overthrow regimes and then creates an Islamic State that kills and kills people, then triggers a migration flow, then deals with dictatorial regimes and finally says: it's all your fault. No, we're not. We're the ones who say you have to catch war refugees. Yeah, preferably in the region. Let me tell you something, Mr Azmani. If you want to catch people in the region, maybe you should stop fighting war. I would now like an answer to the question of what you are doing about these black and white neighborhoods and those black and white schools. The answer is nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u118	I hear a lot of rhetoric from Mrs Karabulut. Let me be very clear and clear: in order to prevent segregation, you must avoid receiving large groups with the same cultural standards and values in society. Let's find each other in there sometime, instead of being at the back about how you're gonna do that. Of course, housing is distributed in the neighbourhoods. I can have this whole discussion with Mrs Karabulut. I know the Socialist Party wants you to mix schools. Well, we Liberals are not in favour of compulsory mixing. We can now have that debate with each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u119	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u120	... but please look at the front and take responsibility as a Socialist Party, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u121	Let's get back to the subject, because the subject is integration. Mr Azmani talks about 'on the front'. That's the admissions policy. I have often heard Mr Azmani say how proud he is that we are so strict in our admission policy. You may, but this is about integration and about people who are allowed to be here. I hear Mr Azmani telling a story that's a little unfair. He suggests that refugees would not want to integrate. We are sitting here in the Chamber having a budget debate and we are talking about how we can solve the problem. Integration is indeed a concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u122	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u123	How will Mr Azmani remove the obstacles to integration? I am referring, for example, to not starting with language on day one, to learning new values and standards, to tackling discrimination in the labour market. I would very much like to hear from Mr Azmani about this, because the refugees I am talking to say: Mr Marcouch, we are grateful that we are allowed to be here, but why do they not let us work? Why can't we go to school?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u124	Like I said, I was just getting started. I was working on my introduction and I was talking about the front. I shall, of course, come to the question of integration in a moment and the question of what requirements you should make of it. I would like to point out that this is not just about refugees. We are faced with a large group of asylum seekers and what is happening in Ter Apel now proves that some of those people are not in this country with good intentions at all. We should not close our eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u125	The group that we have seen continuously in the newspapers over the last few days should not really apply for asylum here. They're people from safe countries. It's very simple: if you're a criminal here, if you're a crook, then the police have to arrest you and lock you up, and if you're not allowed to be here, you're out of the country. My question to Mr Azmani is what his answer is to my question about the large group of people who are allowed to be here and who are very eager to join, but who cannot and cannot do so, including from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u126	That is what Mr Azmani is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u127	I would like to say something about that front. Only if we control the influx, if we come to a situation of reception in our own region, and if we provide only a defined and controlled group of refugees here, only on invitation, can we also have more control over the integration of newcomers. In doing so, we are also responding to the concerns which, as I have already outlined, rightly live in our country. Those concerns are: will the Netherlands remain the Netherlands, or will it lose its identity because of the arrival of large groups of newcomers? We must also dare to learn lessons from the migratory waves of the past. That didn't all go well, and we're still reaping the bitter fruits from that. I would like to see this Minister of Integration reflect that in his first term. Does he share my views on the need to control immigration? Does he want to make the integration policy under his responsibility a success? If we allow newcomers, they must adapt to our society and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u128	I was at the Security and Justice budget debate last week. There too, asylum and immigration were discussed and Mr Azmani spoke. I've been listening to the same speech for about three quarters now. In between, I heard an interrupting debate that Pim Fortuyn once called "Haagse kaestolpretoriek." That's what Pim was talking about. After the first part of his contribution, does Mr Azmani think that there is anyone else at home who believes the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u129	Of course, otherwise I wouldn't be standing here. I understand that people have doubts and concerns, when they see, for example, the large migratory waves, but ultimately it is not just a question of naming problems, but of providing a real solution. You have to provide a solution to the problem. There are times when we, as parties, differ in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u130	Thanks for the answer. Indeed, it is becoming less and less, the people who believe the VVD. It's getting less and less. I hear it on the street. I won't talk about the polls in all the conversations I have, I hear it in the pub and I see it in my mailbox. I also understand that there are fewer and fewer people who believe the VVD. Mr Azmani may be able to express bureaucratic sympathy with the people, come up with solutions or vaguely describe the problems, but that is the cause of the misery that people are suffering at home: it is the VVD that has not done anything about these migration flows for four years, it is the VVD that has kept the borders open, it is the VVD that has sold her heart and her soul to Erdogan and it is the VVD that is causing the misery in the streets that people are now in. That's why fewer and fewer people believe the VVD. The question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u131	That's what I was looking forward to. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u132	It's an interrupting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u133	Yeah, but no introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u134	The question I have here to Mr Azmani is when people can truly believe the VVD. Trust comes on foot, but it goes on horseback. That horse ran a long way, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u135	I will fight hard every day for this country and to provide a decent response to the concerns that live in this country. However, what I really have difficulty with are those parties that do name concerns and that also provide a frame in a certain way, but which ultimately do not offer a solution. What matters is that the Netherlands should close its borders, I have never, really never, seen a constructive proposal from the PVV about how to do that. Is that 435 kilometers of fences? Is that another ceiling? I sometimes have the idea that the PVV believes in such a snow globe, in such a sphere with such a beautiful picture in which you see snow when you shake it, and see a utopia of life. But that is not the way the reality is, that is not how the world is organized and that is not the way the Netherlands is. So the PVV can again come up with hollow rhetoric about 'borders closed', but then I challenge it to come up with constructive proposals, with more than just saying that the borders should be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u136	Please answer the questions and not challenge the others, Mr Azmani. I must now give Mr De Graaf the floor again for a brief response because of this challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u137	Yeah, a short reaction. This is exactly why the people at home no longer believe the VVD, because that nonsense is telling about the PVV. We have come up with proposals, but the VVD does not want to support them. Then Mr Azmani can use his hands to do the same as his party leader, he has done the same course, but that does not help. People at home don't believe this crap anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u138	It was an A4 I believe, the election program of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u139	Please continue, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u140	When we allow newcomers, they must adapt to our society and not the other way around. Does the Minister agree with me? Or is the Minister of Integration more of the left-wing school who believes that integration should come from two sides, that the receiving society should also be prepared to make concessions? For the VVD it is certain: it is the newcomer who has to adapt and not society. If you get the chance to build a life in our country, it's your duty to be part of our society as well. That is only possible if you agree to the rules and laws that we have agreed to. However, that is not the end of the matter. You need to get deeper into our society, learn the language, get to work and build social contacts. We really don't all have to eat hutspot or not play human-ger-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your. If you don't want to be part of this, we'd rather you go. Our society is built on enlightenment and liberal traditions. They have led to a free and tolerant society. A society in which everyone is equal regardless of sex, sexual orientation or belief and in which you have the right to decide on matters of life and death, such as abortion or euthanasia. A society in which tolerance is the norm and Church and State are separated, in which you can choose whatever faith you want to confess and choose not to believe. As a VVD, we stand for a society in which everyone participates, whether you are Christian, Jew, Muslim, atheist or Buddhist and whether you were born here or not. If you embrace our freedoms, you're just one of them. Then you become a part of us, of the Netherlands. For example, in the Netherlands there are many migrants who have found their own way in society and are integrated. Those people did it themselves. They have grasped the opportunities offered by the Netherlands. We believe that we should also expect this from migrants. Conversely, they can expect discrimination to be fought hard at all times. Does the Minister consider that the latter is also doing the best it can? Or are there limits to what the government can do against discrimination and, if so, where exactly are these limits, according to the Minister? Successful integration is the key to a full-fledged place in Dutch society. The initiative to burgeon can only come from people themselves, not from the government. Requirements may therefore be imposed on newcomers. We want to have consequences if they do not meet these requirements. Newcomers who are guilty of failing to comply with their duty of integration show that they do not want to be part of our society. The VVD then finds it logical that this has consequences, such as shortening a benefit or on supplements, not granting a stronger residence status, not granting Dutch citizenship or losing a residence permit. How does the Minister feel about this? If people continue to refuse to burgeon and therefore actually turn their backs on our society, can that society turn their backs on them too? Solidarity comes from both sides. How does the Minister feel about this? I'd like to hear a response. Wouldn't it be obvious if newcomers were to grow into our social security? Why are we immediately ready with a large safety net for people who have never paid for it? Couldn't we in the first few years be enough to provide a base, of shelter and food, only in kind? Then the incentive remains for newcomers to get to work quickly and keep their own pants up, which also leads to successful integration. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Besides active participation and sufficient knowledge of Dutch society, mastering the Dutch language is also a prerequisite for building a life in our country. Can the Secretary of State say what is going on with the implementation of the law "No Dutch, no assistance"? We have been working on this so intensively together. Only when all the conditions that I have just outlined are met will the Dutch people be brought into the picture as far as the VVD is concerned. That is not automatic, because the Dutchmanship is a great asset. You can never get that on the basis of an automatism, but you have to earn it. We want newcomers to feel more Dutch and have actually contributed to Dutch society by working here, by speaking the language, and not just at A2 level. We want them to feel more Dutch by embracing our values and freedoms. Once we have given that right, it is very difficult to take it down again. The only possible route is not to go too fast, and very carefully to grant the right to Dutch citizenship. As far as my group is concerned, we offer the opportunity to become Dutch after ten years. It also requires that there are no criminal backgrounds and that the assistance is not called upon. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u141	Mr Öztürk wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u142	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is fantastic that the VVD says that discrimination needs to be tackled hard. But over the past four years, the figures relating to discrimination, racism, xenophobia and sexism have risen. And now, after four years of cabinet policy, Mr Azmani asks the Minister what he has done about this? Does Mr Azmani think the Minister has done enough? Does he think that the VVD has put forward the necessary proposals to really support the words he has just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u143	I have asked the Minister whether there are limits to what the government can do if there is discrimination. Prejudice is mostly in people's minds. The government isn't about what's in people's minds. It is very difficult to take action on that basis. If there is discrimination as a criminal offence, we must tackle it hard. That's what I think, and that's what my party thinks. We have always said that we must reduce migration, promote integration and combat discrimination. Mr Bolkestein first came to the VVD with this triptych. I'm proud that he did, because that's exactly how I'm in it. I'd like to deal with discrimination hard and hard. However, there are limits to what the government can do in this area. That's a dilemma. That's what I'm gonna lay down with the Minister. I am very curious how the Minister feels about that and where he sees the border for himself. You have seen me support proposals on this in the Chamber, for example last week in the budget debate on Security and Justice, a proposal for a hotline on discrimination on the Internet. You can see me supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u144	Apparently, the word "acceptance" does not exist in the VVD dictionary. That's what I'm trying to get out of your mouth. Acceptance is also a form to tackle discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u145	Mr Öztürk, you really need to speak through the President. That doesn't just apply to you, it applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u146	Okay. The point is that the VVD does say beautiful words in speeches, but you don't hear the VVD when Giel Beelen or Johan Derksen makes statements that hurt people and hurt people. But when someone else says something in society, a minister, a secretary of state or the prime minister is going to say something. It is precisely in those areas that the VVD can play a role. If an entrepreneur deliberately discriminates against and doesn't hire someone, the VVD can appeal to that entrepreneur, but she doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u147	That's not true. Mr Öztürk apparently has that image of the VVD. I'm trying to take that away and make it clear it's not right. Our own Prime Minister said something about Johan Derksen's statement that Moroccan footballers should be banned. Our prime minister has stood up for them. He said he couldn't stand to see him explain that when he's in front of the classroom. That's what he's doing here every week in The Hague, also for children with a migration background. Then I really think to myself: I think the VVD stands for that. Maybe we can have a conversation about that at another time. Here is a spokesperson who takes his group into account in the story that we must stand firm to combat discrimination. That's not for nothing. We have to fight discrimination hard. So I think we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u148	The VVD is in favour of people becoming Dutch only after ten years. It is very funny that a few months ago she voted against an amendment by the PVV with the same thrust. But how can the extension of the deadline to become a Dutchman make sure that people can be part of it even later? Can Mr Azmani explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u149	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u150	Of course, I can talk about that for hours, but I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u151	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u152	On that amendment from the PVV: the VVD is good for its signature. That's how we rule a coalition now. We're good for our signature. If we have an agreement with the Labour Party to take it from five to seven years, then we are not going to support an amendment that takes it to ten years. It can't be, because the arrangements are made as they were made. That's the VVD: good for her signature. But the VVD's wish is indeed that it was there earlier than the amendment to take it to ten years. We don't do that as a kind of automatism, but it takes time to actually feel Dutch. It takes time to participate in this society and test all the elements of this society. You don't just do that by setting up a time period. You want to see if people actually, if they can, participate actively in society, for example whether they are going to work, whether they are becoming more Dutch and, for example, not going on the criminal path. That is why I believe that we can make higher demands. The Dutchmanship is a crown jewel. We must cherish this and not just give it away, as happened in proposals that have sometimes been made on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u153	I also think you should cherish the Dutchmanship. You have to say: it's special that you get this. If people deserve that, I think they should get it, too. So if after a few years someone is just completely integrated, speaks Dutch, works and belongs here, I don't understand why such a person couldn't get Dutch nationality. Mr Azmani says: no, it takes ten years, no matter what you do or who you are, to get nationality. What does this tell you? This is just an election talk. Now the VVD finds this. She didn't find this a few months ago. I have still not heard an answer to the question of how this will promote integration. The reality is that this does not promote integration. The VVD just pushes people away with this. So just be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u154	That's really bullshit. Apparently, my first answer was not listened to. I indicated how we act as a party when we make agreements with other parties and what our ideal image is. It takes time to really feel Dutch. You shouldn't just want to grant that right. It also takes a lot of effort to take away that right when you think that someone isn't really Dutch and doesn't feel at home in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u155	Mr Van 't Wout has just indicated on behalf of the VVD that he is in politics to achieve things. On this basis, he also outlined what the coalition and therefore the VVD have done in the field of the labour market over the past four years. He has also outlined that as a liberal he might have wanted to do a number of other things, but he has made it quite clear: these are the points that have been achieved over the past four years. Will Mr Azmani do the same for integration policy? At the moment, the focus is mainly on what the VVD would like. I have heard very little about satisfaction with what has been achieved in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u156	I can certainly do that. No problem. I did not ask the Secretary of State for nothing what progress had been made on the bill 'No Dutch, no assistance', which was adopted by both Chambers. The VVD was very happy with that. That's what we've achieved. We have recently had a debate in this Chamber on facial clothing, including a partial burqa ban. I am glad that we have been able to reach agreements with the PvdA to do so in sub-areas. I'm happy with the fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u157	It's okay. You mentioned a few examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u158	Yeah, I can name some more. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u159	That's enough. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u160	It wasn't that much. Mr Azmani has often tabled various motions on integration with Mr Karabulut, but also with members of my group. On what points, in addition to the things he has mentioned that the VVD Group is satisfied with, is the VVD Group less satisfied with the results of the last four years in the field of integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u161	Integration is difficult. Integration is not a system portfolio. It's not like: oh we're turning on that wheel and then everyone is successfully integrated. That is why I said that the key to successful integration lies with the people themselves, with the newcomer. He has to make it a success. We must make sure that we are clear about what we expect of newcomers, about what demands we make and ultimately draw consequences. I have already said that we have shifted a great deal with integration policy, when it comes to who is responsible. You don't realize success rates from today to tomorrow. If you return responsibility to the newcomer, expect something from the newcomer, you must also be clear about the consequences. These consequences must eventually be drawn in order to make this integration policy a real success. The law entered into force in 2013. It will take at least three years for you to get to the first cohort working on integration based on the new law. It's time-consuming, too. Some have now also been delayed to integrate five years into society. So you can't really say right now whether the policy is going to be a great success, because you haven't seen the back. We must, however, recognise that integration policy must be much more successful if it is to be successful. I have already said that you need not only the back, but also the front, and that is a controlled migration policy. If your migration policy isn't controlled, you can integrate what you want, but that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u162	The VVD states that it wants to promote integration. That would be very nice, of course. Only when we look at the voting behaviour of the VVD over the past period, we actually see something that is at odds with what the VVD often proclaims, even today. Look, the VVD voted against our motion to shut down mosques calling for violence. That's what the VVD was against. I do not think that would promote integration. The VVD was against raising the language level during the integration exam. I do not believe that this will promote integration either. The VVD was against stopping subsidies for the Gülen movement. I do not believe that this is conducive to integration either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u163	How long is that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u164	We're almost done. It is a VVD mayor in The Hague who took the initiative to work with a salafistic mosque. I do not think that is really conducive to integration either. So my question to the VVD is the following. What shows that the VVD wants to promote integration, if it is now voting against motions that actually do so, and it is keeping violence mosques open, working with Salafist organisation and not increasing the language level? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u165	I think this is a good point, because it is a bridge to the next subject that I would like to address, namely radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u166	Will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u167	Mr Van Klaveren mentioned a number of motions that we voted against, but this was related to the political context of that moment and the way in which the debate took place. Mr Van Klaveren asks about the impact of this, but I do not know exactly what the motions were and what the political context was. But let me be clear: mosques calling for violence in this country must be dissolved as soon as possible. Let's make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u168	Now the VVD is doing it again. The VVD says it's against violence mosques, but when a motion is tabled to close such a violence mosque, the VVD doesn't give up at home. I already indicated that the VVD earlier stated that raising the language level in integration exams, but in the end she was opposed to that. There has been a very dry, sec motion on this which she could have just voted for. A motion has been tabled to get rid of the Gülen movement, but the VVD was against it as well. The SP just said the VVD is lying. That's too bad. The VVD holds a story that is 180 degrees out of line with what it votes for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u169	Mr Van Klaveren talks about subsidies to the Gülen movement, but I cannot imagine that the Empire or this minister will grant subsidies to the Gülen movement. That's not true. Perhaps a municipality has granted subsidies to the Gülen movement, but that does not mean that the motion tabled in the Chamber should be adopted, because it was not about this. This would create the impression that this minister is actually providing subsidies to the Gülen movement. It is easy to mention sec motions now, but then you need to know the context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u170	That was the context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u171	Mr. Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u172	Mr Azmani, you're lying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u173	The last word, though. Mr Marcouch has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u174	That's not how we treat each other, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to find connections with Mr Azmani and the VVD Group. I believe that Mr Azmani really should not have any discrimination in the labour market. The Minister has an action plan with 48 action points, but that is not enough. I would very much like to get rid of these abstractions and discuss it more concretely. Last week, a girl named Gamze Gül applied under her name at Pathé. Sorry, I'm saying it wrong: Gamze Gül.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u175	You're being corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u176	Yeah, I'm being corrected right. We must remember the name Gamze Gül, because she herself has proved that there is discrimination in the labour market. It is about young people who want to, I say to Mr Azmani. They are doing their best, they have been trained, they are applying and they are also prepared to expose something that we should have revealed, namely that there is real discrimination in the labour market. The Labour Party Group has put forward a proposal for an anonymous application pilot. This seems to work very well in The Hague. I suggest that we do that much wider. If Mr Azmani really thinks that these young people should not only fight themselves, but that we too should stand up for the fight against discrimination, will he be prepared to support this initiative in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u177	I would like to speak with Mr Marcouch on the subject of discrimination. I am not personally the spokesperson of the VVD Group on discrimination, but I have a lot with it. I recognise that there is discrimination in the labour market. We all acknowledge that. That's not from yesterday. It's been that way for a long time. Many studies, for example from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, also show this. The message from the lady who applied to Pathé is horrible. I am sure how that feels and how it is experienced, namely as injustice. At a time like this, you're being wronged. But I and my group have difficulty with Mr Marcouch's proposal to apply widely anonymously. I really think you should never deny your origins, not even in an application procedure. I'd rather an organization didn't accept me than get into an organization that doesn't want people with a migration background. I don't even want to work for an organization like that. I would never deny my origins by not mentioning my name, even though I have to walk a step faster. For example, we are opposed to applying anonymously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u178	Mr Marcouch has a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u179	It is, of course, sad to have to deal with discrimination in the labour market. I admit the initiative is a horse's cure. But it does lead to young people being invited to a job interview. We've tried it now, and it turns out to be working. There's nothing about denying it, because everyone no longer mentions the name and zip code on the CV and the application letter and eventually you are, of course, in the job interview who you are. I admit it's a horse medicine, but it works. So let's just do it, because we're helping these young people. Integration is, in fact, first and foremost: taking part in the labour market and not being excluded from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u180	A brief response, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u181	I am actually surprised to have to say it to someone from the Labour Party, but there are also such a thing as principles. I think you should never deny your heritage. That's what I stand for. I would prefer those companies to be dealt with if there is discrimination rather than denying your own origins. That's how I'm in here. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u182	Yeah, that's clear. I would remind you that next week a debate on discrimination and racism in the Netherlands will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u183	I fully agree with Mr Azmani that you should never, ever deny your origins. I also fully agree with him that you have to deal with the entrepreneur. I find it sad that the Labour Party has tabled a motion or initiative to accept the acceptance of discrimination. Anonymous application is pure acceptance of discrimination. I find it sad that the Labour Party comes with this and I think it brave that Mr Azmani stands for his principles and says that you should never deny your origins. I would like to ask him to address the entrepreneur who is still discriminated against and who unfortunately is also in the VVD. I do sometimes miss Mr Azmani on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u184	If Mr Öztürk has a specific case, I am happy to hear it. Then we simply redirect it to the Ministry of Security and Justice and to the Minister of Social Affairs, who is also responsible for this dossier. I'm standing right in front of that. Entrepreneurs who happen to be members or sympathize with the VVD, I am not going to treat any different than entrepreneurs who are members of another political party. Discrimination just doesn't belong in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u185	I also had the discussion with the VVD about ethnic profiling in entrepreneurship. A number of VVD chamber members deny the ethnic profile of entrepreneurs. When I ask these Minister for Parliamentary Questions, the Minister says that an attempt is being made to give the people of the inspection in the training course a course or training so that they do not profile. On the one hand, therefore, the Ministry recognises that there is ethnic profile among entrepreneurs of a migrant background. On the other hand, the VVD is in denial. I would ask Mr Azmani to do a little more in his own group on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u186	I am not in favour of throwing all the entrepreneurs at a pile and saying that they discriminate. If there are entrepreneurs who discriminate, I assume that my colleagues in the group are just as hard on doing something about it. I am not standing here in front of myself; I am standing here on behalf of the VVD and I have already indicated that we want to fight discrimination hard, precisely because it hinders integration and facilitates segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u187	Perhaps just before the historiography: in the past, in 2013, the VVD said that applying anonymously is something we should seriously consider. I am therefore a little surprised at Mr Azmani's pitch. I fully share his great inconvenience with that instrument, but it works. That's why I and Mrs Vermeij asked for those pilots. My question to Mr Azmani is another. He started with a whole story. Only after an interruption by Mr Öztürk did he talk about entrepreneurs who discriminate and the fact that that is unacceptable. Why didn't Mr Azmani say the same? Doesn't he have a responsibility of his own? I can challenge him: Mrs Karabulut and I are going to table an amendment to rig the labour discrimination unit at the inspection. So I have two questions for Mr Azmani. Why does he need an interruption to draw attention to the appeal of those entrepreneurs? And is he going to support the amendment aimed at making more money available for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u188	I really think this is bullshit. I mentioned the word 'discrimination' even in the introduction to my speech; I said that we should fight it. I asked the Minister what the boundaries of what the government can be. I think there are limits to that. We have to be honest about that, too. So don't tell me that in the context of discrimination I should specifically mention the entrepreneurs. That is nonsense, of course, because you should tackle anyone who discriminates in Dutch society. Moreover, as the President pointed out, we still have a major debate on discrimination before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u189	I don't think that's necessary when I hear this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u190	Moreover, labour market discrimination is simply something we always discuss with the Minister. So I don't think it's weird at all that that's what's going on here. I heard Mr Azmani right. I am now counting on support for the amendment. 80% of entrepreneurs did not seem to have policies in place in the area of, for example, prevention of discrimination. That's what the inspections show. I am now counting on the support of the VVD. The reason I'm working on this is because it's easy to point the finger at a difficult instrument like applying anonymously. But it starts in the workplace. It helps people who aren't even invited right now. In the end, it must be the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u191	That wasn't a question. I suggest you continue, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u192	No, it wasn't a question. Actually, I'm sorry about D66. Apparently, she doesn't have any principles. I talked about the threat to our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u193	A personal fact, Mr. Chairman! The party that says to people that refugees come for breast enhancements and has to withdraw it, the party that says all the time that you have to fight, should not bring me up on principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u194	Please continue, Mr Azmani. And don't provoke it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u195	I don't think anyone in our country should deny their origins. I talked about the threat to our country, the Netherlands, by attacks on our way of life and our freedoms. Our core values must not be put under pressure by attacks from an Islamic extremist angle. I ask the Minister responsible about the prevention of radicalisation. The latest threat picture shows that the risk of attacks in our country will come from within rather than from outsiders. What does this mean for the Minister's policy? What does not help in our fight against radicalisation is to offer hate preachers a stage so that they can impose their radical thoughts on their followers. We must ward off these preachers in the Netherlands, whether they come from within or outside the European Union. Can the Minister tell us to what extent he is doing this? Last week, together with my colleague Ockje Tellegen, I drew attention to the fact that everyone in this country can call themselves imam. That does not apply to predecessors of other beliefs. Any self-proclaimed imam can then rely on the right to change. That gets in the way if, for example, there is cause for an investigation against an imam. The VVD has called on organisations such as the Contact Body Muslims and Government (CMO) to establish a register of recognized imams, so that we can prevent this. How does the Minister view this? The VVD also wants us to address dubious foreign funding flows to institutions in the Netherlands. This also applies to the foreign financing of religious organisations such as those engaged in activities that are contrary to our fundamental freedoms. The Minister has recently sent a letter in response to the many questions raised by the Chamber. From the words written, I can see the urgency of the Minister, but when are we going to take action? I would like to go a little faster than I am now looking into whether legislation can be introduced. Can we at least receive that research in the short term and not push it forward unnecessarily? The Minister indicated earlier that anti-democratic groups in our country could be dealt with by the current legislation. My colleagues Heerma and Dijkgraaf and I have not questioned this for nothing. A Salafist organization has recently been banned in Germany. Can the Minister confirm that, if, for example, a political party is established in our country that advocates the introduction of Sharia, we can stop it? And if a similar Salafist organization is acting in the Netherlands, I believe that it is called De True Religion, can we also declare it prohibited? I doubt that's possible without an amendment to the law. When will the Minister inform us about the further investigation? Religious freedom must never be allowed to undermine our free, liberal society. Freedom of religion is an essential pillar of our country, and it is not for nothing in the Constitution. However, this does not mean that we allow people under the heading of religion to disrupt our society. Religious societies now have a legal exception, so they cannot be banned. We want to be able to ban religious societies that undermine democracy as an extreme measure. That is why today the VVD is sending a bill to the Chamber that allows extremists operating under the flag of a religious society to be dealt with. The intention is not to interfere with the freedom of religion, but rather to protect it from those who abuse the position of church societies for overthrowing our democracy. We shouldn't be naive. We have to prevent and act. I call on my colleagues to deal with this bill as soon as possible. As representatives of the people, we have a duty to bear in mind the importance of our society in all our decisions. Our society deserves to be careful with her. As a politician, we cannot do that alone. That is what we have to do with 17 million Dutch people. We must stand for the things that make our country that special country, for the freedoms for which former generations have fought, for the way we deal with each other here and for the tolerance we have towards those who think or believe differently than we perhaps do ourselves. In short, we must ensure that our country, our democracy, is and remains resilient. Let me briefly explain what I mean. More and more often, I see the tendency for social and political discussions to take place at the sharp edge of the cut. That is fine in itself, but not if it causes society to split into two groups, which withdraw into trenches. Take the asylum file. Looks like there are two options. Or you open up the borders, give refugees and asylum seekers all conceivable facilities and call anyone who doesn't want to, a racist. Or you want to put a fence around our country and not even the ones in the greatest need and call anyone who doesn't want to, a traitor. Both visions can occasionally be found one-on-one in this room. My party wants to represent the people who do not feel at home with either extreme, that large group that is confused with polarization and escalation and simply wants problems to be solved in a humane, feasible and realistic way. After all, that is the way to move forward and make society resilient and maintain it. In this light, I would like to quote two passages from a letter submitted by Mr Van Ekeren from Leerdam last week in the Algemeen Dagblad. That letter was taken from my group's heart. I quote: 'We must take other cultures into account, I hear you say. Why should other cultures not take us into account? What's wrong with it? Look around you. Shameless to polarize over and over again and want to look one direction. Stop it." And: "For our fellow citizens, forget the role of victim, put your shoulders under it. Don't look at what Dutch people remember you. Look at your fellow countrymen who have accomplished wonderful things on their own. Put energy in there. Go live with real democratic values. What a beautiful world we shall have." In short: in a resilient society, both the minority and the majority must realize what a beautiful country we live in. The minority should not scream murder and fire about how bad things are here, but the tacit majority should not be pushed aside either. She certainly shouldn't turn in her values. In that light, I would like to conclude with a personal experience. When I was a kid, my parents chose to put me in the nearest elementary school. That was a Catholic elementary school. Soon I was told that I didn't have to pray with it, but had to be quiet. But I didn't want to be any different than the rest of them, so I just prayed. Then it became Palm Passes. For the non-Christians: that is the last Sunday of the Lent period, the Sunday before Easter. Then Christians celebrated the joyful entrance of Jesus Christ into Jerusalem. At a Catholic school it is then customary to make a stick for a parade through the neighborhood, a cross decorated with garlands and with on top a bread in the shape of a cock. That bread symbolizes the breaking and distribution of bread by Jesus at the last supper. The cock symbolizes the cock that crowed after Peter had said three times that he didn't know Jesus. I didn't get a wooden cross, but a wooden T, because the parents of another classmate with a Muslim background struggled that their child would bring home a cross. So it would be at my house, too. As a child with a Muslim background, it made me feel like I wasn't fully part of it. Of course it was meant to be good, but I would have preferred that cross, so that I didn't have to feel any different, so that I didn't have to try any harder to fit in, and so that there wasn't thought for me, that little boy with a Muslim background, but just things were asked of me and I was listened to as I was, to Malik. Looking at the recent performance of this minister, I am actually afraid that he would have done the same as my former teacher, with good intentions; let that be very clear. But I hope this personal experience holds him a mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u196	Mr. Chairman. "Worker and employer have a moral relationship among themselves, because the worker is not a living machine and the employer is not a banknote or a bond, but because both are people who have a vocation in common to fulfill." These words wrote co-founder of the CNV and ARP Minister Syb Talma in his book The Freedom of the Workers at the beginning of the twentieth century. Actually, this is still the case today. So you can see that central issues, including in the labour market, are always at the heart of the matter. This last budget debate Social Affairs of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is taking place at a politically interesting time. 2016 was the year of the Brexit, of Trump and of the No to the Ukraine referendum. Politics is everywhere in the Western world in search of renewed trust, renewed support. Dangerous dividing lines in society have become evident to everyone almost everywhere. Unhealthy tension and mutual removal in our society must be tackled, but too often we lack the strength to pull ourselves out of the swamp. At least the uncertainty and the discontent that underpins the crumbling of solidarity is due to the fact that they are partly under the responsibility of what these directors represent. Unfair economy, unfair labour market, failing integration policies and uncertainty about old age provision are major issues that politicians need to address. Four years Asscher at Social Affairs! The results evoke mixed feelings. This minister started his period in the department with the adage "underpromise, overdeliver," an adage which he repeated over and over again. That was a wise mantra, because you better let your actions exceed the awakened expectations. And yet the Minister has not consistently adhered to this for the past four years. Especially in the field of the labour market, the trailers were sometimes better than the final film. The final results were rather pale in the expectations that had been raised earlier. Because our labour market has a big problem, as the CPB showed in a report three weeks ago. The growth of flex andzzp transcends that of all European countries in the Netherlands, especially when you add everything together. At the top of the labour market people from whom the CPB also states that they are actually a thief of their own wallet if they continue to pay for collective provisions instead of becoming a vzzp'er. At the bottom of the labour market, employers are too often a thief of their own wallet if they do not house their employees in payroll, flex orzzp structures. The result is an unfair labour market. Both the Wwz and the discussion we have had over the past few years, as well as the DBA Act, which will be debated again next Thursday, show that it does not work if you try to press rules at the back of this system. Less opportunities for temporary contracts result in people with temporary contracts being on the streets faster. More rules for zzp appear to lead in practice to resort to other constructions, such as payrolls. The real reform of the labour market must therefore begin. Because the labour market is still too much of an ugly picture. The gap between high probability and low probability is still too great. We must be careful that in the long term this labour market does not become the law of the strongest. This is also the reason why the attack on our polder model that the VVD does by abolishing collective agreements is bizarre and is also a bizarre bad idea. The Minister himself recently said, in response to questions from the Telegraaf on the payment of wages in the event of illness, that a subsequent cabinet had to find a solution to this problem. This had to be discussed at the next formation table. I wonder how the Minister, having said that, looks back on the past period. How does he judge himself that this has remained so long? This also applies to the ibo-zzp-file, which has remained in place for many years and has led to little result. Haven't the taboos within the coalition played too dominant a role? Have they really had an impact on tackling these problems on the labour market? The Minister, as PvdA's candidate for membership, has said the necessary things in PvdA rooms over the past few months and weeks. He's here now, after four years of social affairs ministry. What are his ambitions for the labour market for the next four years? What should happen in the labour market over the coming period? Last year, the CDA presented an idea for payment of wages and the position ofzzp'ers in the budget treatment. That idea has been on the table of the ESC for almost a year now. There are real steps in that plan. It is not the final picture, but it does contain real steps towards a fair labour market, by significantly reducing the payment obligation for individual companies and by introducing basic insurance. That basic insurance will also apply tozzp'ers. There is a great deal of benefit to be gained from this. I also ask for a response to yesterday's RTL broadcast on people who recover from cancer, who do not intervene as an employee because of the payment obligation and are excluded from disability insurance by insurers. Wouldn't basic insurance be a solution for these people, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u197	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u198	Well... it's possible, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u199	Last year, the CDA presented that plan. We're a year away and I'm still waiting for something concrete, an A4' with the content of the plan and the passing on of it. Mr. Heerma devotes warm words to the polder again today...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u200	Mr Van 't Wout spoke of a declaration of love.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u201	Yeah, but that polder hasn't delivered yet. Mr Heerma is beginning to become a kind of polder-Romeo, who stands under the balcony with a guitar and serenade after serenade, waiting for the door to open and the SER princess comes up with her solution. However, his love has been unanswered for a year now. He's just standing there playing serenades, but nothing's been coming out of the polder for over a year. Love has to come from both sides, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u202	I can at least guarantee Mr Van Weyenberg that if I start singing under the balcony with a guitar, the SER will not be encouraged to achieve results. I will therefore spare us both and above all the ESC. In last year's budget debate, I made it very explicit that I did not want to lay down a calculated plan. I didn't mean to say this is the CDA idea, and anyone who doesn't find this is crazy. I have deliberately put forward an idea that was not a free beer, but in which, on the one hand, there was pain for different parties and, on the other hand, there was profit. On the spot, that was a good moment in the room, several parties, including D66, have said: yes, we must give this a chance. Mr Van Weyenberg said so himself. I was just having second thoughts when the President asked me if I had finished with this point. The last part of my paragraph on this subject concerned the question to the Minister whether he could give an insight into developments in the polder. Are there any results from that? We are still waiting for this moment, but I think it would be a very good thing if the polder could take the political lead on this dossier as well. I haven't given up hope and I certainly don't intend to sing serenades for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u203	That's what we remember. Mr Heerma mentioned a six-week pay-over period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u204	Eight weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u205	Eight weeks. That sounds like a concrete plan. I'm still looking for the bill, but I'm afraid I won't find it again today. Mr Heerma said a year ago that this acute problem must be solved. I praised him for that. I did not agree with him on thezzp elements, but I praised and supported his argument about pay-as-you-go; I gave the polder a chance. We're a year away, Mr. Heerma. What should I say to all those SME entrepreneurs who ask me when politics will solve this? It's been a year of unrequited love.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u206	What Mr Van Weyenberg says to these entrepreneurs is of course up to him. The main point is that the payment file has been on the table since the period before the previous social agreement. That's where politics hasn't moved on all these years. In fact, D66 and the CDA jointly attacked the VVD during that period because suddenly a risky social and risky professional came out of the sky. At least politics didn't get anywhere with that. With regard to thezzp part, I have made it very clear that this plan has both elements. It's not one thing, and it's not the other. There must be profit and loss for everyone. I think thiszzp part should be an integral part of it. I hear Mr Van Weyenberg shouting 'yes' from the Chamber, but the cabinet had been working on that file for more than two years and then it was concluded that it actually came up with nothing. Now Mr Van Weyenberg finds a year in the polder for a very long time and he called for the attack to be stopped. It is precisely because of the fact that all these taboos play in politics and everyone here or in payment of wages sees no problem or has declaredzzp taboo that politics has not come out all these years. Then I think that the polder still has the opportunity to withdraw the divided politics from that impasse. That is why I put this down last year. I also hope that's what the polder's gonna do. If Mr Van Weyenberg is very honest, he will see that the ESC has done so on various subjects in the past period. I remember child care, where D66 himself was very pleased that the ESC came up with something. In fact, over the last few years, we in the Permanent Committee on Social Affairs and Employment have postponed the discussion of a number of ESC reports because we did not have enough time to discuss them in the short term. That confidence in the polder might be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u207	I also read Mrs Schouten's article this morning. I read a real declaration of love in there to the polder. My party and Mr Van Weyenberg's would be guilty of polder-populism. Mr Heerma says that the polder must take the political lead. Just now he said he doesn't know if it's all that good with that Bbz. However, if the polder has been at the wheel somewhere, it is of course there. Indeed, how long does he want to wait for the polder in the entire file on pay-as-you-go payment? Is he willing to be in a new cabinet in case he plays a part in it, cut buttons, even if the polder isn't out? That is ultimately what we have been adopted for, namely to make decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u208	That accusation of antipolder populism was mainly directed at the VVD, although I do not want to clear Mr Van Weyenberg entirely of it. Then let's put that misunderstanding right here. D66 deserves a little bit of that. I see that Mrs Schouten does not entirely agree with that, so it is a significant part for D66. I have been corrected; I will not entirely exonerate Mr Van Weyenberg, but it is in any case I am looking at Mrs Schouten for confirmation to Mr Weyenberg above boss in this dossier. With the proposal to abolish collective agreements and not to declare them universally binding, the attack on our polder model has been fully launched and an Anglo-Saxon labour market has been chosen that we really do not want with each other. All those entrepreneurs Mr Van 't Wout mentioned in his first term are not served by that either. These are the same entrepreneurs who do not dare to hire people, because there are competitors who use methods that we cannot, that we do not want and that will get worse if we abolish collective agreements. Then back to the Economic and Social Council. The file on pay-as-you-go has been here for four or five years. A very small mouse was born by the coalition when the ibo-zzp report came. That wasn't much. Thezzp-dossier is the second part of the issue that lies with the ESC and there the taboos, especially among these two parties, are still very large. So that year at the ESC isn't that much. The fact that we have a lot of faith in that polder is also an experience from the past. The polder has been involved in politics much more often and has also brought peace and stability to our labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u209	Mr Heerma, this is not possible! Such a long response to an interruption is absolutely impossible. There are still 14 speakers after you. I didn't want to limit the number of interruptions, but I don't think it's very useful in this way. So I'm gonna step in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u210	You're looking at me very threateningly now. You look like you're saying it's your fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u211	I made this point to Mr Heerma. You were very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u212	You shouldn't look so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u213	Apologies, Mr. Van 't Wout. I just looked at the wrong guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u214	There are not so many taboos aboutzzp; we just don't think, like the CDA, that we should go and take away these people's self-employed deductions. But then about the point of sacrificing the polder. I'm fine with it. Mr Heerma has just said that he is critical of a rather crucial part of the social agreement. I am, by the way. That concerns the WWW. That is not one thing we want to continue with in the future. But how can Mr Heerma say that this polder should take care of it all, when he was just very critical of a part of the policy in which that polder was behind the wheel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u215	I was just able to give a very brief answer, but I am obliged to answer this question for a very long time. Mr President, before you intervene immediately, I am joking. We were already very critical of parts of this Wwz when we were being treated. I will come back to that in my speech. Nevertheless, we too voted in favour of this law. I also stated in my argument that the fact that there was support for this in the polder was an important consideration. I will now stop with this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u216	Thank you, continue. You can do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u217	If I try very hard. Can the Minister give some insight into the progress made in the polder on this important dossier with regard to the payment of wages in the case of sickness and arrangements forzzp'ers who not only require insurance but also an acceptance obligation for insurers? That's cancer, and that's the big problem. Any progress? The Minister has indicated that it should be on the next formation table. What's his image right now? When it comes to the functioning of the labour market, this also brings us to the question of labour market fraud. I refer to malicious constructs which can lead to a reduction in costs of 30% to 40%, which will force bona fide companies out of the market and at the same time exploit staff and play against each other. I know that this minister is a great supporter of the social-liberal thinker John Rawls. But labour market fraud makes it painfully visible where John Rawls is wrong. Rawls moves the principle of justice from man to a system. How do you build a just structure? But justice cannot be taken out of man. There is no system to be devised, not even under an auction or Ignorance, that can sufficiently arm itself against the unrighteous man for whom justice as a virtue has no meaning at all. I would like to challenge this Minister in his last budget debate but also to give him the opportunity to reflect on this and also to address the question of whether Talma from whom I gave a quote at the beginning of my speech did not understand it better in the end. So I look forward to the Minister's reflection on this. I come back to the need to restore values when it comes to integration. We can at least say that as long as we seek justice in a system rather than in the human being, one conclusion is clear. That is that the inspection SZW simply needs more capacity to deal with the practices that we have all seen in the past year. I call the hotel cleaning, the construction, the transport sector and so on. I have also seen that there are several initiatives to increase this capacity. I think that is a good thing, because it is urgently needed. That could put a race down. The hearing we held a few weeks ago raised an interesting issue about bogus transactions in the transport sector. I'd like to leave that with the Minister. I am talking about driving and rest periods and the inspections that are being carried out behind those service stations, about the degrading situations that you see there. Shouldn't that be stopped? The ILT said at the hearing that it would like more opportunities to intervene and enforce. How about this? Does she have these possibilities and does she not, or should those opportunities be given more? On the basis of the hearing, this was quite a dispute. I see Mr Ulenbelt watching, but I think he has noticed that there too. What's the deal now? Do they do it more in Belgium? Is enforcement in Belgium better, allowing drivers to emigrate and park across the border in the Netherlands at a gas station? I would like to hear a reflection on this on the basis of what we heard in the hearing. This brings me to the next issue on the labour market. That is the failure of the chain regulation, which was part of the Work and Security Act. You can see that for some people jobs have disappeared or the turnaround door on the labour market has started to run faster rather than certain jobs have been created. Now there's Mr. Van t'Wout already referred to it when you're in politics to accomplish things, something's achieved over the past year. For seasonal work steps have been taken that were badly needed. I have also expressed my appreciation for this, because it was really badly needed. When it comes to education, for which the Christian Union has also made repeated efforts, there is now a scout who can see if there are more tailor-made solutions. Indeed, classes cannot be sent home as a result of this law. However, can the Minister not go a step further in this debate? When it comes to reducing the chain regime from three to two years, there is a deeper problem. Again, this is about the growing gap between high-risk and low-risk labour markets. If you have a chance, you'll have a permanent contract after two years. If you're out of chances, you'll be back on the street after two years. We have repeatedly argued for multi-annual contracts here with Bram van Ojik and then with Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Voortman, because they can make a bridge between that temporary and that permanent work as opposed to bringing the chain back. Isn't this a good time to take that step anyway, to say that these multi-annual contracts will be possible? I'd like a response from the Minister. When it comes to the position of older people in the labour market, I can be quite brief. Colleague Van 't Wout has...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u218	Will you finish your sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u219	I have the impression that the question is about the previous point, and I just started a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u220	That's absolutely true. I hear you are very critical of the Work and Security Act. I also hear you rightfully express concerns about the complete madness of the labour market, where people have no right whatsoever and are faced with a lot of uncertainty. But then I wonder if you regret voting in favour of that law and whether you are prepared to make fundamental changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u221	Mrs Karabulut and I have had this debate a number of times. We voted in favour of this law because it contains all kinds of elements, which we did support. By the way, those were the parts for which the SP voted against. This concerns, for example, shortening the duration of the WW and adjusting the right of dismissal. Those were reasons for the SP to vote against. That is not something we want to reverse. The debate from the VVD is that this whole law has to be removed. There are good elements in that law, but unfortunately there are also bad elements in it. We have already mentioned some of them in the course of the debate, and some of them have created problems that no one saw coming, such as around the daily wage. Then it remains to be seen that there was a broad agreement in the polder on the basis of the bill and that the chance that the CDA would vote against it next time is still very small. However, I note that we have already amended this law three times in the past period and that further adaptation may still be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u222	I'm still looking. You are right to raise a problem, 500 000 permanent jobs have been lost and in sectors people are faced with false competition and unfairness. Are you willing to look at the next key issue? Flexic work and precarious work, unlike other temporary goods, should be a luxury product, whereas they are not in this case. It's way too cheap, so employers stick to it. Recently we were together with a whole bunch of young people, young people who want to build a future and start a family. They run at 30 years and work in the catering industry. These people just have zero-hour contracts. They can't afford a house, they can't build a future, and they just live with their parents. Is Mr Heerma prepared to support a concrete proposal from us, starting with banning zero-hour contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u223	Mrs Karabulut raises quite a number of issues in the second part of her question. With its demand, it is more likely to address the challenges to the labour market in the coming years than to focus only on the WWS. The latter is something the VVD likes to do. The problems in our labour market are large and are partly related to the fact that flex manufacturers can have a cost advantage of 10%, 20%, 30%, 40% instead of paying for flexibility. Many of the proposals that we support and which we initiate are specifically aimed at this. I was just talking about the proposal to make the payment of wages a more collective basic insurance in whichzzp'ers also participate. That is one example of proposals we are making to combat this kind of unfair competition. I would also like to mention the debate on the adaptation of the Detaching Directive. I understand that Mrs Karabulut has asked questions about this. The adaptation of the Detachment Directive is also necessary in order to combat this kind of unfair competition, whereby it pays itself to pay staff far less if they are flexible. So yes, we support this kind of proposal to counter this. At the meeting where we were together, I praised the young people for their commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u224	Just to clarify, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u225	So we're going to table a proposal together to ban zero-hour contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u226	When it comes to combating the race to the bottom in the labour market, we have partly the same goals. I'm not sure this is the most effective remedy, because it's one form you're dealing with. Part of it happened to the Wwz. You'll see there'll be other forms to come back. So I don't know if this is the most effective thing, but in terms of goals I think we are fairly right in the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u227	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u228	Mr. Chairman. I had joined the Action Plan 55PlusWorks. The interruption debate with Mr Van 't Wout has already shown that we are somewhat different in the competition with regard to the future of the labour market, the role of the polder and the question of whether love should be explained. However, I am enthusiastic about the plan that Mr Van 't Wout has come up with. We've been in touch about it since I heard Mr. Van 't Wout was working on it. I'm glad we caught this together. I hope the Minister will take a positive look at it. I don't want to make it very big. One example is to do something with the money within that programme to match a artisan economy in which shortages are going to occur with people who remain unnecessarily in the card bins. I don't think that's gonna take a lot of money, but you can do something with it in places where there are holes right now. I therefore hope that the Minister will respond positively. I go on to the Participation Act, a law to which we have had to recover and change a little over the past period in order to solve problems. I myself think that opening up the practical route, which we have just talked about in the context of a legislative proposal, is going to be very important. It will remove a lot of bureaucracy around the target registry. It increases the chances of a job. I am also curious about the state of affairs surrounding the candidate scout. We have had a number of debates on this subject. Together with the Christian Union, I have tabled motions on this matter. Now I read somewhere that a week or two ago the Secretary of State gave a kind of official signal to the UWV for this candidate scout, who makes the target group clear to employers and thus can answer the complaints from employers that they do want, but that they are not offered anything. Colleague Van't Wout was just talking about that. The kick-off's over. What is the image of the Secretary of State now? Does it lead to more matching between employers and employees? Are there enough people in there? And then a very important question: do the municipalities join the system? Otherwise, we'll be getting all kinds of different candidate scouts, and that would be a shame. Is she satisfied with what's now on the table? Is it also satisfied with the extent to which municipalities agree to this? If not, what would that be and what could she do about it? I would also like to point out a positive example of the Participation Act. It is also in line with the CDA programme, namely: should we not move towards social enterprises, towards a social enterprise law? I think that was discussed at length at the Cedris Congress last year. This would put companies that make a positive contribution to society in an extra position and create shared value. In this context, I would like to highlight BIZ-Platform NL. We have also discussed this in a general discussion. A number of places in the Netherlands in BIZ platforms are being experimented with the implementation of the Participation Act. I've been to Nieuw-Vennep myself recently. There you see all kinds of SMEs, including SMEs with fewer than 25 employees and for whom that quota is not at all in frage, doing their best to create jobs for people with some distance from the labour market in business areas or shopping areas. The principle is that everything must be produced and delivered locally. From the success of these first steps, a social enterprise will be started, in the form of a cooperative association, with the aim of getting all these hundreds of BIZ platforms in the Netherlands and making the Participation Act a success there, also by including companies that are not affected by a target group register or quota at all. I am very positive about this and I wonder if the Secretary of State also sees opportunities in this. Is it prepared to see what it can contribute to this? I am not talking about money, I am talking about what she can do to encourage this kind of fine initiative to be launched more nationally. I want to talk about poverty and debt. Mrs Karabulut has also addressed this in detail. I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. We have discussed this on a number of occasions in general discussions over the past year. Mrs Schouten and I then announced an initiative law to regulate a breathing break in debt, a broad legal moratorium. I believe that the Secretary of State said at the time that such an initiative proposal was not really necessary, because she herself was taking very big steps. I think I remember her saying that it would take effect on 1 January. It may be me, but I haven't seen this in the pieces we've been getting in the last few days, and there were quite a few. I saw that it was mentioned once in a passage about the national collection, but it did not say exactly what progress has been made and whether it will take place on 1 January. If so, I apologize to the Secretary of State. Should it not have been there, can the Secretary of State tell us here the good news that it will indeed be completed on 1 January and will start? Another point is children in poverty. We were offered a petition about that last week. The first proposal in that petition is a very sympathetic and not complicated proposal, namely: make sure that the children are involved with the extra resources currently allocated to poverty. I believe that this proposal is aimed at children in a very positive way, through the municipalities. Can the Secretary of State undertake to work with the municipalities to see how children can actually be involved? A final point in the field of poverty is in line with the previous report of the Church in Action. There have also been oral questions on this subject. One of the problems identified in this report is that it has all become so complicated that people no longer know how to find their way. On the other hand, I hear from municipalities that are very active in this task of municipalities, that they cannot find their way to these people. On the basis of that report, I ask what the Secretary of State can do about both problems: people who get lost, do not know their way and do not get what they are entitled to, but also municipalities who state that they are doing their best, but that there is simply a group that they cannot reach and do not have in mind. What can she do about both problems? ...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u229	You shouldn't look at Mrs. Karabulut invitingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u230	I will not serenade Mrs Karabulut either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u231	He's been doing that all along, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u232	Yeah, I saw that. That makes it difficult for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u233	Then you should not take an inviting look, because then the debate will take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u234	Mr Heerma mentioned poverty and then he looked at me. That makes sense, because we talk about this subject very often. But all the crazy on a stick. Mr Heerma mentioned the Anglo-Saxon model in the labour market. In social security, criminal laws have been introduced in recent years, which he has supported. I see now that he too sees the problem. Poverty is also a problem of spending, a problem of money. Does Mr Heerma recognise that, following the Churches, Defence for Children and the Ombudsman? Is Mr Heerma prepared to finally return some of the money that has gone from poor to rich in recent years, even during the crisis, to the people who are struggling, as structural solutions to poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u235	Let me start with those penal laws. I indicated in the first general consultation we had with then Secretary of State De Krom that I had serious doubts about the Fraud Act, which had been adopted in the previous period. It was not easy to put that there then, because we had been one of the few parties to support that law. After all, I am glad that I have already done so, because we have now, also by the highest judge in the country, flagged back, given that that law was not fair. We have had various debates here on poverty and the problems that arise. One of these problems was that the money earmarked for poverty policy did not reach the group. I just referred to that in connection with the report of Church in Action. It's important that the money you spend on that reaches the group. That is why I am very positive about what is happening now to focus the money on supporting children. I also say, following the report of the Church in Action, that make sure that these people get what they are entitled to and that they do not get lost and make sure that municipalities find them better. In my view, these are concrete steps to make better use of the resources available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u236	Those are all patch drugs. Every penny for poverty reduction is fine with me, but a total of 5 billion has been taken away from care and social security. The rich have simply become richer and the poor poorer. Is the CDA prepared to do something to solve poverty in a structural way, namely by making the poor a little less poor and, for example, by increasing benefits? That is an effective policy on poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u237	We have supported the cuts made in recent years more often than the SP. They were just necessary. Mrs Karabulut says the rich have become richer and the poor poorer. In my opinion, the purchasing power figures of recent years, this week in De Telegraaf, do not show that image. That has not been a sounding victory for the VVD in recent years. So I don't share that analysis. I understand that Mrs Karabulut does, because the SP and Mrs Karabulut voted against almost all of these measures. I don't think it's right to talk about patchwork. It is very good that efforts are also being made at municipal level to combat poverty. As far as I am concerned, the second cabinet package is better than the first. I'm joining the AOW raise. I was already interrupting Mr Van 't Wout about that and I was pleased with his answer. It is indeed strange that the number of complaints is increasing and the budget for the bridging scheme is a quarter of what was available before. And when the AOW age was accelerated, I and Mr Klaver van GroenLinks widened and extended access to that bridging regime in two ways. Nevertheless, the number of complaints has increased and the use of that scheme has decreased. This raises the question of whether people may not know enough about this scheme. Or maybe people still think it's a loan and therefore don't use it? Or did they take measures first, then knock on the door? You can still do that. Then the situation arises where the people who have raised their pension are not entitled to it, while the people who have taken out a loan are entitled to it. I also mention the power standard. If you keep this under review, and you see how high the number of complaints is and how little use is made of them, you have to ask yourself whether it is not even time to look at the scheme at all. We're having some pretty intense discussions in this house about the arrangements for Defense personnel. The discussions on this matter are rightly being held. But defense personnel aren't the only group involved, although it may be the most intense in this group. However, would the Secretary of State really like to keep the whole scheme under review, because of the almost paradoxical situation of widening access, increasing the number of complaints and decreasing use? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I wonder if the Minister can say that he will be able to deal with the problem of multiple leave with retroactive effect. I am very pleased that the problem that had arisen has been solved for the future. The CDA has worked on the amendment on this for a very long time. Then it is rather painful that in practice the opposite of what you have intended to do with it is happening. I would also like to see the problems of the past resolved. I do not think this is a very large amount of money, nor is it a very large number of cases. I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that he is now on a different path from that of the past few years in the case of parental participation crèches, and that it is indeed possible for existing parent participation crèches to receive childcare allowances. I find it rather complicated that it should be excluded for the future. I would also like the Minister to explain what that is about in the legal sense. Why is that the right choice? Why should this be refused if an eighth parental participation nursery is opened in Utrecht which complies with all the rules of the enforcement framework? Mr President, you have said that I have spoken for far too long, but I would like to talk about one more issue, namely integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u238	But before you go any further, Mr Van Weyenberg would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u239	With Mr Heerma, I am pleased that those seven parent participation camps can now remain. They were really threatened in their survival. However, Mr Heerma put this in the questioning form. For example, the GGD in the municipality of Utrecht says: if there is another eighth, that is fine with us. I am therefore particularly celebrating the rescue of the existing parental participation crèches. But may I understand Mr Heerma's question as follows? In fact, he sees no reason at all to limit this for the future. It is not going to be a great success, because parents have to do a lot of things themselves for such a parenting nursery. Does Mr Heerma actually say that we should not close the door to that now, apart from the question of whether this can be done legally at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u240	I do not understand that. Mr Van Weyenberg sums up rather well why I have asked questions about this. This is a very short answer, Mr President. I will now continue with the issue of integration. I believe that we have been calling too long in this country that things were about tolerance when it was actually about indifference. We can see that in the Netherlands there has been a horizontal society in recent years. In doing so, the abandonment of common values has become an ever greater problem, as society's upper layer reaps the fruits of a cosmopolitan world without borders, and above all a world without moral boundaries. The limits of the law apply equally to all. But those boundaries give much more space than the morality that has ever been shunned has ever been able to give to smart people who put their own interests first and want to promote them. Values and traditions were thus lost at that time instead of cherished. Newcomers in our society too often received the message: welcome to our "search it out" society. That's nice and nice for a while and goes well for a while, but slowly but surely the feeling is growing that something is wrong in society. Freedom and equality are excellent anchor points for the relationship between the government and the citizen. This concerns freedom of prosecution and equality before the law. But freedom and equality are not enough to build and maintain a society. That takes more than that. Because freedom can be used for good things, but also for bad things. And equality is only fair for equal matters. In letting go of all kinds of values, our society has rapidly evolved: from "you can know for yourself" to "search for yourself" to "mind your own business, as long as you don't bother me". Not only is this an important cause of the failure of integration policies to date, but it will also be in the way of integration if we do not address it. We need a joint cement, a shared value foundation. Last year I wrote a piece on this subject in the journal of our scientific institute with my group chairman. In it we talk about "healthy patriotism." I saw the minister in his campaign for the list leadership talking about "progressive patriotism." I see some similarity between these terms. That is why I am positive that he is expressing that ambition. I wonder if he is prepared to give more substance to this ambition here. I am particularly curious how it relates to the Van Dam motion on shared values. The letter has been repeatedly promised by the Minister, but I do not think we have him yet. This letter offers an excellent opportunity to do something with it. As far as the promise of letters that never come next is concerned, I have a little more annoyance with the letter on the approach and prohibition of anti-democratic organisations. I think this letter has been postponed four times so far. It has been expressly promised that we will get him for the budget. Mr Azmani has just asked for this. I'm a little out of patience on this file. That is why I am now going to work on an initiative proposal, which I hope to submit in the short term, in order to tackle and ban this type of dangerous anti-democratic club. This is already happening in Germany. In this connection, Mr Azmani referred to the Sharia organization De Ware Religion. It was banned in Germany last month. This has major consequences in Germany. This will be followed up. But it's not just about salafistic organization or sharia organizations. This is also about right-wing extremist organisations, as the NPD (National Demokratische Partei Deutschlands) may have the same fate in Germany in early 2017. So I am going to take the initiative myself, but I would ask the Minister if he could not have done more in recent years to tighten the border, to prevent the glorification of terrorist violence, to ban anti-democratic parties and to prevent bad money flows. At this point in time, it seems that the main intention is to come up with legislation. I'm asking the Minister what's in that bill. I'm gonna close with integration. I'll be very brief. On integration and the question of how successful it is, we received a letter in the spring with all sorts of figures. They weren't floppy. In the later letter we received, there were not so many figures. I have indicated this: I want to know what the situation is. In the letter we recently received, the additional figures for the first cohort that should have been completed in the first quarter of 2016, but not the figures I requested for the second and third quarters of 2016. So I ask the Minister if he will give us those figures, because they really reflect the state of integration at the moment. My last paragraph concerns a matter of concern. Mr Azmani has just mentioned it. If we look around this room, we can see where integration is going well. We see role models for boys and girls who do their best. I am talking here about the President of the Chamber himself, but also about various spokesmen who are present in this debate or in other debates. I find it characteristic of the state of current politics that these people are being mocked and dismissed from the political point of view. That does not happen from one side but from two sides. For the PVV they are never Dutch enough and by DENK they are put away and called "lootaas." As far as I'm concerned, these are two ugly sides of the same ugly medal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u241	This is the famous discussion that the CDA has been wanting to have everywhere, on the radio and on the left and right. DENK makes politics transparent. The people who use the CDA to get votes at mosques vote differently here than they said in the mosque. We make that transparent, open, honest. That's what DENK does, and so should you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u242	What DENK does is to appeal to MPs in this house, to people's representatives, to their origins, to their parents' origins, to their religions. That's ethnic profiling. That's exactly what the PVV does. I think it has just happened in this debate with Mr Azmani, who rightly says that he finds it unpleasant to be addressed in this way. If the PVV does it, it's something we all feel discomfort and displeasure about. But if DENK does it, a party that claims to be in front of the connection, there will be an extra edge of hypocrisy surrounding this ethnic profile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u243	I'm not going to say anything about the members who are clapping. But Mr Knops of the CDA stood there and called me Kuzu instead of Öztürk, while he is also a Limburg MP. Then he said, "They all look alike." That's a little xenophobic going with the PVV. This behavior, you approve. You'll be fine with that. At the moment when a number of baits who allow themselves to be abused in front of a party simply abuse, then vote differently here, and we make that tangible and visible, you have difficulty with that. I think you should talk to your colleague Mr Knops first when it comes to taunting colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u244	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u245	Yes, Mr President, on a point of order. I would like to ask you to intervene if colleagues are blacked out in this way. I don't want to put you in a difficult position either. I find this really disgusting. We had this in a debate with Mr Kuzu two weeks ago. I find it appalling that elected representatives are being thrown away by a party that claims to stand up for the connection, but ultimately is looking for importance and sowing more division.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u246	We are having a debate on content here. We don't talk to people in person. Those are the rules we agreed on. Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u247	I think we can also stand up for our colleagues from the Chamber. I think that a term like "locazen" is very inappropriate. I would also like to distance myself from this point of view. I would like Mr Öztürk, who says he is in favour of the connection, to say that this was not his intention. Then he'd make a real commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u248	In itself, you are free to expose clientelism, but I know only two people in this Chamber who have been guilty of this and that is Mr Öztürk and Mr Kuzu himself. Then they left their group. Well, at least call that a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u249	Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u250	Yes, Mr President, you let it all go, and when I say something, you always have a comment. I'm sorry about that. When it comes to clientelism, we make what happens here transparent. What I regret is that a number of Members of Parliament cannot stand us making what is happening here in this house transparent. We have also shown tonight who voted in favour of the motion on 'the long arm' and who did not. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u251	Mr Heerma, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u252	I would like to answer the question. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly referred to the fact that during the last AO, in which Mr Kuzu was present, we already spoke about Mr Knops, who made a mistake and apologized. What DENK does is targeted colleagues of Turkish or Moroccan-Dutch descent picking out and making suggestive videos about it with half truths and whole lies to address them on their origins and religion. I repeat that this is the other side of the same ugly medal, the same as the PVV does, but DENK adds an extra edge of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u253	Thank you. We're gonna suspend for dinner break now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u254	I give the floor to Mr Kerstens, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA Group. I appeal to everyone to be cautious in committing interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u255	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a domestic announcement. That communication is a little superfluous, because we have heard the interruptions by now, but my colleague Mr Marcouch is responsible for the 'integration' part, including labour market discrimination. For those of you who want to interrupt, just give me a moment. Whoever you are, whatever you do and wherever you come from, the Labour Party just wants good work for everyone. Just good work is work with which you can earn your living, with something on it and something on it. It is work that allows you to further develop yourself, in which you are insured against illness or accident and for your old age and in which you are protected from the arbitrariness of a boss or client. It is work that you can combine with your life outside of work and where you stay healthy. Just good work in a decent labour market, that's what the Labour Party stands for. A labour market where people are not seen as a cost item where you cut as much as possible, but as the largest capital in which you invest. A labour market where people do not have to work together to make ends meet at home, but which offers people perspective and more security than they do now. A labour market where people who are colleagues do not become each other's competitors and are played out against each other, but work together. A labour market in which people who need extra help to be able to participate are not on the sidelines, but simply able to get to work. In recent years we have taken important steps in the fight for a decent labour market, often shoulder to shoulder with the trade union movement and together Mr Van 't Wout has just said it with our coalition partner, sometimes a little bit and sometimes a little bit more to rejoicing and rejoicing. We were always supported by a large majority in the Chamber. I refer to the Act's approach to bogus constructions and the Chain Liability Act, for example in the transport sector. The big boys, for example the clients, can no longer look the other way in case of abuses or underpayment. They can now see an account for themselves. According to the trade unions, who have demonstrated these laws for a reason, that is a good thing. They welcome it and see it as a strong support in the back of foreign colleagues who often do not dare to open their mouths, because it gives them a one-way Warsaw. However, they see it mainly as a support in the back of the Dutch worker in the construction, transport sector and in many other places that are supposedly "too expensive" put aside; for you two Poles, three Bulgarians or four Romanians. We have taken steps with the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement and Labour Quota Act, which makes it increasingly common for people with disabilities to work in business and government, as colleagues between colleagues. After all, corporate social responsibility is more than Max Havelaar pouring coffee. We are also taking steps with the Top Income Standards Act, the strictest of its kind in Europe, so that it becomes clear that working in the public and semi-public sectors is about and not about earning. We are taking steps with the abolition of the statutory minimum wage for 21- and 22-year-olds and the substantial increase in the statutory minimum wage for young people under the age of 21. We take steps to improve childcare and leave arrangements, because you also have a life in addition to your job. We take steps by employing cleaners ourselves as a state government and by guaranteeing that people who work on piecework always earn at least the minimum wage. We are also taking steps with the Work and Security Act, which has been agreed with trade unions and employers. That law will make the right of dismissal fairer, so that not only the well-paid manager, but also the construction worker or the cleaning lady will receive compensation upon discharge. With this law, we are trying to set up a first dam against the flexibilisation of the labour market that has been going on in recent decades. Some say that flexibility is inevitable or even the solution, but according to the Labour Party it is certainly not; quite the contrary. Flex bet not because, for example, there is a peak and sick and you want and have to play with your company, but because it is the cheapest way to get people to work for you, is not a solution. It is a major problem for those who suffer from it, for those who see their own working conditions sucked down by it, for companies and industries that so eventually dig their own graves, for the labour market as a whole and for our society. Recent research confirms this: the desperate, hopeless and hopeless flex is particularly striking for those who can suffer the worst, for those who do not get it all as a gift in life, who have not received the most opportunities and who have not been able to receive the highest education, but who simply want to earn that sandwich with something on it and something on it for themselves and for their families. This flex does not fall down on those 79% of those present at a large conference of temporary agency agencies that was held recently. Although the praise of flex was widely sung there, all of them had a fixed contract themselves. The struggle for a decent labour market has not yet been fought, far from it. There's a lot of resistance to it. Ever new tricks, ever new cleverness, ever new constructions, ever new earning models to be as cheap as possible, to drag over the back of hardworking people themselves as much as possible. Utilised Philippines are on the truck. Underpaid Bulgarians and Turks are on the dock, and their Dutch colleagues are on the side. After graduating, young people can only work as an intern, because they can then be shipped off with a book voucher. People can do hard work for years, but they don't get a permanent contract. Callers must wait and see if and, if so, when and how long they are called up and therefore whether and, if so, when and how much income they get. They are people who have no certainty, but also no choice, no choice but to accept it all. In the labour market, a race to the bottom has been going on for a long time. We're trying to stop it. It's a race to the bottom where more and more people go under if they don't look out. It's about more and more people, but not everyone, so think of that 79% of just now. A division on and around the labour market is the result, a division between those who participate and those who are on the side, between those for whom thezzp-schap is the next step in the emancipation of the worker and those for whom the clock is turned back 100 years, to the time of the daily wages, where you have to wait with the hat in your hand if there is work tomorrow and therefore bread on the shelf. It is a division between the haves and the have notes, between the insiders and the outsiders, between the lucky birds and the unlucky ones. Such a division is unacceptable to the Labour Party and untenable to our society. We are doing what we can, but more needs to be done. The Labour Party also wants to do more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u256	A brief interruption and a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u257	Mr. Kerstens said: you have to wait if you have any work to do. I had to think of all thosezzp'ers who experience the consequences of the law of the cabinet, but that aside. In the list of the abuses that Mr Kerstens gave, I missed one. That is Mrs Hammer's call to ensure that payroll workers are equally rewarded. What has my surprise been sketching for months? This is always blocked by two parties in parliament: the VVD and, although Mrs Hammer is of the Labour Party, the Labour Party. Is Mr. Kerstens going to join that other line again? That would be good news for me today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u258	It is known how the PvdA thinks about payrolling. Following a very recent ruling by the Supreme Court, I questioned the Minister very critically whether he would be able to do or not to do anything about it. Earlier in the debate, Mr Van 't Wout has expressed it a few times, when it was about his own wishes that you can sometimes achieve completely and sometimes partly in a coalition, and sometimes there is something to be desired. The latter applies to the Labour Party when it comes to payrolling. She'd like to get on with that. At least, she'd like to put an end to payrolling. But as Mr Van 't Wout and his party are loyal to us as coalition partners, the Labour Party will do so at least until the election on the payroll dossier. However, I have asked the Minister those written questions and I will make some comments on them in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u259	If I remember correctly, Mrs Hammer's motion was even after the elections, so I find that somewhat strange. I can see why you're making compromises. I do not blame Mr Kerstens for that either, because compromise keeps our political system in place. But what I do regret is that there is a motion, which is about Chamberwide, that we can do something about it. That motion was supported by D66, GroenLinks and the SP. But now that motion disappears. So I understand compromise, but this is not in the coalition agreement and the Hamer motion was very sensible. Now performing a PvdA motion is blocked by the PvdA. That's very disappointing, isn't it? I therefore no longer understand where the Labour Party stands. Can we not have another small breakthrough before the elections on this point? That's still gonna work, right? After all, the payrollers are the only winners of thezzp law so far. That doesn't make Mr. Kerstens happy, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u260	If I could. I've indicated how we look at payrolling. Mr Van Weyenberg also knows that a set of agreements was made in the spring; Mr Van 't Wout already referred to this. The Labour Party supports these agreements. As far as we are concerned, the most important agreement was finally to abolish the minimum statutory youth wage for people 21 years of age and over 40 years after the introduction, and to substantially increase the salaries for young people under 21 years of age. If Mr Van Weyenberg understands as well as I do that life sometimes consists of compromises, he understands that we in that deal, in which for many people there are very nice things that affect a lot of people in their pockets, we could not agree on this. But don't worry: this is in our election program. If all the parties that Mr Van Weyenberg has just mentioned are still in favour of dealing with payrolling after the next elections, then we are going to do so together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u261	Mrs. Hammer's motion was prior to the deal. Then you'd expect that motion to be carried out at least. Shouldn't Mr. Kerstens be on top of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u262	We have, of course, put that motion on the table in those discussions, and we have indicated that, as far as we are concerned, that was a very good time to cash in that motion too. That didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u263	You did say that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u264	Surely it cannot be the case that other things have already been decided in the Chamber. Does the Labour Party actually say that decisions can be taken in the Chamber, but that the Labour Party withdraws its signature with proposals if the VVD says so? Is that what the Labour Party is now saying about payrolling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u265	No, it certainly isn't. This is the reflection of what Mr Van 't Wout just said about wishes that the VVD had wanted to achieve when we were all sitting at the table, including with social partners, among other things to implement some improvements in the framework of the Work and Security Act. Just because we didn't win that battle back then doesn't mean we started to think differently about payrolling. This can be seen from the questions I have asked, from our election programme and from the offer I have just made: if you all continue to think about payrolling in the same way as we do, there could be a majority after 15 March to deal with this phenomenon. A race to the bottom is taking place on the labour market. This race leads to a division that is unacceptable to the Labour Party and untenable to our society. I have already said that we have done something about this, that we are doing something about it and that we want to do more about it, not by looking the other way, and thus allowing the proverbial water to flow to the equally proverbial lowest point, not by putting that lowest point even lower, for example by allowing endless series of temporary contracts or by proposing to break down collective agreements and to reduce trade unions and passers-by, and not by taking away that certainty from all those who still have some certainty under the motto 'just as bad is equal' by proposing that the right of dismissal be reversed and then simply calling every flex job 'a fixed job'. It will break down our labour law under the motto 'you're looking for it all yourself', and from our social system many people will break up; that will break up our society. To stop that race to the bottom, it is necessary to set a standard, the standard that employers treat their people properly. The same applies to clients. The ideal of me and the Labour Party is to achieve this, not by breaking things down but by building a level playing field in terms of rights and obligations for workers and in terms of costs and risks for employers and clients. That is our ideal, but it is also necessary. Then honest choices are made on a decent labour market and then the uncertainty that eats people and our society is reduced. As has already been said, we have already taken quite a few steps, but more steps are needed. Part of that can and should be done already. That is why I ask the Minister to continue his struggle in Europe for equal pay for equal work even more firmly. If it is the rules themselves that ensure that one is underpaid and the other is out of competition, then those rules must be changed or they must be removed, first the Detachment Directive and then the rules that make social security contributions possible. This is necessary for a more social Europe. I ask the Minister to ensure that, in the forthcoming Brexit negotiations, for example, the Netherlands is firmly committed to removing wrong rules and to doing what I recently heard him say: stop labour migration if it continues to result in underpayment of one and road competition from the other. I also ask him, and again, to address our own rules that cause great differences in wage costs and thus contribute to the race to the bottom, starting with the expat scheme, which is more abused than used in newspapers, and the covenant between the Tax Service and the temporary agency industry, namely the ET scheme, which makes Dutch employees more expensive. I would ask the Minister to make the temporary extension of the Labour Inspectorate, which was agreed by the Social Agreement following a motion I tabled, structural and not just look at it in the spring. What we should do, if it's up to me, in the spring, is see what can and must be done on top of that. Good enforcement is the closing point, not the closing point, of an effective approach to abuses. In addition, like a number of other colleagues, I ask the Minister, together with his colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment, to look at how to quickly put an end to the degrading conditions in parking places throughout the country, where Eastern European drivers are forced to live in a truck for weeks and cook their pot on a camping stoll. During the round table which the Chamber had recently discussed about the abuses in the transport sector, it was clear to everyone that tackling them was one thing. When it comes to moving towards a decent labour market, I also call payrolling. I have already answered Mr Van Weyenberg's questions about this. The Supreme Court recently ruled on a payroll case. It is a statement with far-reaching and non-beautiful consequences for workers, who can be kept on an endless leash, so to speak. From the answer to the questions I put to the House on this subject, I would like to point out that the Minister, like myself, wants to do something about it. Is that right? Last week, in terms of the exemplary role of the government for a decent labour market, we created meters by obliging municipalities to create real sheltered workplaces, so that, for example, they no longer ship people with severe restrictions through daily spending on benefits but pay their normal wages. For some time now, I have been calling on the Secretary of State to oblige municipalities to step up their efforts to combat displacement in the reintegration of benefit recipients, sometimes turning flexicurities into ex-jobs. My proposal to require municipalities to check in advance for displacement, where someone loses their paid job because that job is taken by a free person, is always going too far. However, I would like to make the proposal again. Release the congregations in the way they shape that test. They can do this with a committee that includes, for example, trade unions and employers. They can also set up a hotline, as happened in The Hague. But at least obliges the municipalities to do so, to pre-check for displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u266	My question concerns the previous point. The Labour Party is now right to say that the so-called freedom of workers in practice leads to the freedom of workers through exploitation, repression and degrading situations in European countries. My question to the Labour Party is: is it now telling the Minister that we must restrict and stop the free movement of workers in order to regulate our labour market and that we are taking the lead in this? Or does she say: we are waiting and chasing Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u267	Definitely not the last one. We haven't done that in recent years. Before I got into the room, I just had a job. As chairman of FNV Bouw, I remember being invited here across the street by, among others, Mr Ulenbelt and a number of other MPs who were part of the Temporary Committee on Lessons from recent labour migration. I then broke a lance for opening our eyes to the shadows of the free movement of workers. I laid out a six-point plan. All these six points have now been realised in this cabinet period, together with the Minister and the Chamber, including in the Fake Constructions Act, the Chain Liability in Transport Act and the Working Conditions Act posted workers in the European Union. This dossier is now taking bigger steps than ever before. We are now, all of us, at last, prepared to look at and address the shadows of the free movement of workers. I have just asked the Minister not only to do so in the Netherlands, but also to make suggestions to him to take further steps in Brussels as well. I asked him not to be behind him, and that is what he is doing, not just to be in front of him. If it is not possible to change unfair rules and if labour migration remains a earning model, whereby one worker is underpaid and the other is competing away, he must also question labour migration. So we're not running behind, but we're doing it in the order in which it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u268	I just want to get it real sharp. In recent years, I have made three proposals for the re-entry of the employment permit and the regulation of the labour market. The Labour Party voted against all three times. Can I now count on the support of the Labour Party to take care of this, to put an end to this social misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u269	I still have a nuanced answer, I'm afraid. If we were to say here in the Netherlands that we are introducing a licensing system, that is something that we can issue here, put on paper and put on a motion, but which will not be implemented in Europe. You have to agree on such a decision together. Here's what I'm gonna say to the minister. Go down that route, walk down that route or pull a sprint that you have already started to adapt the Detachment Directive. Then take the so-called bonus hopping as well: I pay a premium in a country where that premium is hardly anything, so that I can put people to work a lot cheaper here. Use the Brexit negotiations, which deal with these issues, among other things. If you then finally have to draw the conclusion that, then draw the ultimate consequence. As far as I am concerned, this could certainly be the instrument of the employment permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u270	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u271	I just got into the Participation Act before the interruption. Crucial for getting started by the people for whom the law is meant, it is through municipalities and the UWV but especially before employers make insight into who someone is, what he can, what he wants and what it takes to get there, what one's talents are and yes, someone's limitations. With the newly presented candidate scout, an important step has been taken to this end, which I would like to take further throughout the country. That is why I call on the Secretary of State to provide additional funding for each of the 35 labour market regions. I will table an amendment on this with the colleagues of the VVD. In addition, I would like the Secretary of State to think about a number of tractors from the group of people for whom the law is intended to bring together employers and candidates in these regions. I have seen that nothing works as inspiring and exciting as real people who know what it's about and who give the target audience a face and a voice, to use that horrible word anyway. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if she's willing to think about that. Last year, my colleagues from the VVD and I supported additional resources to boost employment opportunities on the other side of the border. That's what happened then. Additional funding has also been made available for a specific sectoral plan for cross-border employment. I ask the Secretary of State again today, also on behalf of colleagues from the VVD, to see if there can be an additional boost for labour market regions at the border. There are opportunities for people at work. Let's make the most of it. As far as employment opportunities are concerned, I agree with what my VVD colleague said at the beginning about additional training for job seekers. The training vouchers that the Labour Party and the VVD have devised together are working hard, as it turns out in practice. Especially those with VMBO or MBO training benefit from it. So keep going, I'll tell Mr. Van 't Wout here. Just good work also means work that doesn't make you sick, that doesn't kill you. That is why, for example, the Labour Party has advocated an independent institute for occupational diseases. The Minister is discussing this with the parties and will come forward with a feedback at the beginning of next year. I am already asking the Minister to decide that occupational disease will become the central theme of the government's campaign on work stress over time. I would also ask the Minister to consider whether there can be a similar arrangement for victims of the so-called painter's disease to what we did for asbestos victims a few years ago. These are people who have the diagnosis of an occupational disease and have really taken everything out of the closet to get their rights. Sometimes they have succeeded, but sometimes they have run into a wall of insurers in particular. Could we help these people, Minister? The figures show that poverty is falling in the Netherlands. There are 150,000 families living less in poverty in a few years, says CBS. That's good news, but still too many people are in that situation. Since the beginning of this period, the cabinet has already released an additional 100 million to combat poverty. Last year there was a once-in-a-lifetime impulse to let children who grow up in poverty participate in sport and the like. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet announced last Princess Day that EUR 100 million will now be allocated once again and every year after next year to the children who are unlucky enough to grow up in poverty. Thanks to these EUR 100 million per year, the children in question can simply participate. They can go on a school trip, to the sports club and also buy a new winter coat. I ask the Secretary of State to ensure that all the good things that can be done with this money end up with those children. I ask the Secretary of State to draw attention to this and to launch a public campaign together with the partners with whom she has recently agreed on how that money can be used. If this is the case, I would also ask the Secretary of State for a firm follow-up to the recent exploration of Mr In 't Veld's debt problem. Before I close, I would briefly like to draw attention to the position of older workers. In the short term, I would like to see the extent to which they may or may not go with a new employer in the event of bankruptcy and a start-up. There's a lot of discussion about that. I have asked written questions about this a few times in connection with a number of major bankruptcies in the retail sector. I'd like to dive into that. I would also like to remind the Minister of the strange story that older people who lose their jobs a few years before retirement should continue to apply until that pension, while their colleagues who are unlucky enough to be dismissed for retirement in the last year do not have to do so. My request to the Minister is: agree to this and drop the application requirement for both groups. Finally, on this subject, I would like to ask what the Minister's views are on the possibility of extending the so-called IOAW scheme for older unemployed people who have been through a WW period without finding a job and who are then entitled to welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u272	I have a question about the Participation Act. In fact, I expected the Labour Party to come forward with a proposal this week or today at the Social Affairs budget debate to make the assistance more social: more room for additional income, less rules. That would be entirely in line with the proposal made by the PvdA group chairman last week. Why wasn't that in Mr. Kerstens' contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u273	Mr. Kerstens, this can be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u274	The very short answer is: because it was already in the newspaper. A slightly less brief answer is that we have not yet seen its ink dry recently, I think a General Administrative Measure passed which in any case could have gone further in the direction of what Mrs Voortman just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u275	What GroenLinks wanted was to do really well and not with such a strange intensification group. Mr. Kerstens knows that, too. In fact, we want what Mr Samsom said last week. I think it is a bit crazy if the chairman of the Labour Party said a week after my proposal was voted off by the Labour Party: it was actually a good idea. I also expect the PvdA to propose this when it comes to dealing with social affairs, and not to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u276	I think that Mrs Voortman was not necessarily very surprised by the letter sent jointly by the group chairmen of the PvdA and D66. I have never allowed a secret to remain about it that we would like to move on. Let us be clear: with the General Measure of Governance that we have just discussed, we have already gone a long way beyond all the previous years, in which this has not been possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u277	I have just expressed my concerns in my own term about the fact that the number of complaints about the bridging scheme is increasing in the case of the AOW age increase, while the use is decreasing. After an interruption, the colleague of the VVD Group also expressed his concern about this and asked the Secretary of State to take a closer look at it. Does the PvdA Group agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u278	Yes. We have been one of the initiators of the bridging regime. It is intended for people with low incomes who are confronted with shifting the AOW age. That's what money has been made available for, a lot of money. We find it a pity, let me just use that word, that the money does not go up, not because the money has to go up, but because it could be spent on people who need it. I therefore fully endorse the question put by Mr Heerma to the Secretary of State in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u279	Mr Kerstens spoke about exemption from the application requirement. One point in the current regulation is the fraction of D66, and many other groups too, a thorn in the eye. If you already have a job, but you don't start in that job for two or three months, you still have to keep applying. In the previous budget debate, if I recall correctly, a motion by the SP Committee was put to the vote by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr D66. That motion was then blocked by the two coalition parties. Something in me says that Mr Kerstens might ask himself afterwards whether that was wise. My question to Mr Kerstens is: 'I see the President looking, so I shall be very brief if he agrees with me that that is a little kafkaesque.' Shouldn't we take another look at this? This is weird, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u280	I have just asked a specific question to the Minister about something which is also a little kafkaesque, namely that two people who are in the same situation are faced with a difference, because one has to apply and the other does not. I would like to take a serious look at Mr Van Weyenberg's situation from this point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u281	That makes me hopeful. In fact, I think that there is something that might help Mr Kerstens to talk about in the VVD group too, because her election programme says that if you do an education with a job guarantee, you will no longer have to apply. That is actually even better, as I say to Mr Kerstens and also to the VVD group: you already have a job, in a few months' time. So let us stop forcing people to comply with all kinds of bureaucratic rules. I welcome Mr Kerstens' reply. Hopefully we can work this out tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u282	Mrs Karabulut has the floor for a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u283	The budgetary rules may have been followed in recent years and the budget may be in order, but the gap in society has grown enormously: between rich and poor, between young and old, between ethnicity and indigenous peoples. Would Mr Kerstens, looking back, re-execute the politics that the cabinet has carried out over the past four years? In other words, according to the PvdA Group, has the account of the crisis been fairly divided in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u284	We would have preferred the distribution to be different, but it is not the case that the VVD Group has gone down the hall and is still in the process of shaking the confetti out of its hair, as one of your colleagues just said to Mr Van 't Wout about the distribution of pain and purchasing power. I can tell you that it's not easy with the VVD as a coalition partner, but we did it together. The figures show that the account is distributed as fairly as possible. People who work and have low incomes have gotten the best out of it relatively. Is that what we're dealing with? No. Would I have preferred to do it differently? Yes. Could it have been done in another coalition? Yes. Is it reasonable to assume that there would have been another coalition like this four years ago? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u285	I find that, frankly, a rather shocking conclusion. When I ask the PvdA Group whether it should have done otherwise and whether the bill is fairly distributed, it is actually said that this is the case. When we look at the purchasing power figures that Mr Kerstens brings in, we see that the people with the highest incomes have improved more than the people with the lowest incomes. If we look at the situation in the labour market, we see that wages and incomes of disabled people have been taken away. 250,000 people are on the sidelines. When we look at business versus small and medium-sized enterprises, we see that the bill has been again paid to small and medium-sized enterprises. The PvdA fraction is either lost or really doesn't know what fair sharing means when you see that society is divided to the bone. You can't defend this, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u286	In reply to Mrs Karabulut's interruption, I will read out the last paragraph of my speech, which is about the facts. That's what Mrs Karabulut likes to talk about. That's what we just heard. The Dutch economy is the fastest growth in the euro area. Employment, which fell rapidly when the cabinet took office, is now growing more rapidly than has been the case over the past ten years. For the first time in our history, we have more than ten million jobs. The unemployment which rose when the cabinet took office and increased young people were at work. Older jobseekers find it easier to find a job again. Poverty is falling and for the first time in years more permanent jobs are being created, 48 000 in the last quarter alone. So after four years of PvdA in the cabinet, we are on the road to more work, and work instead of a benefit is the best guarantee for a positive purchasing power development. We must continue to focus on that, on more work. In our election programme, we are launching a plan for 100,000 jobs for the people who, to say the least, are disrespectful. In my second term, I will table a motion on employment opportunities, including those at the bottom of the labour market that will offer them a more sustainable economy in particular. It must also be more and more about decent work, about honest work, about whether you want to make things even worse for people or whether you want to offer them perspective and more certainty, whether you see more and more flex as a solution or as a problem, as inevitable or as a choice that can and should be different. That's what it's all about today, in the upcoming elections and beyond. The PvdA is clear in that respect. The race to the bottom through which more and more people threaten to go under, has to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u287	Were you ready, Mr. Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u288	I'm done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u289	I allow one question, Mrs Karabulut, because this is your ninth interruption. We're with the fifth speaker now. In this way, we cannot conduct the debate in an orderly manner. I'll allow one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u290	Thank you very much. I will certainly confine myself after this. This is a tear story, but the reality is different. Let's get some help. 73.000 more people have entered the welfare system, including disabled workers whose income has been taken away by the cabinet. The welfare has become a penal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u291	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u292	The question to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is: if it is still defending this policy, is it not just on the 20% side? Then Mr. Kerstens is doing nothing but defending the interests of Rutte's friends. Surely he can't think he's proud of those one and a half million jobseekers and those 500,000 permanent jobs that have been lost?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u293	I am proud of the figures I have just mentioned: the fastest rising employment and the fastest falling unemployment in almost as many years, more young people at work than in the last seven years and older jobseekers who find it easier to find a job. I'm very proud of that. That doesn't mean that all the problems have been solved. I hope that Mrs Karabulut has listened to my story and heard what our concerns are and what our commitment is to improve it. I just heard Mrs Karabulut mention the 80% again. When I was sitting in my spot, I was browsing through a few states with purchasing power records. In spite of the fact that we have had the worst post-war crisis, we have made an 80% increase in this period. The purchasing power plates are far from ideal! They are a lot better than they were, for example, in the Rutte I cabinet. I'm proud of that. Now I'm gonna sit with my arms all over each other because it's all taken care of? No. Are we going to make as many agreements with our coalition partners as has happened in recent years? I don't think so. We'll go for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u294	Mrs. Karabulut, you may correct something, but I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u295	This is from a McKinsey report which shows that 80% of the Dutch' disposable income has deteriorated in recent years and that 20% of the Dutch' income has improved. The purchasing power figures, including those of the cabinet, also show that you have given the people with the highest incomes more than the people with the lowest incomes, because you took the benefit recipients. Do you remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u296	I'm fighting that, but I'm just saying that I never expected the SP to get its arguments from a McKinsey report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u297	Mr. Chairman. When we ask each other how we're doing, we tell each other how we feel. The numbers say it's going well. Now that we have overcome the crisis, our level of education has increased and employment has grown, we are looking at our society with new eyes. There is every reason to seek out the unity and unity that has traditionally made our country strong, to fight against what undermines our empathy for each other and hinders integration. I refer to indifference, intolerance, fear and discrimination. Integration arises when we build a relationship with our country. I now see two groups that have difficulty with that. Firstly, the young people with a migration background, which we find too often in the wrong lists even after the crisis. Secondly, I would like to mention the low-literate Dutch 50-plussers who have gradually fallen behind. This is what I am making a contribution to today's budget debate. The question is how do they connect? I like to ask successful young people what made them successful, because I also like to give this to others. The answer is almost always: my parents. They tell how their parents went to school, to the sports field and, if necessary, moved for them to better neighbourhoods. When the parents were absent, they found a school teacher, a soccer coach or a youth worker who believed in them. That goes for me, too. My teacher Herma took me to the library and visited my father at home to support him in my school career. I'm telling you this because it means that teachers are crucial in education. Teachers do well to get behind the front door. When teachers, youth workers and other educators help parents, they jointly build powerful coalitions to form new generations that make our society strong and happy. I have called such a coalition the educational district, with the inspiring motto: it takes a village to raise a child. It happens, and that's hopeful. For example, at the House of Peace in Almere, where I recently visited. That is a wonderful name for youth workers who raise children in the language of peace, with the competences they need to achieve peace in our society. I think they'll really appreciate it if the Minister comes along. I would also very much like to hear the Minister tell us what other initiatives he has visited, which can be called 'pedagogical districts'. They could be the beginning of a new civilisation offensive. Essential in such a civilisation offensive is the mutual empathy. How nice it would be if in Hilversum the cops had understood the fear of the Jewish mother who called the police a few days ago when her car was scratched with a swastika. Empathy makes the police understand the concern, realizes that this is more than simply vandalism, sees the priority of discriminatory violence and goes right on the spot and starts a neighborhood investigation. The great sadness of our young people with a migration background is the discrimination that hits them on the labour market. When they contact me, I often invite them to our house of democracy, where they are slightly desperate to ask me what more they have to do than get diplomas and work hard in many side jobs. They recognize themselves in Gamze Gül, who had recently been invited to Pathé after she had been invited to her home, and that is very sad, her name replaced by "Hanneke." Gamze wasn't welcome, but there was a job for Hanneke. This appeals to a great fear, which we see among almost all population groups in the Netherlands. That's the fear of loss of identity. What can we do to take that road? People have multiple identities. It helps, for starters, when we put it out. We humans are like trees, with multiple roots bundling into a large and strong tribe that stands as a person to provide support to fellow human beings, with leaves that give shade and fruits that feed us. If we have to reject part of our identity, it is as if we cut off a root from the tree. As the tribe shakes, so does a man become insecure. It lacks self-confidence and the strength to be meaningful to our society. The question now is how we give these trees the space to take root in this fertile land called the Netherlands. How can we create the best climate without discrimination that kills the roots as a poison? The consequences of discrimination are so undermining, so undermining for society and so persistent, that I am in favour of applying anonymously, as a horse's tool, until we manage to assess applicants as individuals and not as representatives of categories. It seems to work that we all leave our name out of our application letters, even if we are called "Halina" or "Casper," so that we can individually show our abilities in a personal interview. What is the Minister going to do to apply the results of the four pilots to our own state services? Diversity is good for our government organisations, says the previous motion by Mrs Van Miltenburg and yours truly. The quality of the public sector is improving and services are becoming accessible to large sections of the population. Just like we say the Netherlands administratively this in a plea for what is called 'the accelerated movement'. This vanguard has a good shot at what makes the Netherlands prosperous and successful. Even those who say: there is a large group that does not come along because of a low level of education, social class, lack of integration and participation or based on age and not rarely a combination of this. We can't afford that. If we are to be successful as the Netherlands, we need everyone. I therefore conclude that the Dutch administration will be happy to respond to an inspiring invitation from our minister to express how important it is for all employers to work against polarisation and for solidarity. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the umbrella of employers and employees also respond to this call. I would also like to hear how organisations are being corrected that seem to be countering diversity, according to reports of labour discrimination. As far as I am concerned, they will be given enhanced inspection supervision. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can do so with the five inspectors he has so far available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u298	Mr Marcouch is in the old politics: integration, integration, gratitude, gratitude. He then says "anonymous application," so denying your origin, your name and your identity. Then he thinks he'll solve the problem. He keeps the same story about parties. Mr Marcouch says that there is discrimination there. I am thinking: ask the Minister and your own party colleagues what we are going to do with these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u299	If Mr Öztürk really wants to combat discrimination, we can also be a little more constructive towards each other. My plea is as follows. Of course you have to set a standard. The law is clear: discrimination is a crime. If we can catch an offender, we have to punish him. That's one side of the story. The other side is that we can help young people, for example by applying anonymously. I'm not saying it's the solution, but it's a way to get into a company. It is a way to change the mentality and culture in a company and to promote awareness. Ultimately, it's about helping young people enter businesses. I think that is what Mr Öztürk is about. I admit this is horse medicine. I'm the first to admit that, but it's a way that turns out to work. It would be crazy if we didn't use it and just hammered on punishments, punishments, punishments. That's just one side of the story that doesn't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u300	I do not think this is the first time that this issue has been discussed. Can that be true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u301	It's the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u302	I was raised decently, Mr. Chairman. I get a question and I answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u303	A debate on discrimination and racism is scheduled for next week. So we're gonna do it all over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u304	Mr Marcouch says it's a means of getting in. These boys and girls were born here. They're already inside. What you're doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u305	What Mr. Marcouch is doing,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u306	...is punishing the victim. But you don't want to take on the unsub who knowingly won't hire someone with a background. That's exactly where it goes wrong. If you keep a story about integration and gratitude, we won't get anywhere. When is the Labour Party going to have the guts to actually tackle the perpetrators, the managers of human resources and the entrepreneurs who deliberately discriminate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u307	You must have some nerve. I'm just trying to connect with the colleagues here to use tools that help applicants. I agree with those colleagues who say that it is not the best way. If you have a better way, I'll keep my recommendation. However, you cannot say that we are not committed to the fight against discrimination, because we are doing so personally. We personally go to the police with victims to report it if we can't. The Minister speaks personally to companies. We have a blacklist of companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u308	Mr Öztürk, Mr Marcouch has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u309	... and the Minister has an action plan containing at least 48 action points. I challenge Mr Öztürk to present better ideas here. After all, he will be speaking later. What we want, and I hope to find colleagues on my side, is to find ways of getting young people into a business, whether through diversity policy, applying anonymously, teaching them competences or calling on companies to do nothing about it. What matters to us is that discrimination ends in the end and that young people, because of their talents, because of who they are and because of their qualities, can participate in the labour market and get the job they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u310	Let it be clear that it is also important for the VVD that everyone, regardless of origin, gets a maximum chance to participate and get a job. However, it is quite important not to mention your origin and your name on an application.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u311	I have to interrupt you for a moment, because there is a discussion in the benches and that is very disturbing for the people who are speaking now. Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u312	For me, the question is whether this project in The Hague has been such a success. In my opinion, the success was that 30% more people with a migration background have applied compared to 2015. The invitations, which Mr Marcouch said was his floating spring, have actually only risen by 0.9%. How great is this success, then, if you have to deviate from the principle that one should not deny one's origin in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u313	I think putting this away as "disavowing your origins" is really what I'm looking for. This is a pragmatic solution to a problem, discrimination in the labour market, which is now there, and which I find much more devastating. I just mentioned an example, and that is not the only example. It's exemplary for what happens to a lot of people. What you see happening, including Pathé, is that you will be invited if you mention another name. If you don't mention a name at all, then your competences will be looked at, your resume, and you will be invited. You're breaking through something, because I'm assuming a lot of employers don't discriminate at all knowingly and knowingly. You at least create awareness among the employers and help young people to enter and present themselves. I hope we won't need that in the long run. That's the ambition. It's very sad that it's necessary right now, but I think we really need to do that now, because it helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u314	The answer must also be brief, Mr Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u315	Again, 7.1% were invited in 2015, before the start of the project in The Hague. Only 8% of young people with a migration background were invited after applying for a different name. So the difference between 7.1% and 8.0% must be the great success, on the basis of which we say that we should all apply anonymously? Mr President, no way!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u316	I hear Mr Marcouch talking about applying anonymously, at least not using your name if you have a non-Western name. In other countries there is a similar system, where it is forbidden to mention your date of birth, precisely to help older people to work. Would Mr Marcouch therefore welcome that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u317	Discrimination on the labour market, of course, also affects age groups. The point is that we start a pilot to see if this is working properly at all. Mr Azmani is right to make critical comments, but we have only carried out a small pilot. Yet we see that people are invited when they use a different name. I don't want young people to have to go through this kind of humiliation all the time, when you can just choose not to name names at all and maybe not at all age, but well, that seems to me to be a different discussion. Age discrimination is also discrimination. Let's start with the government just do it to see if it works. I think it will at least help to raise awareness among employers, in this case the government. The second group of stragglers I mentioned, the 50-plussers, has been nestling in my head since I saw a reportage at Nieuwsuur about a Rotterdam district that many of us can think of very well. There was a memorable scene in there that I'll describe. "How are you?', asked a journalist for residents in the Afrikaanderwijk. "Bad," said an older pub visitor. Only 10% Dutch in his apartment and the rest of the names he can't even pronounce. "I'm a PVV man, out with that cancer mess!""Good," said the athletes in the boxing school a little further. Less crime, more training and more work. "How about that?', asked the reporter. "I just spoke to people who are getting worse." A Moroccan-Dutch athlete responds. "Who say that? White Rotterdamers? In a bar? On a Monday afternoon? At noon? They don't work. Yeah, it'll get worse, buddy." There is too large a group of elderly people who are no longer in the race. They are low-educated and under-educated. These people too are left behind in our society and end up in isolation. I'd like to record it for them, too. What is the Minister going to do for this particular group with very specific problems? We have heard more about the 50-plussers today, but this is a very specific group with specific problems, which I believe needs a specific approach. Of course, it includes reading and writing. After all, anyone who masters the language, I also say to my colleague, Mr Azmani, who establishes contacts and establishes friendships and relationships. Where relationships are built, integration arises. That is where acceptance arises, I say to Mr Öztürk. That is why I am pleased that the Minister has managed to get refugees to receive one language lesson, so to speak, from day one. "Wide sowing" I call such an offensive against division, from education to employment. "Wide" I learned from a remonstrant minister in Slotervaart. The sower doesn't calculate where it sparingly plants some seeds. No, he constantly creates his hand full of seeds, stretches out his arm and spreads the seeds wide and wide throughout the country. For example, I see the minister, who resists poison, storm and hail to inspire as a generous sower a more beautiful life in a prosperous country, in which all Dutch people can participate and contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u318	Mr Marcouch has spoken praisefully about this Minister, but there are also a number of facts. In Morocco, this minister took child benefit and widows' and elderly's money and did not send money to the people who live in the Sahara for their AOW, but sent money to occupied areas, to settlers. What does Mr Marcouch think about this minister taking money from the Moroccans and sending it to the people who live in occupied territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u319	I've been trying to connect all night, but of course that connection can only be made if you're sincere, if you're honest and if you're telling the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u320	Facts!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u321	Mr Öztürk, you ask a question and Mr Marcouch answers. Then it's neat to listen to the answer. Then you will have the floor again to ask for something or to make a comment. That's the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u322	It is not true that this Prime Minister has taken funds from Morocco. That's a real lie. I've been to Morocco personally. By chance, we were there with the Security and Justice Commission. I've spoken to a lot of those remigrants personally. I've spoken to all those people in Berkane's remigratory center. I heard that they were pleased with the agreement reached between Morocco and the Netherlands. In any case, the benefits of the people who are receiving them are not paid at all. Mr Öztürk really has a big stage here. This is the highest organ in the country. I am very sorry that he is spreading poison and fear here via the microphone. That's what I was talking about. We should not do that, Mr Öztürk. You and I must promote harmony, stability and connection in society. We shouldn't lie to people, because we'll scare them. Don't do that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u323	There's a lawsuit against the minister for breaking the law. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u324	Mr President, if so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u325	I'm not finished yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u326	Mr Öztürk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u327	I say again: the Minister has been charged with breaking the law. He's been sending money to territories and breaking the law. Mr Marcouch let it all happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u328	For the record, there has been no report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u329	There's been a complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u330	Yes. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u331	A complaint has been filed by a number of lawyers because the Minister has broken the law. Mr Marcouch is trying to ease the pain in the Moroccan community. These are facts. Money was taken and money was given. I understand your position, Mr. Marcouch. You want to be high on the list and come back to the Chamber. You just have to swallow and defend the minister. I get all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u332	Mr Öztürk...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u333	For once in your life, just try to say what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u334	I'm gonna end this. Thank you very much, Mr Marcouch. I call Mr De Graaf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u335	I would like to comment on this for a moment, Mr President, because I am being called rotten fish. I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman, to serve you. In the Netherlands, we say: as the host is, he trusts his guests. I really hate what you're doing, Mr Öztürk. It's not about me, because you don't touch me. I've known you a lot longer. But I really hate that you are wrongly scaring vulnerable people and using them for any purpose. The rights of these people are guaranteed in the treaty concluded by the Minister with Morocco. I'm talking to these people. There's nothing wrong with that. You don't need to scare them unnecessarily. You mustn't create fear. That doesn't fit you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u336	I call Mr De Graaf. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u337	Mr President, another subject. Our pension system is the best in the world. That's why the PVV doesn't understand that there are people who want to tear it down. Smash what doesn't have to be broken: that's politically correct logic. In fact, what we need to preserve is being demolished. We used to see it happen in the privatisation of rail and mail. We saw it when social cohesion and identity were demolished by internationalism, globalisation and "EUisation." And now it's pensions. I wonder, is it ever enough for the elite? Is it never enough for the elite who insist on being a citizen of the world and looking down on people with a more locally oriented pattern of life, i.e. the common man and woman? Why do modern thirties today, or at least some of them, sow fear in the retirement hearts of other Dutch people? Why do they miss out on older people's money? How dare you if you only save a few years for your pension, to claim the pension reserves of the people who have built up these reserves? Where do you get the guts to hit your peers in the armor against the elderly because you just want to take advantage of yourself? Because it's just a small group that scares a large group. To all those who are watching, I would say don't fall into the trap of that young globalist elite. I say this to all normal workers, who want to shape their lives and jobs in a decent and honourable manner, without wanting to get money that is not theirs. If you roar enough often that money of young and old would not fit into one pot, then there are always people who will believe that at some point. But it's fact-free fabrications. Money from old and young can be put in one pension fund, because it is mainly money from old and high school. Young people, above all, still have to build up. There's still money left every year. Young people who have barely laid anything in should mainly work and do their best. They must have confidence in the future resilience of our pension system, as middle-aged people do and the old people of days have always done. The pension fund of more than EUR 1,200 billion is only owned to a very small extent by the 30 to 35 year olds, for example. Their claim to the money of others, especially the elderly, driven by a small group of globalist fear-mongers, is brutal and unjustified. That is why I call on the Secretary of State to use her influence in retirement countries in her absence as Secretary of State in order to get the healthy Dutch sobriety back in the pension debate. Where money comes in through deposits and investments and where that money is more than there is to be paid every year, you have money left. That's how simple the math is. Where long-term calculations have been made for years, and will continue to be so in the future, we hope that with very cautious returns, a crisis can be overcome. In fact, the crisis that started in 2008 proved that. The pension reserve grew against all tribulation by about 50%, from 800 billion to more than 1,200 billion. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Also unjust is the calculation system, which calculates the coverage rate for pension funds. That system is based on distrust. Pension funds need to be poor. They are obliged to do so by this system. This is not only illogical, but also absurd and detrimental to the purchasing power of the ancients of days. If you look at the calculation system, you'll find Russian roulette playing to the best and richest pension system in the world. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Is it prepared to see that the calculation rate system is not correct? It is also wrong that the AOW age is constantly being increased, as has just happened again. The Dutch will soon work the longest of all Europe. Let's be clear: working is beautiful, working is beautiful. Building something together, that's great. Working together on a beautiful Netherlands, we became big with it after the war. We have achieved a great deal as a country. But more and more people are wondering at the moment: why? Who else am I doing this for, except maybe for my kids? In Belgium, everyone works seven and a half years shorter than in the Netherlands. In Italy, people work ten years shorter than in the Netherlands. In Greece, hardly anyone works anymore. And where's our money going? Right, to Brussels, to Italy and to Greece. The Netherlands is working the Rambam but is punished for this by the Secretary of State. Brussels and the southern countries benefit. "After the work done, it is good rest," it used to be called. Was it a good rest, I say now. More and more people will soon die in the armor, while a Greek official has been drinking ouzo in his hammock paid for over 15 years. This injustice, because that's what it is, must stop acutely. 65 has to be 65 again. I also like to get a reaction to this. I will move on to a few issues concerning the Minister. Minister Asscher was once alderman. He was alderman of the great ideals in Amsterdam, in 020, but he always found out that his ideals didn't work, that they were overtaken by reality. It often hurts on the left side. And soon he moved on to his next wish dream. The successors then sat down with the fried pears. The Westermoskee, which is now a hotbed of the Muslim Brotherhood, received almost 7 million grants, which is about taxpayers' money from the minister's government, then alderman. He turned the capital's financial situation into a chaos, rewarded criminals of the Walls by buying them out with a bag of money that now all live on the French Riviera of taxpayers' money and youth care got worse. It's a big deal. That maladministration in Amsterdam was rewarded, because that is PvdA logic, with the second most important post in the cabinet. What has the Minister in the Cabinet achieved over the past four years? Well, I've got a list of about 13. Here we go. Hang on. Unemployment has been increased unnecessarily. That is what the Dutch Bank, the WRR and also an ING report state. Everyone is talking about recovery, at least, the people responsible for the disasters of the last four years, applauding the fact that we are now getting off the bottom of the well; I understand that, then the percentages are high and you can protect with them, but it is still misery, but the recovery is fragile and also gives a distorted picture. The AOW age continues to rise. I told you. A lot of people have a retirement hole and also an AOW hole. Pensions have not been indexed for a long time. The Work and Security Act, or the Flex Act, creates uncertainty for employers and employees, for both. Total chaos. There has been a fall in income for tens of thousands of families. It still exists, and often after, so, unnecessarily long unemployment. The Minister's sectoral plans, yet his crown jewel, are a total failure, we can read from SEO on behalf of Social Affairs and Employment, just like all other PvdA job plans from the past: milking jobs, Den Uyl jobs, you name them all. They always cost a huge amount of taxpayers' money, but they don't solve anything. 600 million for the sector plans and I believe they have created 300 jobs. If I calculated correctly, that would be EUR 2 million tax dollars per job. What a success. According to research, point 7 of Maurice de Hond in 2014 a majority of Dutch people find integration unsuccessful. 82% designate the PvdA as responsible. It was of course the VVD that allowed it. The number of successful citizens lags far behind the planning. No one will be sent back by this minister. Nobody pays back the loan they get from him. Non-Western immigrants are increasingly overrepresented in assistance. More than 60%, 62%; 3.7 billion, if I am correct, goes to non-Western immigrants every year. Add that up for ten years, what you can do about that. We give that money away for free to people who enter the open borders for free. That number is still growing, as many asylum seekers from Muslim countries are still coming in, mostly after-travelers. In Tilburg, for example, 80% of asylum seekers end up in assistance. In other municipalities, it's not much better. Point 10. Among others, Moroccans, Syrians and Eritreans are up to six times more likely to be suspected of a crime than Dutch. Then the point about Black Pete. This minister is working with immigrants to put a bell on his neck. In fact, the Minister, without any democratic control, did indeed, without any democratic control, submit four backrooms with mainly state broadcasting and some other Dutch cultural haters to destroy the Dutch cultural hero, a folk hero, a piece of heritage, namely black prick. That's the minister. Jews and gays are also having an increasingly difficult time in the Netherlands. They are increasingly discriminated against and threatened. The voter will take care of this PvdA-debacle on 15 March. In the run-up to a debate like today, you also get the newspaper reports. We read yesterday, I believe in De Telegraaf, that perhaps the Minister is going to make a plan that a next cabinet might have to do something with. That's how concrete it was, but it was three pages. I think that's good! Congratulations, all right. That's nice for such a campaign, but of course nothing happens. And it keeps happening. Nor does the Minister want anything to happen, because he has indicated before, in his Amsterdam period, that he is fighting hard for an Islamic pillar in the Netherlands. So he doesn't want to reduce that at all. Imams from Turkey do not have to burgeon; the Minister told us yesterday. That was the most nasty package we were allowed to unpack last night on package night. A bishop from ancient Turkey must not bring his own helpers. "Black Piet must be broken." But an imam from Turkey gets all the help from the minister. That is the state of play. I get the impression that this minister has done the wrong things with four years of hard work and does not want to give anything back to the Netherlands. He gives nothing back to the Netherlands, while he owes so much to the Netherlands himself. I come to globalisation, also known as globalisation. A lot of people are worried about that point. For example, what does the trade agreements that the EU is working on on behalf of the Netherlands with other countries, such as CETA or TTIP, mean for the jobs of the people at home? If we continue with these trade agreements, we will ensure that our sovereignty is further stripped and that the middle class in the Netherlands will be even more under pressure. I am talking about farmers, gardeners and fishermen, my own origin, because they are often about food. They will lose their livelihood. Bilateral trade agreements are fine, but this does not apply to large-scale EU treaties. A social collapse that we do not see in the figures is in progress and globalisation or globalisation will strengthen it. The elite do not know the families whose father and/or mother has been unemployed unnecessarily and unnecessarily in recent years. The elite do not know the people who have been chased out of their homes unnecessarily, because of unnecessary financial difficulties caused by this government. The elite do not know the concerns that play at many kitchen tables. The elite do not know the people who were forced to become zzp'er, for example the 80,000 people of care. People often had a job four years ago, but got two or more worse paid jobs in return. A lot of people, including the minister but also the PvdA, call that a success, but we call that theft. Aart Jan de Geus, the President of the Bertelsmann Stiftung, who mapped out concerns about globalisation, gave advice to continue globalisation in particular. He literally said about the consequences: as many people as possible should benefit and as few people as possible should suffer damage. We find it strange that the elite should continue to do so. It is acknowledged that there is damage, but we must continue. Few will benefit; this has always been proven in the past. We say: do not continue to destroy jobs, sovereignty, identity and security; first stand up for the Netherlands. Does the government share my view that there should rather be a reverse movement, in which we say to each other: buy Hollandsche where, then we help each other? Let the government start with that and set a good example. We therefore protect Dutch jobs. The destruction of the textile industry in Twente still leaves its mark. Unemployment in Twente is still higher than the national average, although it has been improving a little lately. That's because we gave the jobs to China at the time. It is therefore a good thing that the population worldwide, but especially in the Netherlands, is increasingly rising up and resisting global elite and its predatory policies. On March 15, people will have the chance and they will seize it. They will take back the Netherlands. That brings me to my last point tonight: Islamization. We have already put forward many proposals for de-Islamicisation, but this minister has indicated quite clearly before, as I have already said, that he wants an Islamic pillar in the Netherlands. Asscher is the biggest friend of Islam in the Netherlands. It's time for a new minister. I would like to ask the Chamber tomorrow in the second term for a ruling, a ruling on the Muslim Brotherhood. The Muslim Brotherhood is one of the largest movements worldwide that seeks to Islamize the whole world by infiltrating governance, governments and governments and by sponsoring terror. This organisation is at least as dangerous as salafist organisations and cooperates with them, not only with Hamas and Al-Qaeda, but also with Milli Görüs and the AKP in Turkey. In a number of countries, the Muslim Brotherhood is on the terrorist list. In the United Kingdom and even further over the lake, in America, there is also work on a status of that club on the terrorist list. We must also open our eyes in the Netherlands and map out the Muslim Brotherhood, so that it can end up on the terrorist list here too. This will in any case contribute to the de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. For now, I'd like to stick with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u338	Mr. Van't Wout has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u339	Still scored, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u340	First the PVV ran away and now she runs again all evening to say what is not right. Today we are talking about a budget of almost EUR 80 billion. And nothing is right, for example, about the labour market and so on. Where are the PVV proposals? I hear the familiar squeal of Islam. We have discussed very important issues here. We may all think differently about this, such as pay for illness, chain determination and so on. There's 80 billion in this budget. Mr De Graaf is standing here screaming that none of this is right, but this is his chance. Come and introduce me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u341	I don't think I've heard myself scream; I don't even have the voice for it. I find it rather brutal of the VVD, after four years of being responsible for degradation policy, to turn such a big mouth against a party that has been coming up with proposals for four years, which the VVD and the PvdA do not want to listen to. I also just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u342	How many amendments are you going to table, Mr De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u343	May I please finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u344	Mr De Graaf has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u345	I understand the VVD feels pressured; then you're gonna yell weird things in between. I have said that we should not start with the Trade Agreements CETA and TTIP and have made the proposal 'Koopt Hollandsche waar, dan we help each other', but Mr Van 't Wout certainly hasn't heard that. Firstly, I find the interruption strange and secondly, I feel that the VVD feels under pressure. A cat in a tight spot might make some weird jumps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u346	Again, it is a budget of almost EUR 80 billion. What changes will be made to the budget when it comes to the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u347	We are, of course, talking about the budget for the following year every year. You can imagine shifts or not. I remember making proposals in the social field and I come to the rest of the answer later on, for example, to save money by making immigrants work in the Netherlands for ten years and then giving them social security when necessary. Then they contributed, paid taxes, joined and proved themselves. That was agreed by the VVD around 21 June last year. She didn't support that. But less than two weeks later, the holiday was one day old, Mr Azmani in Trouw wrote a piece in which he wanted to bring my amendment to the fore, while he had not supported it two weeks before. Don't come up with the story that the PVV has no proposals. The PVV has it, but the VVD doesn't want to support it itself, while she wants to make good decoration with it afterwards. That is exactly what I meant when I interrupted Mr Azmani. The viewer at home and the voter no longer believe in it. I am allowed here as a representative of the PVV to name what has not gone well in the past four years. We will see next week whether we support the budget of 80 billion. Social security must continue, so there is a good chance that we will support the budget. Then there will be elections and we will fight a little rubbert, just like the VVD does with the Party of Labour, even though these parties continue to hold each other firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u348	A brief response, Mr. Van 't Wout.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u349	The conclusion can only be one. The PVV's election programme already provided almost no clarity. These are questions that affect a lot of entrepreneurs. For example, we couldn't find anything about pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness, the chain determination and the right of dismissal. Now Mr De Graaf has the opportunity to clarify that, but nothing is going to happen again. That's how we know the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u350	I do not share Mr Van 't Wout's conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u351	Mr. Chairman. The last few weeks we see Louis Asscher often on stage. In debates with Diederik Samsom we hear extensive speeches about everything that is actually wrong in the labour market: high unemployment, slipped flex and unfair competition by Europe. We mainly hear how he would do it all differently. After all these speeches, you almost start to think: that man apparently wants to become Minister of Social Affairs. Let us not forget that this minister came to The Hague almost four years ago as a kind of savior from Amsterdam. The expectations were high: at last something was going to happen to unemployment, to the division, to the gap between fixed and flex and to the uncertainty experienced by so many workers and the unemployed. Four years later, of course, something happened, but the report is lean as far as D66 is concerned. Success has been achieved, such as the approach to bogus constructions. The beautiful Law approach fakes constructions is almost shared by this entire Chamber. We are dealing quickly with the law for a higher minimum youth wage, but a majority in parliament is for that and it is good that the Minister and the two coalition parties have agreed on this, not least for the welfare of Mr Ulenbelt's wife. The introduction of five-day paid maternity leave for fathers is a start. It will only take place in 2019, but it is a breakthrough and I am happy with that. Of the Secretary of State there are the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement. Both of them still have quite a few rough edges, but it is an achievement that the new course has been taken in these areas. Those were successes. And yes, unemployment has fallen. The cabinet, supported by a number of parties, has also had to take difficult measures not only to put the budget in order but also wider, at a time of deep crisis. And yes, there have never been so many workers as now. There's more people working than ever. We should be proud of that. In that sense, I like to share the always optimistic view of my colleague Van 't Wout. However, these additional jobs for all those additional workers are, of course, mainly a result of the attracting economy, not of the job plans, because in the labour market, the division between flex and undoubtedly only grows. We have heard anointing words about permanent jobs, but unfortunately the figures do not lie. Since the introduction of the Work and Security Act, 21 000 permanent jobs have indeed been created. That's nice, but the number of employees in a flex job grew by 125,000 in the same period, so six times as hard. The Minister seems to be the only one who really finds the Work and Security Act a success. He reminds me a little bit of the man sitting in the car, hearing a warning on his car radio about a ghost rider and thinking, "One? I'll see a hundred." The Minister is suddenly saying that it is quite logical that these additional jobs are mainly flex jobs, because the economy is attracting them. When I read that statement this week, I think, on the weekend, I thought, "What am I reading here?" During the treatment of the same Work and Security Act in the House of Representatives, the Minister said exactly the opposite. Then he said: because they are bad economic times, flex jobs are mostly added. I ask the Minister, what is it? I keep the feeling that the argument is always being changed a little bit in order not to admit that the Work and Security Act unfortunately does not work because my group has also supported that law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That line and attitude also remind me of the job plans, which suddenly became sector plans when it became clear that they did not generate additional jobs, or the Action Plan 55PlusWorks, which suddenly became the Action Plan 50PlusWorks when it appeared that the number of helped 55-plussers did not achieve the set targets. Then the definition was adapted, almost in the best tradition of Lubbers, who once adapted the definition of unemployment when there were more than 1 million unemployed. This gives the impression that the Minister sometimes tries to justify annoying facts with words. If something doesn't work, isn't it more credible to acknowledge that? Take the Wet Work and Security. In education, sick masters and teachers continue to work because there are no replacements and because of course they do not want to send their students home. Fortunately, there is a scout, Mr Tichelaar, who has to look for a solution within the framework of the law. I ask the Minister why an amendment to the law has actually been ruled out and why we get the impression in interviews that education has still not understood it. As far as my group is concerned, the Work and Security Act has failed, and a next cabinet cannot do anything other than, in the words of the VVD spokesperson, gum and start over. The same applies as far as I am concerned to the DBA Act, about thezzp'ers. The chaos is complete there. Thousands of self-employed people are losing their jobs and the clients are losing their jobs massively. We will be debating this at length later this week. However, we must look not only at Secretary of State Wiebes but certainly also at this Minister. He has failed to adapt the labour market to the reality of the 21st century in this respect, in which many people like to choose to work in self-employed organisations as well. Here too we have heard words:zzp'ers need to be better insured, for example against incapacity for work. But why does the Minister still refuse to carry out the only Chamber motion adopted on this point, the motion calling for easier access to voluntary basic insurance at UWV? This remains a thorn in my eye, as the Minister also knows. There is still a great deal to be done for the new cabinet in terms of payment of wages in the event of illness. It was just about Mr Heerma as well. At some point I got the impression from the media that the problem had been solved. The minister wrote something there about one year's pay. I still regularly come across SMEs who sincerely believe that the Minister has reduced the payment of wages to one year for them. That would be nice, but I would ask the Minister to confirm that I understand correctly that this is not the case at all and that this is still at the polder. Is it not also a weakness to blame the coalition party, which was on the luggage carrier, in interviews? I didn't think that was the strongest argument. The problems have also become urgent in the pension system. They were already, but they're getting more and more. This issue has actually been dealt with by the Secretary of State from the outset, but we haven't made much progress in terms of reform. How does the Minister look back, so I ask him, that he did not realize on that file? Yeah, the financial rules have been adjusted. And yes, the Secretary of State is happy to keep her back if parties want to count themselves rich with an over-calculation rate, whereby risks are passed on to young people and to workers. However, the reform of our pension system is still in the same state as in 2012, when the urgency has only increased and the confidence of young and old people in the current system is steadily decreasing. Shouldn't the Minister have interfered a little more? Maybe he couldn't have pushed the polder into more movement? In an earlier budget debate, I quoted Joop den Uyl's words on the burdening of technology and the fear that this new technology would have an impact on jobs. The Minister also made a number of speeches on this subject, about robots. In this, he always stressed the importance of continuous training. I'm sorry if I get a little predictable, but unfortunately little has been done on that point. We have heard many fine words, but I have missed the solution. There was one really big policy measure that came out of a box last Prince's Day like a jackass. This was a reduction in training of no less than 125 million per year by abolishing the training allowance. Is that really the Minister's answer to "lifelong learning"? D66 is convinced that the Minister is an ally on this point, that we are pulling the strings at the same end. Why has it not been possible to finally arrange these personal training ads for workers, as the Chamber has been asking for years through a whole set of CDA and D66 Chamber motions? What's the barrier? And what can we do, also for the next few months, to get this file moving? The gap between word and deed is also visible in the area of labour migration. Mrs Karabulut already put the finger on the sore spot. I disagree with her solutions, but that will not surprise most of the spokesmen. We have also heard great words in this area: code orange, dikes that are breaking and this is from very recent borders that must be closed if Europe does not listen to the Netherlands or, rather, to Minister Asscher. That SP rhetoric may sound good if you feel that your job is being taken away by Bulgarians and Romanians, but the Minister does not mention that the number of inspections against fraud and exploitation has been halved. He did not tell the people that he unfortunately failed to reach an agreement on this issue as the European President. And yes, the question is also, of course, whether the very big words did not increase resistance among European parties, in other countries that could have helped him in this. The Minister will not be surprised that closing the borders is not even a good idea as far as my group is concerned, but the criticism of that position has already come from his own party. The Work and Security Act, the Job Plans, thezzp'ers, the payment of wages in the event of illness, training and labour migration: everywhere the problems are as great as in 2012. After four years of Minister Asscher, there can be only one conclusion as far as I am concerned. The words of Minister Asscher are more beautiful than the deeds. He's a little like the Minister of Beauty. I would like to add one more to all the subjects on which the cabinet is working. It still has to be much more attractive to go to work and workers just above the minimum wage need much more. Let me say straight away that the cabinet has taken a big step forward with regard to single parents. Compliments. Work now pays much more for them; in the past it even cost money. But would it not be a good idea, I would ask not only the Minister, but certainly colleagues, to introduce some sort of standard? That standard is that you get 20% better when you get to work out of welfare. Then you know that if you work around the minimum wage, you always get 20% more net than you do when you're on welfare. Now, for example, a single earner who works only progresses 3%. That's not enough, is it? Of course, this should not be done by reducing assistance, but by making work pay more. I think that's more just for people who work. We could do the same for non-working partners. Now a partner who goes to work sometimes also delivers 65% of his salary. Let's cut that to 50%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u352	In itself, this line appeals to me more than the ridiculous proposal we saw earlier, in which you could spend half of the week on welfare while your neighbor was working and you could just have a job next to it. Anyway, maybe we can get somewhere. I do have the next question. Of course, you have to do this partly along the path of reducing burdens, but the poverty trap is, of course, caused not only by the assistance but also by all kinds of plus schemes that are on top of it, including at local level. Does D66 say with the VVD that we should look at that too? I remember an article in the Volkskrant about four years ago. The magazine was even dedicated to it. It was called Domweg happy in welfare. People with all the fees and other things they got, turned out to be higher than my wife's net salary in education. Does Mr Van Weyenberg therefore agree with me that we should look at this as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u353	Yes, but I think Mr Van 't Wout and I share that you have to be very careful with local income policies, which stand in the way of national policies. So I like to look at that further. I will come back to the article, which Mr Van 't Wout does not quote quite accurately; he knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u354	Okay, let's focus. I agree with this direction in itself. Whether such a hard percentage is going to work individually or not, that line is just good. That work must pay off, the VVD always thinks. You will have to do so partly by means of relief, but we also note that you have to look on the other side. You shouldn't make the assistance too high with all the pluses on top of it, because you're not going to straighten that out with just relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u355	No, although with that, and also with phasing out routes of the surcharges, what is to be done. I see Mrs. Schouten coming to the microphone. I am going to tell you something that will appeal to her on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u356	You don't have to interrupt anymore, Mrs. Schouten!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u357	Mr Van Weyenberg already knows which interruptions are going to occur, at least as far as Mrs Schouten is concerned, but apparently not as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u358	No, I don't know!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u359	I always like to look at what we can do for people with lower incomes, but I'm a little surprised at D66's argument that the income of working people must be considerably higher than welfare benefits because otherwise work doesn't pay. Does Mr Van Weyenberg say that people are on the benefit because it is actually much easier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u360	No, and Mrs. Voortman knows I'm not saying that. I'm saying that I just don't think it's fair that you only have 3% more left than before if you work a whole week. Most people in welfare want nothing more than to get to work. I'd like to agree with Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u361	I welcome that, but I would nevertheless recommend that Mr Van Weyenberg be more precise in what he says. He should be more careful in his argumentation. If you say that working should pay, you're actually saying that this isn't the case right now and that the welfare is. I think that most people in welfare would like to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u362	Sure, but what people don't think is fair is that they only get 3% better when they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u363	Mrs. Schouten, we'd like to know what you're going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u364	I am also curious to know what Mr Van Weyenberg thinks I am going to ask. He might already be able to guess. It is almost touching how D66 is now making itself hard for the adage that works must pay off. He's now setting an example of someone who's only up 3%. Mr Van Weyenberg and I have had whole discussions about someone who went from €27,000 to €32,000, because he went to work harder and more hours. But what happened to that person? He could turn in $58. We have put forward proposals in the Tax Plan to reduce this gap. Who voted against it? D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u365	Absolutely. And do you know why? Because we want it to pay more for everyone to go to work. That is why last year there were measures in our own tax plan that were good for household income. We did indeed vote against your amendments last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u366	I'm talking about this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u367	I'll get to that in a minute. Last year, the burden money needed for this had to be paid by increasing the burden on working mothers in two-earning households. That's where you lost me. On the example you presented this year, I said that I find it interesting, but in isolation it also has a very substantial income for certain groups. I'm not okay with that, but I'm gonna surprise you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u368	It's just crocodile tears from D66. She had the opportunity to support proposals that do exactly what Mr Van Weyenberg wants, namely to make work pay and avoid situations where that does not happen now. He keeps the story that this is at the expense of working parents. That is not the case at all. The proposal we have made did not take that into account at all. Then Mr Van Weyenberg's words are really empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u369	The difference is that last year the combination discount was significantly reduced for two-earers. There were amendments that wanted to settle that. Mrs Schouten cannot deny that. Let that be clear. Of the proposal put forward by Mrs Schouten to this budget, I said that I find it interesting, but I think that it has very significant income implications for certain groups. That's the answer. Soon we'll have, I presume, money for relief. Everyone has to take advantage of that. I am about to make a concrete proposal that follows on from this. But Mrs Schouten is losing me, and she knows that very well if they are proposals that will make two-earners pay more taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u370	And you're going to surprise Mrs. Schouten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u371	Yes. I had, by the way, reasonably estimated her question, although it is not by checking her afterwards. So this is perhaps a bit of a gratuite remark. In addition to this 20% standard, we would like to see how we can regulate this. We're gonna do that one step at a time. Then I am looking in particular at parties who also say in their election programme that we need to make sure that work really pays more. VVD, PvdA, CDA, D66, but certainly also the Christian Union and the SGP have explicitly written down things about this. I don't think we're gonna do that in one cabinet period. I think having a standard is something that works. It gives a shared perspective of where you want to go. In order to do that step by step, I propose that all cabinet proposals should take a sort of test on the poverty trap, a "will work through this measure pay?"-test. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Then we can see with each measure whether it contributes to making work pay more. I would also ask the Minister to take up again the figures on the poverty trap in future when someone from the assistance starts working at 120% of the minimum wage. This was the case until 2012. Then it turned out that you often had very little extra gain compared to working on the minimum wage. This also affects the income picture of the €10,000 above the minimum wage referred to by Mrs Schouten. I would like to see that again in the budget from now on. Indeed, I think it would be wise for people to be allowed to keep half their income temporarily when they start working, as I say to Mr Van 't Wout, but only if they do not yet earn the minimum wage. Of course, if Mr Van 't Wout's fear had arisen, I do not want to take it away. I do not want to say to anyone: both here and your entire benefit and 50% of the income and that infinite. That would indeed not be fair. But I do say, let people keep a larger share of the money as long as they don't earn a minimum wage. That seems to me to be a step forward. That also seems to me to be a lot more effective than all kinds of bullying measures as mandatory compensations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u372	I, of course, got tears in my eyes when I read the proposal on extra income in the paper; wonderful, that opinion article by Samsom and Pechtold. But in recent years I have made two or three proposals in this respect which have been voted down consistently. Will D66 now make a concrete proposal to make this possible as soon as possible next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u373	This can be very brief, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u374	I think I've just asked the Minister what he thinks of my concrete proposal that you can keep half. That seems to me to be a very concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u375	So you're gonna do this, even next year. So you're not gonna come back to this? So this is what we're gonna do with each other. I am not just asking for this, but because over the last few years I have brought it up again and again in the case of amendment and motion. But each time it was voted away by the parties. I'm happy about this. Then I'll ask my follow-up question. Mr Van Weyenberg talks about making work pay. Will we therefore ensure that the lowest wages, namely the statutory minimum wage, are increased by 10%? Then it'll be really rewarding. That way, the people who don't make ends meet can just make ends meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u376	This is also the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u377	Then what you do is make it more expensive for an employer to hire someone. I'm afraid work will pay again, but it will pay for fewer and fewer people. That does not seem to me to be the solution. This is a good word, and I can recommend this to Mrs Karabulut to make sure that the step to work pays more and that you have much more net left. With subsidies, it makes it more attractive for employers to hire people who earn around the minimum wage. We'll increase our chances of getting a job. That seems much more like the way to go. I was talking about bullshit rules. If you have now signed a contract for a job, you still have to keep applying from the UWV. So if you start in two or three months, you still have to keep applying. I think that's kafkaesque. Can we do that now? I feel really supported by the election programs of the VVD and the Labour Party. So I'm gonna ask the Minister if we can do that. What can't wait for another cabinet is the capacity of the inspection SZW. The number of inspections has been halved over the last five years. The capacity's falling. There's temporary extra money. Last year, together with Mr Kerstens, I asked for this money to be made available for a little longer. The Minister also took a step. That is why I have tabled an amendment aimed at structurally increasing the capacity of the inspection, precisely in order to be able to deal with labour market fraud and exploitation. I have also tabled an amendment with Mr Karabulut to extend the unit of the SZW inspection which combats labour market discrimination. In the recent general consultation it appeared that a lot of companies still need some help in this area. I am also working on an amendment which I have not yet tabled, because I believe that more colleagues are working on it in order to see if we can make some money available for the Long Alliance Netherlands (LAN) in the fight against lung disease. That amendment will come. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. Maybe he can say something about that already. Two years ago, I first drew attention to the problem of people with cancer in the labour market. The Minister has started to do so, with good courage. I thank him again for that. He knows how much that matters to me, and I know that this also applies to him. Too many people still have trouble getting to work or staying if they have cancer or have had cancer. There's going to be an experiment with the no-riskpolis right now. I'm very happy about that. I know that this is particularly true for all those people who hope to get a better chance on the labour market. There are also initiatives by companies to better support people with a cancer history. Can the Minister see if he and the UWV there, in combination with that pilot, can provide some support? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The problem of insurance, especially in the case of incapacity for work, turns out to be uncomfortable. Will the Minister call on the insurers and urge them to put the turbo on? This is taking way too long, isn't it? I think it is, and I am sure that the Minister will do the same. In recent weeks attention has also been paid to childcare and vaccination. A growing group of people choose not to have their children vaccinated. I think that's unwise, but that's the right thing to do for those people. However, it may endanger other children, for example those who have not yet been vaccinated. Parents get information about the percentage of unvaccinated children, the Minister of Health said. I like that. Would this Minister like to look at this in more detail, Mrs Voortman has already drawn attention to this in the past, whether childcare organisations can refuse unvaccinated children? What is legally necessary for that? With regard to the clock, I agree with Mr Heerma's questions and with the questions raised in the debate on parental participation crèches. I do have questions about the new pension system. Mr Heerma asked about the bridging arrangement. I, too, have been surprised to see that the available budget has not always been used, while there are complaints about it. So I look forward to those answers as well. Will the Secretary of State also undertake further research into a transition period shorter than 25 years before the abolition of the average premium system? If so, when can we get the results? I would ask you one more time: would the Minister please pass on what a 4% increase in interest rates would mean for young people and the elderly? I'm not asking because I'm in favour of that, but because I want the generational effects in view. Mr Krol mentioned this earlier. Finally. We will have to wait until March for further really great steps to be taken, not only on the pension system, but also on the division of labour. It is time for a real breakthrough, so that employers dare to hire people again, so that they can simply take on employees and find the security they want. This is the starting point for D66: if you want to become an independent entrepreneur, you will receive our full support; if you prefer to work as an employed person, you should have the opportunity to be contracted for an indefinite period instead of being offered a revolving door flex contract. That is the agenda for the coming years. After the words, it's really time for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u378	I may have missed it just now, when Mr Van Weyenberg was reviewing the Minister's report. I cut off a bit because I thought: here's a party that's pretty much got every minister's plan for a vote in favour. There is one proposal relating to a decent labour market, which did not come from this minister, but from the Minister for the Interior, where D66 voted against: the norming of top incomes. Mr Van Weyenberg did not think that was necessary. I actually missed what D66 in his election program is proposing to give people solidity. If I'm not mistaken, the D66 election programme simply says that she's breaking the right to resign, making every job actually a flex job. Next, Mr Van Weyenberg spells the term "permanent job" "that's what we'll call it from tomorrow's top hat and then everybody's happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u379	Now it appears that the minister is not alone in that car, but that Mr. Kerstens is sitting next to him; together they look at the ghost riders. Just because we have supported the Work and Security Act, I am disappointed that it does not work. I think it's wise to admit that, too. If we do nothing, in ten years' time half of the people with practical training will have a temporary contract or a flex contract. I do not think that is wise, and I think that is particularly unfair. Will Mr Kerstens do something about that with me? That requires two things. I'm sure we'll have to cut back. Of course, we'll protect people from arbitrariness. At the same time, we are ensuring that this is included in the D66 electoral programme, and Mr Kerstens knows that from day one, for example, you are building up a transition fee. I'd like to do something about payrolling, but unfortunately the PvdA doesn't support that anymore. We will all have to get out of the shooter's pit, because I do not like the way things are going on in the labour market, with the growth of flex contracts, and I do not think Mr Kerstens is right either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u380	I think a lot is happening to improve the Work and Security Act. This law has the following mechanism: there can be specific agreements in sectors where the law may not entirely provide the space you would like to have. These agreements must then be made between trade unions and employers, and they are also made on the left and right. I have just heard Mr Van Weyenberg say that 50% of people will no longer have permanent jobs if they continue to do so. If we run the D66 election program and turn our backs on firing rights, there won't be anyone left with a permanent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u381	Mr Kerstens simply opts for a standstill here. That's okay, but I'm sorry, and I don't think it's justified. Let's not forget that it's painful to lose someone's job because the company's going bankrupt. What I cannot explain to people, however, is that they are going out and that another flex worker is going to do exactly the same work, two years later another one and two years later. That is what I want to break through, and that is what Mr Kerstens is asking to get out of this well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u382	Mr Van Weyenberg made a speech aimed at countering the division of the labour market and preventing half from being in temporary contracts, flex contracts, in ten years' time. Does he see the recent CPB report describing that the Netherlands is a champion in this and that it pays too much as a support of its own argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u383	I'd find that a little presumptuous, so let's not put it that way. I see that the division is not a natural phenomenon. That is the result of the way in which we have arranged it. This includes the fact that we have simply not made it attractive for an employer to give people contracts for an indefinite period of time, due to the burdens, the right of dismissal and the payment of wages. I'd like to do something about that. At the same time, I ask employers that people no longer build up transition fees. To describe a CPB note as a basis, I think it goes a little far, but the essence is that it is not a natural phenomenon. So we can do something about it. Let us also make that more optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u384	The interesting thing is that the CPB report indeed indicates that something can be done about it. However, what the CPB points out in particular is that all kinds of flexible forms are too attractive for the employer. Then getting broadcast, payrolls, call contracts and temporary contracts all ticks where it would be too beneficial would bring too much benefit to lower the employee's risk. They all get two or three ticks. Zzp gets all, i.e. six, ticks. That's what the CPB finds most rewarding. Shouldn't something happen to that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u385	I thought it was a trick question. It turns out that now, but the core thing is that you want to narrow that gap. I think it is significant, and this is also evident from the election programme "The CDA sees these self-employed people as half exploited people." I would advise Mr Heerma just to have a conversation with all those self-employed people. When you read the CDA election program, you get a very gloomy picture of self-employed people. I have a very different reading from Mr Heerma. By the way, we need to change the guise constructions. Most of it does. When it comes to payroll, Mr Heerma knows that we are on the same side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u386	Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time, integration was a mutual understanding. Integration was seen as a shared responsibility, as well of society as of the newcomer. Now our prime minister says it's up to the citizen to fight in. I'm not making it up. The social importance of integration has apparently gone out of the picture, with all the consequences. This Minister of the PvdA House speaks anointing words about this, but has not achieved anything in the last four years of integration in this area. The quality of integration education is below par, the market released three years ago has the wrong incentives in it, desks for language classes shoot like mushrooms from the ground and the refugee has become a earning model. The quality of the lessons is often sad, with the result that a large part of the citizens do not pass the exam. And then the Minister dares to say that the figures are much more positive than he thought. Now I understand that when you're responsible for policies that already have almost everything failing, you're happy with any citizen who can manage despite your policies, but for "much more positive than thought" we have fact checks these days. For Saïd from Syria, I do not think it is so positive that he has been in the procedure for so long and is not being offered language lessons and that once he has a residence permit, he is forced to apply for benefits, because until then he has not been allowed to invest in himself and is therefore not an attractive labour force. For Saïd, it does not seem positive to me that he is left to his fate without knowing the language and must seek a suitable language course in the forest of providers of various languages. I do not think it is a good thing that he has to take out a loan himself to finance the lessons, that until then he can hardly or not communicate with the teacher of his children, with his neighbors and with institutions and that he cannot work and cannot participate. Just as well I understand that this image is not beneficial for Erik from Osdorp, Erik who works hard for his money and sees that his Eritrean neighbor in the assistance is at home all day and meanwhile doesn't speak a word of Dutch. But the minister thinks it's all much more positive than he thought. This cabinet has done everything in its power to create an image of a Netherlands in which there is a conditional Dutch citizenship and an unconditional Dutch citizenship. A hooligan with Frisian roots is just a fucking kid, but it's our fucking kid. But the troublemaker with a family history in the Rif Mountains must simply pick up to his own country. Does the Minister have any idea how damaging this is to social cohesion and community spirit? Let us stop linking Dutch parole and integration to the right of residence. What's it gonna take? Make integration a public matter again, by placing it with the Ministry of Education. In this way we ensure professional teachers and a quality inspection and stop the refugee as a earning model. D66 wants a quick and complete review of the Integration Act and wants to get rid of private language lessons of varying quality. Let us look at a system that differentiates on a level, so that the pharmacist from Aleppo, the illiterate from Eritrea and the Eritrean housewife are each served to a custom. Finally, yesterday this letter came, the 5 December letter on Agenda integration 2016. And here they come again: our core values. You know them! Carrying out core values, guaranteeing and internalizing. What values are these and who are "our"? I was at the CDA Congress. This was about "our values and traditions." The VVD programme deals with "our values and traditions" by actively promoting teachers. And if there had been a PVV congress, it would have been about "our values." I just feel like we're all talking about something else. In this context, I would ask the Minister: what are they and is it not even time that we established this in the light of the declaration of participation, as far as I am concerned, in a social debate? What are "our values" and who are "our"? That's finished four minutes, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u387	It's gonna be okay. I call Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u388	Mr. Chairman. When we hear the debate like that, you'd almost think there's going to be elections. I remember when the minister joined in 2012, he said, "I make one promise, I say one thing to people. That is: I am Louis and I am going to disappoint you." When we hear the introduction of this evening, at least we can see that he has kept that promise. But that aside. There's urgency in the air. There is a desire for concrete changes. We note it in terms of political developments in the world, the rise of populism and the fundamental notes of the approaching election campaigns. Our country is at a crossroads. We can wander the path of populism over the next few years, a path of despair on which we can seriously get lost. But we can also take the path of hope, a path of confidence, of thoughtful steps towards change, with a constructive attitude but also a fierce moral debate, if necessary. That's what politics should be about as far as I'm concerned. And that's not just a way of words. We must be able to place concrete acts of trust in the face of mistrust in our society. That is our task, including in this budget debate on Social Affairs and Employment. Here, concrete choices must be made that help people, with actions to make our labour market better, our economy fairer and our families stronger. Over the past four years, these rulers have started with great ambitions. The minister had the dream of making the labour market fairer, and of us with him. The Minister has worked hard on that, too. Under difficult circumstances, I acknowledge that. But somewhere along the way the ambition seems to have turned out to be a surplace between PvdA and VVD, between coalition and opposition, between employers and employees. As a politician, we have failed to solve a number of major problems. Of course. Economically, things are getting better. At the same time, however, there are people who do not see enough of it, whose problems we have not yet been able to solve. In the labour market, it is still difficult to get a fixed contract. The difference between temporary and fixed contracts, between flex and fixed, has not sufficiently narrowed. It has not yet been possible to remove the concerns of pensioners, not only their own pensions but also those of their grandchildren. It has not yet been possible to enablezzp'ers to receive enough assignments now that uncertainty has increased as to whether they and their clients are at risk. It has not yet been possible to make it easier for companies to hire people by lowering the burden or, for example, by adjusting the rules on pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness. It has not been possible to create a new tax system that, for example, enables families to combine education, work and care. In 2017, we will really have to come up with solutions to the challenges in the labour market and in our economy. Clear choices need to be made. There are all kinds of electoral programmes now that will hopefully lead to results, but I think that politics and the polder must work together this morning with Mr Heerma. I hope that employers' and employees' organisations will think along with politics and come up with genuinely shared solutions. I believe that this is a sensible and constructive path towards broad acceptance of solutions for all the situations and the people I have just mentioned. That not everyone benefits from the attracting economy, I also noticed yesterday. I was in the vicinity of Zwijndrecht. Quite specifically: I was visiting the company Heerema. That's where 350 of the 750 jobs disappear. At the same time, Nedstaal is falling over and IHC Caland is going to cut jobs. The Zwijndrecht-Barendrecht-Alblasserwaard region risks losing around 2,000 jobs in total. That has a huge impact there. I would nevertheless urge the Minister to show a little more urgency. The Minister for Employment is supposed to appear when 2,000 jobs disappear somewhere and come up with concrete solutions. The least we can do is set up a mobility centre there, so that at least the people and all those families who are in uncertainty get the maximum help to go from work to work. We have done this before, for example in the case of the dismissals at Philip Morris. I would urge the Minister to do this. Otherwise, I will try to move the Chamber to do so with a motion. I also hope, in general terms, that we will remain vigilant on the specific employment situation in the region. For a number of years I have also been calling for attention to be paid to the possibilities of working across borders. I therefore welcome the coalition's initiative to work on this at last. In Zwijndrecht it became clear to me how frustrating it is for people when jobs go to poorer paid Eastern Europeans. The Minister sent out mixed signals yesterday and today about what he wants to do about it. I'd just like to make that clear. There was a proposal in Europe to allow countries to do more themselves against the influx of workers from other Member States. That was after the negotiations with the United Kingdom prior to the Brexit, when we were still trying to see if the United Kingdom could stay with us. At the time, we tabled a motion to see whether this offered opportunities for the Netherlands. Will the Minister see if he can cash in that proposal now? This could perhaps be the beginning of a new approach to free movement. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Then there is a project that the Minister loves: the Work and Security Act. This law doesn't work the way we want it to. We need to look for improvements. There is, however, a certain stubbornness on the part of the Minister when it comes to these improvements. In recent years, sometimes after strong pressure from the Chamber, some patches have been taped to the Wz for seasonal workers and for footballers, or all people. However, we have been knocking on a closed door for more than a year now for those who have taken up special education, while the law simply doesn't work there. The PO Council has just carried out an investigation. Schools send kids home. On television, the Minister was a bit shook away from that investigation, but these are hard data. In particular, there are real problems. An example are the schools that want a teacher to fill in that fits the school's beliefs. Last week I was watching Pauw, where the Minister said in a derogatory way that it would be schools that would want a teacher to fall in with a long skirt. I really thought that was a shocking comment, Mr President. This is simply about schools that can make their own choices in our order about the teachers they want to attract. These schools are doing their best to give the best possible education from their beliefs. They are schools that perform excellently and have not asked for these problems. These schools are in trouble because of the Minister's law. They do not deserve a kick, but they are entitled to a solution. I ask the Minister to take back the derogatory words about these schools. With a motion from my hand, co-signed by colleagues, we have forced the Minister to appoint a scout. This happened last week. That's fine. I also really hope that he will look at solutions. The Minister states that this must be done within the framework of the law and collective agreement on primary education. What if that scout comes up with solutions that don't fall in there? I want these solutions on the table here so that we can start the debate on whether we may have to change the law. Is the Minister prepared to give the scout a broader mandate than he has now received? The chain determination does not exactly lead to greater security for many workers either. People who first had a three-year contract are now just sent off after two years. I know examples of people doing research at the university and I know they're just out after two years. The Christian Union proposes in its electoral programme to allow a temporary contract to be given once more and to agree in return that the second and third temporary contracts will last longer and longer, for example six months longer. This may lead to a smoother transition, including for employers, to a fixed contract. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this plan. I come to the subject of poverty, the area of the Secretary of State. A recently presented report of churches shows that a lot of people are knocking at the church for help. Whether they believe or not, they get that help. That's beautiful, but how is it that people who are helped by the church are sometimes not in the picture with the church? Does the Secretary of State want to consult with the municipalities to see where that group is and how the government can reach these people with poverty policies? That might help. In connection with this, the report said that the bureaucracy is terrible. People have to deal with so many instances that at some point they don't know the way. Shouldn't the Empire and the municipalities aim for one contact? People can then knock on the door knowing that this person can help them to other bodies. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if she can start pilots on one contact person for people in debt? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Poverty and debt are closely linked. More and more households also have problematic debts. I see that much is still going wrong in helping people who are in debt. The Court of Auditors has recently investigated this. Respect for the foot free from batter remains a problem. It's still not settled. That really needs to be sorted out now. Mr Heerma said it was still waiting for the legal pause in debt. When's it due? I also think that it is too long before people can be helped in a debt relief process. Sometimes, literally, years can go by. Unfortunately, the connection between different types of debt relief is not always well organised. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State acknowledges this, but also whether she herself has any further ambitions to improve debt relief in the coming period. I'm on the Participation Act. Mr Spigt and Mr Van der Gaag are the drivers of the employment of disabled people by the government and business. They recently spoke strong words about that law in Het Financieele Dagblad. "The urgency is gone and the schwung is out," said Van der Gaag. I think that is very serious. These are the job ambassadors of this Secretary of State. What did she do with those noises? Those sounds don't sound very strange to me, also because I've been getting signals from employers over the past period. They said: I want to give jobs to people with disabilities, but the bureaucracy is killing me. What is the reaction of the Secretary of State to the cri du coeur of her own job ambassadors? How does she feel about the Participation Act, also in view of the recent figures from the quarterly report she herself sent? I am also concerned about the financing of jobs for the most vulnerable group. Cedris has indicated that they lack 300 million, because the outflow from SW companies is disappointing. The Secretary of State is dismissing those objections. However, Cedris' calculations are based on the data from the meicircular. Don't they knock anymore? Shouldn't the Secretary of State even sit down with Cedris and talk about this? I have similar concerns about financing sheltered work. The Secretary of State assumes that everyone who does sheltered work is at 30% pay value and that these people themselves can earn about €7,000. In practice, this is often not the case. If we are not careful, the municipality must leave those people behind to avoid financial problems. That goes completely against the mind of the sheltered work. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? I am going to make a few comments on integration. That is a subject for my colleague Mr Segers, but I have the honour to deal with it here too. Integration is one of the great social issues of our time. Integration involves more than speaking the language and having a home and an income. We don't live by bread alone. We are more than a collection of 17 million individuals. We also share our history, our rule of law, good practices and values such as freedom of religion, equality between men and women and solidarity between rich and poor. All the more important that we also pass on these cultural values to newcomers. With the declaration of participation, the Minister stressed the importance of this, but it is now time for us to get past the lack of commitment and superficiality. Some municipalities set a good example in this respect. Where many municipalities suffice with a lesson in the much needed, for example, the municipality of Leiden tackles the moral integration of newcomers thoroughly. My question to the Minister is whether he can make a model such as Leiden a model for all municipalities. The extent to which newcomers become acquainted with central values and standards of our rule of law and with our history should not depend on where they happen to end up. We not only transfer values, but sometimes we have to defend them when necessary. In this light, the announcement of a possible law that might regulate the foreign financing of mosques, but no different than after much consultation with Gulf states and mosques, is simply disappointing. The Chamber has been asking for measures for more than three years and has adopted a motion from the Christian Union and the VVD in the General Political Reviews, based on the principle of reciprocity. If the country of origin of these finances does not have freedom of religion, then that freedom does not belong to foreign financiers either. Can the Minister indicate how his watery proposal for a possible law relates to this clear statement by this Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u389	I shall return to those central values or cultural values for a moment. I have also said a few words about this in my speech. It could be that if Mrs Schouten and I both make a list of what the core values of this country are, we would not have exactly the same list, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u390	Is that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u391	That's not the question. The question isn't to make that list now. But if Mr Öztürk is also in on it, then I'm guessing that we have three lists of what we all consider to be the core values of this country. I have just argued in favour of having a national debate on what our values are, because nobody fills that out, neither does Mrs Schouten. How does she look at that? Does the Christian Union find it uncontested for everyone in this country what these values are?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u392	In my opinion, I have just indicated in my speech exactly what we mean by these values. I would like to repeat them: the rule of law, good practices, values such as freedom of religion, equality between men and women, solidarity and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u393	Where do you want to go, Mr Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u394	He wants to have a national debate on our values. I am not the integration spokesperson, but we are never against a debate on national values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u395	That's all I'm asking. I'm not fighting your list, but it's your list. I want to make sure that we make the list of the Christian Union into our national values or the list of VVDs here, because there might be. What are the shared values in this country? Can anyone tell me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u396	The Constitution lays down a great many of these values, in Article 1 of the Treaty. What's in it are all the shared values in this country. We even have discussions here about whether there is a need to add anything else. We have been having this discussion for a long time. Once again, I have nothing against a debate, but I think Mr Van Meenen thinks more limited about our common values, because they are simply in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u397	This is my second interruption of the whole day, so please allow me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u398	Yes, but D66 is very high on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u399	That's my colleague. I can't control it. I have one more question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u400	Yeah, she's with you, too, but let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u401	If it is Article 1 of the Constitution, that is absolutely fine. Then we will be out, and that will be our common values, but nothing more than that. Do you? And if so, what then? You were just watching: what is that strangeness? When we call in the Netherlands 'our common values', we all have exactly the same idea. Does the Christian Union think so? In the context of the declaration of participation, how do we get the shared values that we are about to ask new Dutch people for? They have to take the oath on that. Where did we get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u402	I think we have already formulated them and they already exist. Again, a debate is fine. I think Mr Segers will be happy to do so. I believe that Mr Van Meenen is looking for great differences that are not there in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u403	The Christian Union today voted against a motion to ban the foreign funding of political parties. But you are talking about the foreign financing of Islamic organisations, so I see some discrepancy. There is a party in this Chamber, the SGP, who thinks differently about the relationship between husband and wife and about homo-emancipation than the average party here. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u404	I do not think I need to comment on a party whose spokesman is not present at the moment. I don't think that's very fancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u405	Our values!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u406	Within our values, human rights are still valid here. You should ask the question to the SGP. That would be the most fancy thing. As far as the motion on financing is concerned, we in the Netherlands need to make it transparent where funding comes from. We think that's a very good thing. That's what we're doing ourselves. If gifts exceed a certain threshold, we mention them neatly, just as they are included in the law. So even if those gifts come from abroad and come out of a certain threshold, you have to make that clear. The problem with financing some mosques or prayer houses is that it is very unclear which forces and sources of funding are behind them. And more importantly, it is very unclear what influence they might "buy" in certain mosques. The issue of reciprocity also applies. I just mentioned that. If, for example, the Netherlands is not allowed to finance a church in a particular country, it is not possible to finance a mosque in the Netherlands. The Christian Union therefore believes that reciprocity should apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u407	We all know that the PVV is financed by certain forces from abroad. The PVV is not transparent about this. So that's what we're trying to prevent. We have tabled a motion to prohibit it. Mrs Schouten talks about transparency and clarity. The financing of the PVV is not transparent. There is influence bought in here in parliament. I want Mrs Schouten to respond to that. Furthermore, Mrs Schouten can say that I have to answer my questions to the SGP that I have just asked her. But if the SGP refuses to let people who are women be young, ladies are here as MPs, then Mrs Schouten cannot say: you must be with the SGP? She does have an opinion on that, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u408	I say again that I do not think it is very chic to talk about a party when there is currently no spokesman for that party in this Chamber. As far as I know, women are currently on the SGP list at local level. So that point is gone anyway. So there is this possibility for women. In fact, in Vlissingen, the SGP has had a female list leader. So I think that Mr Öztürk's point is away with that. I'll come back a little bit about buying in influence. Mr Öztürk mentioned the PVV with name and name. I think the PVV has been kept to the same legal rules as him and me. If funding exceeds a certain amount, we must reveal it. That applies to all parties in the Chamber. I am also very curious about Mr Öztürk's funding if it exceeds a certain amount. That is what transparency must be sought, and that is what the Christian Union is very much in favour of. Mr Öztürk now suggests that parties are breaking the law. If he does, I'd like him to come up with evidence to show that the law is indeed being broken. He's just pointing and showing that the law is being broken. I'd like him to provide proof of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u409	Do you have any proof, Mr Öztürk? That is Mrs Schouten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u410	When I tabled that motion, I showed it to Mr Bosma. If that's what you want, I can show you again. There's plenty of news about it. The PVV knows about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u411	There are also a lot of reports about DENK. I also see Mr Öztürk fighting many such messages. If messages...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u412	Mr Öztürk, you are now speaking outside the microphone. If you ask a question, you should also listen to the answer. You're going through that now and you're making all kinds of gestures. You really need to stop doing that. Listen!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u413	If Mr Öztürk says that there are parties in the Chamber who break the law, then he simply has to prove it. Then we can have a debate on it afterwards. But he's just insinuating now. We are almost used to it from Mr Öztürk, but I am really done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u414	Thank you. I call Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u415	Mr. Chairman. When the cabinet started four years ago, I was hopeful. For years we had mainly had directors of the VVD and the CDA and therefore I had high expectations of the two current leaders of the PvdA. They have had four years to work for more jobs and a fair labour market. What's the situation now? Let me start with a positive one. Unemployment has decreased. The number of jobs has never been higher. The first goal for the employment agreement for disabled people has been achieved. The economy is attracted and the prospects are good. The Social Affairs and Employment budget therefore has little news in terms of policy content. The rulers seem to be ready. But that's not the whole story. Because what is the result after four years of policy by the VVD and the PvdA? During the General Political Reviews it was already mentioned that inequality has increased during four years of Rutte II. That is the result of political choices. My group would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and his officials for the analysis of income policy and purchasing power development during the current cabinet period. This analysis confirms what we already suspected and what the Central Planning Bureau preached during the General Political Reviews. The inequality has increased. Through policy choices of the VVD and PvdA Cabinet, the rich have benefited more than the poor. The income gap between the highest incomes and the lowest incomes increased between 2011 and 2014. Is this fair? People with higher incomes have progressed up to six times more than people with lower incomes. Is this fair? Thanks to the policy, people with jobs have seen their purchasing power improve most, not people without jobs. Is this fair? People who worked improved 8%, people with benefits only 2%, while their income was already lower. Is this fair? The Minister will say that income inequality has declined overall, because the low-income workers have improved relatively much. But we should not only look at workers, because the Netherlands is made up of more people. Then we see that the inequalities between workers and those on benefits and those on high incomes and those on low incomes have increased. That's been a choice. In addition, the most financially vulnerable people seem to have forgotten. They were at least getting ahead of it. Every time that turned out, the Labour Party in the summer called for real action to be taken on the purchasing power of pensioners and low incomes. It was then compensated, but this compensation merely prevented these people from falling back and prevented more than 400,000 children from growing up in poverty and one in five households from having problematic debts. Not only income inequality has increased in recent years. The gap between people with a flexible contract of employment and a fixed contract has widened rather than narrowed. The number of flex workers has continued to increase, even after implementation of the Work and Security Act. I remember the first budget debate with the Minister in 2012. At that time, I also advocated security for flex workers. I still think: flex must become more expensive so that the permanent job becomes more attractive. This can be achieved by asking for a higher WW premium for temporary contracts and by simply demanding a collective wage for payrolling, of which we are now seeing an increase. That hasn't been handled properly in the last four years. Although we have a high employment rate in the Netherlands, this is not self-evident for many. The labour market opportunities for people with low education, for people with a migration background and for older people are still smaller than average. Discrimination on the labour market reduces the chances of people with no primeval Dutch name or who are older, despite their qualifications. People in lower paid professions must compete with cheap flex forces from Eastern Europe, according to the Minister and other parties. Hireing someone through posting from abroad is often many times cheaper for employers than hiring someone here. The Minister is putting pressure on us to get it right at European level, and that is what GroenLinks supports, because we need to work together to create a fair labour market for all Europeans. But what does the Minister mean by "end the free movement of persons"? Can he go into more detail on what he wants if it is not possible to adapt the Bolkestein Directive? As a government, you have to lead the way. With companies that discriminate, the government no longer does business. I'd like to get some clarity on that. What are the government and organisations like Rijkswaterstaat doing with companies that pay less than the collective wage and thus create unfair competition? Are contracts awarded to companies that employ people from Eastern Europe to work here, or to companies that outsource parts to subcontractors working with cheap European posting? Will the Minister take responsibility for the entire chain of contractors working for the government, in accordance with the spirit of the Law's approach to bogus constructions? If the Minister agrees with GroenLinks that the government should not let anyone work for her for less than the collective wage of the sector, can we then immediately stop giving orders to companies that pay less than the collective wage? This makes the labour market unfair and reduces the chances of people with often low paid jobs. I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. For people with disabilities, the situation is even worse. During the economic crisis, their employment rate fell sharply: from 700,000 people with jobs in 2009 to 460,000 in 2015. Many of them are still on the sidelines. Even if the employment agreement of 125,000 jobs is reached, not even half of the people with disabilities working in 2009 will have another job in ten years' time. How does the Secretary of State view this? Is she satisfied if 125,000 jobs have been added? Or does she think, like GroenLinks, that much more needs to be done to help people with disabilities to get to work? It is not only in terms of income and work that the division has increased. Childcare in poor neighbourhoods is worse than in rich neighbourhoods, there were more incidents of Muslim discrimination in 2015 than before and the active support of far right grew. Social tensions and discontent have also increased under this cabinet. No bridges have been struck. The gap has only grown. The Minister and the Secretary of State may have had good intentions and used fine words, but the actions they took have not led to the result that a left-wing politician should want. Fundamental choices for more equality, for a fair labour market, for closing the gap between fixed and flex have not been made. We saw rulers who rushed through legislation very quickly, causing unintended effects, unworkable rules and need repair. I refer to the Work and Security Act, which not only fails to close the gap between flex and undoubtedly, but also needs to be repaired and still does not do what it was intended to do, namely to counter the fluctuating flexibilisation. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks? Should he not finally look at the second multi-annual contract, for example, as GroenLinks has been advocating for some time now? I also mention the Participation Act, the strictest welfare law ever, which did not bring more people to work, but above all lays down rules and obligations, the employment agreement, which last week was called a "sign table law" by the main drivers, and of course the DBA Act, which is now completely out of place. In addition, we saw that plans with a lot of bomb barry were announced, but that the execution turned out to be half-baked. The 600 million in sector plans barely generated jobs. The sector most affected by the crisis, the retail sector, did not even appear to be involved. How does the Minister now assess his sector plans in retrospect? The cheap flex would be addressed, but the approach to payrolling has remained on the shelf. Does the Minister still support the proposal to make payroll more expensive? If so, what is he going to do about it in the coming months? The Minister has also announced several times that he is proud to extend paternity leave, but that has now been postponed to 2019. What does the Minister say to parents who have a baby in 2017 and 2018? Where the Minister blundered that all cleaners would come into service, the cleaners at Foreign Affairs are still hired and are not government employees. Does the Minister believe that he has kept his promise to employ all the cleaners? What's he gonna do for the cleaners at the State Department? The Empire still causes more problems rather than less for people with big debts, and that is only solved step by step. When does the Secretary of State think the government's gonna help people again instead of working against them? Of course, it's easy to understand that you can't live up to all your ambitions if you're in a coalition with the VVD. But don't show off false promises. It is perhaps a PvdA problem, because last week Mr Samsom, too, was suddenly once again in favour of extra income in the welfare system, while he voted against our motion a week earlier. If I am wrong and this time the PvdA is really going to do the deed to the word 'I am very happy to support it, of course, to do something about it while we still have a majority in favour of it. Does the Secretary of State therefore wish to send a proposal as soon as possible to increase considerably the area for municipalities to make a profit and also to remove the compulsory compensation from the assistance? The majority are now there. Speaking of assistance, is it not simply unfair that older people with an incomplete AOW are also covered by the strict rules of the Participation Act, that they are not allowed to go on holiday and that they are cut off when living with their children? Rules that don't apply to elderly people with an entire AOW. I would ask the Secretary of State to abolish the strict welfare rules for these people. Older people with an addition to their AOW are in poverty because of the national rules. €7.5 million extra is being spent on municipalities to combat poverty this year. Of this, it is easy to finance the reversal of the cost sharing standard for this group, EUR 1.8 million. I think that's what the Secretary of State is trying to do with the money for municipalities. Is the Secretary of State prepared to remove income support for these elderly people from the Participation Act in order to ensure that the cost sharing standard and all other welfare rules no longer apply to these elderly people? The cabinet of the PvdA and the VVD often didn't come out at all either. Since the parties are ideologically so far apart, no choice was made. I mentioned the gap between fixed and flex earlier, but the cabinet did not come out especially with regard to thezzp'ers, except for the aforementioned failed Law DBA. The solution to pay for sickness was laid down by the ESC and the dialogue on the pension system continued quietly. I find it distressing that people in the heavy professions have not been able to prepare themselves for the increase in the age of AOW and have not arranged anything for that. My group was and is in favour of increasing the age of AOW, but there are people in physically heavy professions who, to say disrespectfully, burned up before they could retire. They have not been able to prepare for an increase in the AOW age. It has always been said that a solution would be found, but it never came. People are right to be angry about that. The main reason seems to be that the government, the employers and the workers do not figure out what these heavy-duty professions are. But that can't be a reason not to do anything for the people who are really up? For some professions it is simply very clear. The Inspection SZW has a list of the top fifteen heavy-duty occupations in construction. So let's start with that; that's my simple proposal. For these professions, let us remove the barriers to early retirement, so that employers and employees can at least consider the possibility of schemes for these jobs. We can do this by abolishing the RVU tax for these professions, and perhaps for the whole construction sector. Let us talk to employers and employees about whether certain functions should also be identified in the police and ambulance services. And yes, there is a grey area. There are always professions where the question is whether it is necessary to stop earlier, but that cannot be a reason to change anything now for the people who are on and for whom it is obvious that they cannot reach the age of 67 in a healthy way. Of course, we can ask these sectors to do everything in their power to ensure that people can continue to work until the 67th and to do enough to ensure sustainable employability and retraining. GroenLinks calls on the cabinet to at least start and not push through anymore. Start with one group and then evaluate annually whether there will be schemes and whether more groups should be exempted from the RVU levy. Does the Secretary of State want to get to work on that? In my speech today, the central issue is the division between high and low incomes, between flex and fixed and between people who can participate and people who cannot. But there is one last threatening division that I would like to draw attention to. I find it painful to see that little work has been done on the integration of refugees, people who have left home and have set up a new life here. We need to invest in them so that they can participate fully and be incorporated into society. Finally, it has been agreed that asylum seekers should be allowed to volunteer more quickly. Finally, one language lesson for promising asylum seekers has been arranged since day one. That is good, but does the Minister intend to take further steps to offer opportunities, such as the provision of paid employment, faster procedures and the return to public ownership of integration? Inclusion and equivalence are, after all, the only way to avoid division.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u416	I give the floor to Mr Krol, who speaks on behalf of 50PLUS. Mr Krol has 35 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u417	Mr. Chairman. I see the Minister isn't so bad. 50PLUS represents an even, balanced purchasing power development for people who work, people who cannot work and people who have worked. The government agreement of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet of the VVD and the Labour Party is based on three pillars. In addition to putting public finances in order, the government wants to share prosperity and stimulate sustainable economic growth. The coalition agreement also defines the second pillar as "fair sharing." The origin of this concept is clear. We read in the draft electoral programme of the Labour Party that everyone must benefit from economic recovery. Elsewhere in the same programme we read that inequality fundamentally undermines the trust that people have in society. I agree more than with those wise words and assume that they are fully shared by Minister Asscher. Fair sharing of pleasures and burdens; that is what it comes to according to an earlier election programme of the Labour Party. Fair sharing of lust and burden is therefore rightly a cornerstone of the coalition agreement. Now the question is: what has become of this under the Rutte II cabinet? Recently, the cabinet presented a thorough review of income policies and purchasing power developments between 2012 and 2017. The review covers more than 30 pages of purchasing power information, graphs, tables and statistical point clouds. I'll start with the good news. The median purchasing power of all households together increased by 5.5% over this period. 1.7% of growth is attributable to government-oriented policies and 3.4% to autonomous economic growth. Elsewhere, we read that low-income elderly people have improved up to 120% of the statutory minimum wage. Targeted policies have contributed to this, we read. A thorough study of the note shows that this admission also puts positive points in a different light for the elderly. The combined median purchasing power for all pensioners has been 0.6% negative over the period 2012 to 2017, i.e. this cabinet period. Of this, however, about 0.4% is caused by the fact that you hear it correctly: caused by government policy. For no population group, the negative impact of government policy has been relatively large than for pensioners. The 0.6% negative purchasing power development for pensioners contrasts very sharply with the 7.9% positive purchasing power development for workers over the same period. In addition, it is a difference of 8.5% with pensioners, a difference that arose during this cabinet period. Targeted cabinet policy has contributed significantly to this. My first question to the Minister is whether that is balanced. Is that fair sharing in prosperity? I'd like a simple answer: yes or no. In the purchasing power note, I read in several places that the purchasing power of pensioners has fallen in general and that this is mainly the result of lagging pension indexing. The failure to index is, if I understand the note correctly, more or less regarded as a matter on which the government would have no influence, something like the weather. In detail, the note gives an overview of elements of income policy that have had an impact on purchasing power. However, there is no mention of the policy regarding the second pillar pension. This policy, strictly speaking, is not an income policy, but it has had a significant impact on income and purchasing power. The failure to mention the effects of pension policy is remarkable, because the cabinet is partly responsible for at least two policies that, to be very careful, have been important for the non-indexation and possible shortening of pensions and thus for the purchasing power of millions of people. I refer to the new financial review framework for pension funds and the new market interest-sensitive interest rate rules, which came into force in 2015. Does the Minister agree with me that this policy area and its effects would not have been wrong in the policy statement? If the Minister shares that view, I'd be happy to hear it. If he doesn't share it, I'd like to hear why. After all, this is also a policy of government with a strong influence, in this case on deferred income. Given that the purchasing power of many pensioners has fallen, according to the Cabinet, mainly due to falling pension indices, I would like to look at the purchasing power development of pensioners who have AOW and not a supplementary pension. The government prides itself on the fact that, contrary to the purchasing power of supplementary pension pensioners, the purchasing power of AOWs has improved, followed by the observation that the general income policy in the cabinet period has reduced income inequality. People at home have the right to see what this PvdA/VVD cabinet has done with their purchasing power. That is why I am asking the following simple questions, to which we are asking a simple and clear answer. A single AOW member has made a total of 5.3% increase in purchasing power during this cabinet period. It is true, therefore, that he has made progress under the Rutte II cabinet. That's good. However, a single person with the minimum wage improved 12.8% over the same period. That is a difference of no less than 7.5%. Why and with what justification? Is that balanced? Is that fair share of prosperity? Is that considered by this PvdA minister to be the fair distribution of lusts? Again like a yes or a no. Another example: a couple with only AOW experienced an increase in purchasing power of 3.5% in this cabinet period. That looks nice. However, a working couple with twice a modal income improved 7.8%. That's a 4.3% difference. Why this difference and with what justification? Is that balanced? Is that fair share of prosperity? Is that considered by this PvdA minister to be the fair distribution of lusts? Again, I'd like a yes or a no. A third example is the purchasing power development of employees compared to those of people with only AOW, based on an index of 100 in the year 2000. For the people at home: so we say that both groups, workers and AOW'ers, started at 100 in the year 2000. Where are these groups in 2012 in terms of purchasing power? AOW'ers are around 110. Employees are well above 130 in terms of purchasing power in 2015. That difference has increased considerably in 2016. Now I ask again: is that balanced? Is that fair share of prosperity? Is that considered by this PvdA minister to be the fair distribution of lusts? Again, I'd like a yes or a no. I have here a recent graph from the Central Bureau of Statistics. Is our summary conclusion correct that not only the purchasing power gap between all pensioners and workers but also the purchasing power gap between AOWs without supplementary pensions and employees has increased significantly during this period of office? Did AOWs simply share less than employees in the increase in prosperity during this cabinet period, yes or no? And how can the Minister justify this to the people at home? That's not balanced, is it? That's not social, is it? It would be a good thing for the Minister and the Cabinet to admit that the available income for all households in the past cabinet period has not been matched by the growth of gross domestic product. This is true for all households together: for workers and to a greater extent for AOWs and much more for pensioners with supplementary pensions. Couldn't it have been any other way? Shouldn't it have been any other way? That's what I'm asking this minister. 50PLUS thinks so. Overlooking income policy over the almost past cabinet period, 50PLUS concludes that building bridges has failed very sadly for AOW'ers and pensioners with a supplementary pension. The bridge is simply too short. The purchasing power wedge between workers and pensioners, including AOW'ers, has only increased under this cabinet of VVD and the Labour Party. It's a gaping hole. Otherwise, 50PLUS can't see it. The cabinet can continue to present thick reports, median purchasing power images, statistical point clouds and tables, but in the end the contents of the wallet and what people can do with it are decisive, I say to the Minister. What people feel and experience at home is no longer laughing or brushing away with quinces and global, flattering purchasing power smoke curtains. The cabinet can still wave away my reflections with care, but the elderly experience daily outside this house that this cleaning away is only done with words. I come to income policy for 2017. We have the purchasing power figures of Prinsjesdag, but now the picture has changed and the assumptions made by the cabinet, for example about the increase in nominal health and transport and energy costs, have become obsolete. 50PLUS would like to receive the most up-to-date purchasing power perspective for 2017. Can we do that? And can you do that for Christmas? The cabinet points out next year's purchasing power package, which will lose purchasing power not 90% but 23% of pensioners in 2017. That's still almost 700,000 people. In the case of workers, 9% of people lose purchasing power. I ask the Minister: why this difference? For next year, the purchasing power picture for pensioners with a fast brush has been set to a plus of 0.6%. The working population is 1% and so it is getting better. Why this difference? And with what justification? Why does the purchasing power gap need to widen again next year? I ask the Minister: is that strong, is that social? I come now to the figures of the CBS that just became known. Between 2000 and 2015, the working population improved 32% in purchasing power. Pensioners with supplementary pensions declined by 10% in the same period. That's a 42% difference. With this year it is 45%. Finally, on the subject of income policy, I would like to mention one practical point. According to our information, the UWV and the Tax Administration send mail to clients abroad in the language of the country in which they live. We saw examples of letters for Dutch people living in Spain. For originally Dutch clients, the strange situation arises that they should first have these letters translated into Dutch, because these letters may contain information that may be relevant to their rights and obligations. The knowledge of the language in the country of residence is often insufficient when it comes to legal or technical-financial terms. Anyone who asks the Tax Administration to send the letters in Dutch in future will be helped neatly, but in many cases this is not possible at the UWV. 50PLUS considers that a Dutch benefit body that pays and administers Dutch benefits should do so in the Dutch language, so that Dutch clients do not have to hire a translator to understand the mail from the Netherlands. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I come to the problem of older people's unemployment. We all know: more than six out of ten unemployed 45-plus-year-olds are still out of work for a long time. That's a disgrace on the government's blazon. Fortunately, we agree on this and the Minister has made a second action plan. Moreover, at our request, he appointed an ambassador for older people's unemployment after long pressing for it. So much for homage. 50PLUS mainly runs into a certain part of the new plan, Perspective for 50+, namely the second career interview, at least at the high amount that has been released for this purpose. There is no doubt that career interviews can contribute to the long-term employability of people, but 50PLUS takes the view that this is primarily an employer's task. Indeed, many collective agreements already require them to conduct regular discussions, in which sustainable employability should really be addressed. It should therefore be dealt with and it may be good to invest extra in the so-called vulnerable groups, but that does not justify the commitment of no less than EUR 25 million, which is the biggest cost in the plan. Isn't that too much betting on one horse? For example, part of this money could be better invested in intensive support for job seekers. For example, you offer more people tailor-made guidance, something that can be proven to help and also motivate everyone. For example, transfer 10 million to intensive support and you can already help 15,000 more jobseekers. Or maybe get a higher budget for education. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would also like to repeat the question I asked Mr Marcouch. Age discrimination could perhaps be countered as happens in other countries, by proposing to apply without a date of birth. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The number of older people in the assistance is and remains alarmingly high. From September last year to September this year, according to the CBS, the number rose by 11,000 to 229,000. Many olderzzp'ers also end up in the assistance. In any case, it is good to realise that, under the leadership of Prime Minister Rutte, 100,000 people have joined the assistance. Shouldn't that have been different? Couldn't it have been otherwise? 229 000 people aged 45 and over in the welfare system; add this to the approximately 240,000 unemployed 45+. It is therefore almost half a million people aged 45 and over who have entered the reserve bank to speak with the Ambassador Elder unemployment. It's frightening. In addition to a lot of personal suffering, this also involves a worryingly high amount of public expenditure if you add up WW and assistance benefits. This justifies a higher budget and more ambition in this area. And of course results aren't one-on-one enforceable, but more and focused bet helps. Again, prevention is better than cure. In this case you need to bet a little more money on the front to avoid more spending at the back. I like to get a reaction. In any case, this minister's labour market policy gives a lot of thought in terms of effectiveness. His own party admits that too, and the coalition partner even wants him to do his homework again. That's not good, because let's be honest: it just didn't turn out to be good enough. Think of the sectoral plans, the effectiveness of which can hardly be demonstrated. What have these plans actually resulted in for the different age groups of job seekers? Furthermore, the Work and Security Act is a failure. Even the Prime Minister states that expressing his true opinion on this would cause a cabinet crisis. Many experts, including Professor Bas Jacobs, Professor Sylvester Eijffinger and the CPB, indicate that falling unemployment is not due to government policies at all, but to the attracting economy. According to these experts, the government's policy has even resulted in substantial job losses, amounting to no less than 365 000 jobs. Let this number get through to you for a moment. If you spend 1.2 billion on sectoral plans and millions on the first action plan for the elderly, but do pursue cabinet policies which result in job losses, I would call that at least contradictory. And then I express myself mildly. It's a waste of taxpayers' money. In any case, the sector plans have so far proved too ineffective. This is evident from research carried out by SEO Economic Research. The same is evident from the fourth quickscan. Of course there is progress, but for the amount invested it is simply not enough. I would like to highlight one thing: the educational vouchers. 13 000 applications have been submitted. Of these 65% have been awarded. That's 8,450. That's limited. Of the number of applications, the low number of 400 jobseekers aged 45 and over came from long-term care. How is it possible that this number is so incredibly low? How many of these 400 applications have been granted at all? Has there been enough publicity on the possibility of educational vouchers? Does the Minister think it is a good idea to give this more priority? Can he describe in more detail what the project Strong in your work, care for yourself means? I am asking for a response to the concrete objectives to be achieved, the duration and the design. 50PLUS has already stated that more needs to be done to provide guidance to unemployed 45-plussers in the care sector. With a training voucher alone, many of them will not get there. Mind you, the government itself indicates that there are no less than 74,000 WW beneficiaries coming from the care sector. That's worrying. This spring, the General Court questioned the effectiveness of the Action Plan on Older People's Unemployment. Not all policy instruments are clear about how much money is involved, how many unemployed people over 50 have been reached and how many people have actually been helped to get back to work. Of course you can't. With the new plan "Perspective for over 50s," this really needs to be better regulated, otherwise it becomes unfocused throwing money, and the government itself wants to get rid of it. The Court of Auditors made a number of recommendations in this investigation, which was very symbolically presented on meat-and-bone day. Those recommendations were the following. Identify how each policy instrument is measured. Capture how many older people are being reached. Determining the expenditure involved. Identify how the effectiveness of the policy instruments is measured, making use of already available information. To make necessary adjustments to the systems for recording mobility bonuses and premium discounts for monitoring the number of users and measuring the results. 50PLUS would like to hear from the Minister how he will ensure the objectives of the new action plan along these lines. The explanatory part of the budget deals with the automatic increase in the AOW age with the increase in life expectancy. 50PLUS believes that this rapid increase in AOW age causes more and more problems for people. AOW holes grow and are closed provisionally or not. People are missing thousands of euros of AOW that they did count on. The well-deserved old age is becoming more and more a mirage for people. That's gonna chop it up. Just remember, one in five people doesn't reach the AOW age by now. In particular, the unemployed and people who are not in the fortunate situation of reaching the age of AOW entitled in reasonable health are affected. Those are the vulnerable people with lower incomes and heavier occupations. Those people get hit hard. That's not strong. That's not social. 50PLUS believes that the AOW age should go back to 65 years. What opportunities does the Minister see for meeting people who are most affected and who are more likely to be affected by the automatic increase in the age of AOW? With ANBO, 50PLUS believes that, in view of the increasing age of AOW, which we do not want, the bridging regime should also be reviewed in its entirety. The people with an AOW-hole are entitled to this. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I come to the cost-sharing standard, i.e. the cost-of-care penalty. At present, people at home are already suffering the adverse effects of these measures. Above the market there is still the cost sharing standard for AOW'ers. We ask for a substantive response to the suggestions made by KBO-PCOB and ANBO in their comments on the budget. As far as we are concerned, the cost sharing standard needs to be reviewed. If it's up to 50PLUS, it's off the track. Too many groups are unintentionally and hard hit by this. How does the Minister view this? I'm coming to the possible pension discounts. The Minister mentions in the policy agenda in the budget that the low levels of coverage of pension funds create an additional challenge for a balanced purchasing power development. The government has a responsibility here. After all, it is partly responsible for the financial rules and frameworks of pension funds. The Secretary of State, after many pluses and loves, is very perhaps willing to move something along with the recovery periods of the funds. You and I know that this doesn't solve anything and actually isn't much more than spreading pain; pain that isn't necessary at all. 50PLUS is very disappointed that the Secretary of State categorically rejects any other option to prevent discounts. That's unwise. 50PLUS has now tabled a legislative proposal to take action as long as the policy of monetary expansion of the European Central Bank keeps market interest rates artificially extremely low. As a result, the coverage grades are printed extra. This creates additional and unnecessary problems for pension funds. With our legislative proposal, for the duration of the policy of the ECB's monetary expansion, we place a temporary base of 2% in the interest rate term structure. This is a very prudent, cautious approach, whereby we do not count funds rich and nothing fundamentally changes the financial rules of pension funds. The aim is only to avoid objectively unnecessary pension reductions for workers in the construction phase and for pensioners in the benefit phase. The proposal ensures that pensioners can reap the full benefits of their own deferred wage paid during their working lives. There is no question of reducing the pension capacity of young people, let alone future generations. To sum up, I say about the threatening reductions: they can and must be prevented. According to 50PLUS, they are not necessary and bad for workers and pensioners. I now come to the pension system debate. The policy agenda of the budget goes into this. I will begin with a warning to the Secretary of State and to the colleagues. They may seem open doors, but they are sincere concerns that live at 50PLUS. Do not throw overboard the current pension system, which is proven to be one of the best and strongest in the world, but choose the following questions as starting point. How can you essentially maintain and maintain the current system? How can you continue to arm it for today's societal challenges? The introduction of new risks and uncertainties in the system should be avoided as far as possible. In most scenarios, the existing pension contract provides more evidence than personal pension schemes. Also remember that only adequate contributions can lead to a decent pension, regardless of which system one chooses. What you put in, basically comes out with returns. Unfortunately, the premium levy has been too low for years. As a result, losses are made on new pension claims. This is then offset by pension assets of pensioners. That is unwise, and it is also unjust. Does the Cabinet agree with us? Does the cabinet agree with us that this should end, yes or no? We must not allow ourselves to be tempted by the idea that an entirely new financial system will solve the problems of the present whole. That's a real illusion. With a new system, you don't create money. Any new funded pension system will suffer from interest rates and rising life expectancy. This also applies to every SER variant. The more we individualize pension and offer customization, the more expensive it can ultimately unpack. It's definitely getting more complicated. More individualisation and more freedom of choice, no matter how logical and appealing, can put collectivity, solidarity, compulsoryity, pension security and pension outcome at greater risk than is justified. The studies of the CBS, recent statements of a director of the Netherlands Bank and reports of the Pension Federation also point to the reverse of rigorous reforms. There are, everything overlooking, so still plenty of challenges. In its in-depth studies presented last week, the Pension Federation is coming up with some important conclusions, which should give us some thought. These are most of the points that we have repeatedly pointed out in Parliament's pension consultations. Collective risk sharing provides substantial profits for the pension result. Less risk-sharing jeopardises the high level of obligation. Abolition of the average premium is legally vulnerable due to age discrimination and probably not even feasible by 2020. The government must take responsibility for any legal consequences. Implementation of large integrated transitions in a short period of time is very risky, says the Pension Federation. We also find the conclusion of the Pension Federation that, on the basis of quantitative analyses, it is not possible to say in general terms that one prototype is better or worse than the other. Is there at the moment sufficient ground and certainty to fundamentally change the system in the short term? 50PLUS questions that and asks the Secretary of State why the Pension Federation has not further examined the abolition of the average system within an existing contract. Why is the question of whether compensation for certain cohorts is appropriate not answered? We find that remarkable. After all, the cabinet wants to abolish the average premium for all contracts anyway. Moreover, it is striking that until now there has been relatively little attention to the fact that the abolition of the average premium, combined with the gradual build-up, is at the disadvantage of higher-skilled workers who are going to work later and also of women who become mothers and who do not work or work less for a number of years. That might be something to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u418	Mr Van Weyenberg has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u419	In any case, I can conclude that Mr Krol can put more commas in a sentence than even Fidel Castro has ever succeeded. Compliments for that. I've been standing here for a while, I'll tell you what. Seriously. I have listened for ten minutes to Mr Krol, who has declared the pension system sacred, but he must agree with me that in this system, the trust of young and old runs away. Young people think, "Hey, what's mine now?" Pensioners see that they are much more dependent on interest than when they have their own pension fund. Mr Krol gives the impression that pensions are going well. I have a different view from Mr Krol, but I expected a supporter in him to at least do something different. Why is he so conservative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u420	I am super persistent when it comes to our Dutch pension system, because it is still one of the best in the world. It would help enormously if D66 were to stop scaring young people into this pension system. Just say quite honestly that it is one of the best, if not the best in the world, and that there will soon be enough for young people as well. Let us also look at what has been put into the pension pots for the group of people up to 35 years old, for the group of people from 35 to 65 years old and for the group of people who have now retired. Give that information honestly and then Mr Van Weyenberg understand why I am happy with our pension system. I do not declare it sacred, because things can be improved, but I welcome our pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u421	The conclusion is that this does not happen if Mr Krol sits on the buttons and introduces the real interest rate. I regret that he takes the money away from young people, but I think it is even worse that he actually says to the elderly that we can pay out quietly and that young people and workers do not suffer from it at all. Has Mr Krol read the interview with Director Elderson in Pension Pro today? It says that this kind of "truck-making" is basically the same as stealing money from your child's piggy bank or your grandchild. Pensioners don't want to do that, and they wouldn't do that at all. The only reason they think it's possible now is because Mr Krol tells them it's free money. My appeal to Mr Krol is quite another: let us work together on a system for young and old, with solidarity, but stop this kind of premonition to pensioners that you have solutions that do not harm young and workers, while everyone except Mr Van Prague simply admits it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u422	It's ten to twelve and we can go on until tomorrow morning, but we can't agree on this. We continue to believe that what is being built for young people must also be done through a higher input. It's not happening enough right now. If that happens, there will be nothing going on for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u423	Mr Krol reminds me a little of a pyromaniac who says, "Watch out, an arsonist." What does Mr Krol think that the pension system that his party is trying to bring to a high level is doing with the system? I can imagine a great deal about pension issues, but this is the creation of a pension panic, as Mr Krol and his party always do. Is this conducive to the maintenance of the system or does he not himself put the axe at the roots of the system, which he says he is so proud of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u424	I repeat once more: we are the last party to talk about panic when it comes to our pension system. Our pension system is one of the best in the world. There's no need to panic at all. That panic comes from Mr. Kerstens. We're just trying to stop that panic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u425	So after all, the arsonist who warns of an arsonist. I have only just heard a possible new Member of Parliament of 50PLUS deny that, for example, we are all getting older on average and that it is not necessary at all for the pension system to which Mr Krol says that he is so proud to take that into account. I am often in the country at meetings where I hold debates with people of 50PLUS. I say one thing: 50PLUS creates a pension panic and the people who are really going to suffer are the people who think they can count on 50PLUS. I'll tell them to think about your case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u426	We are listening to the warning, but I totally disagree with my colleague. My colleague, too, has not heard him say that the average age is falling, because that is not the case. All she said was that there was a temporary dip last year. It had something to do with the flu wave. Please don't let Mr. Christmas talk nonsense. 50PLUS acknowledges that the cabinet is increasingly committed to a better approach to poverty and debt issues, but it is highly questionable whether it is sufficient. The approach that exists seems slow, too fragmented and insufficiently comprehensive. 50PLUS sees it as a wipe sign that more people with financial problems are knocking at the churches for help. This indicates shortcomings in regular debt relief, which is now invested in municipalities. It is true that poverty is, to a lesser extent, a problem for the group of older people, but there are also poverty and financial deficits among them. There is a accumulation of care, housing and other costs that remain out of the picture in the regular purchasing power cards. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the impressive collection of KBO entitled Elders breaking the silence, with dozens of poignant stories of elderly people who can barely make a living financially. I advise everyone to read the story about the 100-year-old man again. The results of the annual Nibud study also speak volumes. What is the Cabinet going to do for this large vulnerable, less visible group of older people? What are we doing about the accumulation of social and financial problems which the purchasing power figures only show in part or not? We also call on the Minister, in a general sense, to engage actively in discussions with the municipalities on poverty and debt relief. Form an integrated poverty policy and, together with them, focus on prevention, early warning, removing obstacles in the debt relief process, further professionalisation of municipal aid, even better protection of debtors and, yes, even more support from the Empire. The debt-lending path must be made more easily accessible and easier. 50PLUS still sees few developments in this direction. Each debtor is entitled to an individual and reasoned consideration by the municipality, even if one is or was not an employed person. Unfortunately, too many people still do not get appropriate help. This is evident from every research and this leads to great personal and social damage. In this context, I would like to return to the first theme of my contribution: a high level of poverty and financial deficit, including among older people with only AOW, a high level of residential care and additional costs, can be traced back to an overly rigid social minimum. These and other groups with a minimum income currently do not sufficiently share welfare growth and are therefore more likely to suffer. It's as simple as that. We wholeheartedly share the view of the Social Alliance that the government has a civilisation obligation to raise the social minimum to a level high enough to live properly. 50PLUS concludes that the high interest rates for personal loans should be put to an end. Unfortunately, people are still made far too easy to borrow money and buy on pay-off at huge usury interest rates. This is where much of the debt problem that is difficult to solve comes from. We also call for increased commitment from the rulers. Can that be promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u427	Mr. Chairman. It's almost 12:00. We've been meeting over seven hours on the budget. I hope there are still viewers. If people are watching afterwards, it is important to see that we are discussing the budget here for seven hours. I think that after Mr Krol's speech there should also be some tension in this Chamber. Otherwise it's gonna be... well, let's not say the word. Four years of Minister Asscher, four years of job plans that do not create jobs. Four years of flex legislation that only gives flex work. Four years of integration policy, but no acceptance policy. As a Member of Parliament, I met the Minister well during this period. At that time, I learned that this minister is a minister with many faces. Today I would like to offer insight into the five faces of Minister Asscher. Face number one is the coalition face. If the VVD doesn't allow this minister to do anything, then he functions as a forward minister. Hot irons are pushed forward until after the election. We see this, for example, in the case of payment of wages in the event of illness. 50% of small entrepreneurs find pay-as-you-go sick an obstacle to hiring staff. They do not dare to hire people because they have to pay two years' wages in case of illness. And that is when this cabinet makes big and expensive tax deals with multinationals that avoid tax. 1.4 billion in tax avoidance by Google while the baker does not dare to hire a cashier. 25 million tax breaks for Starbucks while the hairdresser in the neighborhood is afraid to appoint a colleague. 15 million in tax benefit for PostNL, while the pizzeria does not dare to appoint a deliveryer. But what does this Secretary of State do? Nothing at all. He's been working on this file since 2014. He'll have an investigation done. He'll have the CPB make a pass-through. He's asking the ESC for an opinion. But we don't need research to know that small entrepreneurs can't grow now, do we? After all these researches, entrepreneurs aren't gonna hire staff, are they? This minister has created more jobs in research than in small businesses. That is why DENK calls on this minister to collect the payment of wages in case of illness for small entrepreneurs, because if the government draws the wallet for multinationals, it must do the same for SMEs. Face number two is the election face. This minister anticipates more and more on March 2017, especially because this minister wants to put Diederik Samsom out of his misery as leader of the PvdA. That is why this Minister functions as a pacifier minister. He's looking at the polls. Getting into a low point is of course smart, because worse than today's polls can hardly be the election result for the PvdA. Various groups in the country get a pacifier to distract them from the ruins of four years Minister Asscher. It's drops on a glowing record to win voters. For example, fathers of this minister receive a five-day extra partner's leave. But with five days, we don't make the relationships between men and women fair. 18-year-olds receive the pacifier of 6.5% increase in the minimum youth wage. But with 6.5%, we cannot prevent many young people from living their lives on their own. Unfortunately, for the 17% of children at risk of exclusion and poverty, this minister is spending a poor 100 million on school trips and sports equipment. 130,000 children in the Netherlands have been living in poverty for four years. For four years too little was looked at them, but just before the election they get a free school trip from this minister. Puppies of the election face of Minister Asscher. Don't fall for it, I'd like to say to the people in the country. Face number three is Minister Asscher's look-away face. This minister sometimes seems to close his eyes to rules, so that he can avoid difficult measures. With that, he may be a law-abiding minister. Then I am talking about the payment of AOW to residents of illegal Israeli settlements. They were wrongly paid a full AOW benefit for years, whereas they should actually receive only half. This minister and his officials just knew. This is evident from internal documents and answers to parliamentary questions. This is demonstrated by reconstructions from the media. It is not for nothing that this minister now has a claim for alleged abuse of office on his pants. But where this minister left people in illegal Israeli settlements alone and gave them a full AOW, he was carrying out bullying measures for many people in other countries with the principle of housing, with the ban on the export of child benefit. A full AOW in Israeli settlements, but not a full AOW in Western Sahara in Morocco. But generous for illegal settlers, not generous for the children in Turkey. However, amend the law for Israelis in the West Bank, no measures for widows in Paramaribo. This minister made every effort to reduce benefits for people in Morocco and other countries, but settlers in Israeli settlements illegally received too high AOW benefits. Scandalous! Face number four is the integration face of this minister. In the field of integration, the differences between DENK and this minister are greatest. According to DENK, people born here do not need to integrate at all. Yet every year, this minister brings up his integration monitor. In this he looks at certain groups of Dutch people differently. But why do social contacts say something about integration at Selçuk Öztürk, but not at Sander Dekker? Why does unemployment say something about integration with so-called newcomer Tunahan Kuzu, but not with Ton Elias? Why does educational attainment say something about integration at Farid Azarkan, but not Fred Teeven? Integration policy is based on double standards. Unfortunately, people who have lived here for generations have to prove themselves again. They are always seen as newcomers, while Dutch people do not. Go back to your own country, foreigner; that's what they hear, while they're just Dutch. In an interview, the minister said that discrimination and swearing made him feel more Jewish. We at DENK find these insults horrible. But can the Minister understand that what he feels also applies to many other Dutch people? That they feel less Dutch because they are seen as different? That they no longer feel at home because of the double size? That's why DENK calls on the Minister to stop integrating and start accepting policies. Perform an annual acceptance monitor. Take discrimination hard and stop with that double size. Finally, face number 5 is the Minister's research face. The minister's been promoted to a lawyer. So he knows a lot about scientific methods. Nevertheless, he willfully and knowingly uses bollocks to achieve his political goals. The Motivation study wasn't right. It had the level of a toddler's piece, yet the minister decided to use it. He brought the investigation out and gave interviews about it in the media. The headlines were then terrible: 90% of Turkish-Dutch youngsters find Syrians heroes, 87% of Turkish-Dutch youth sympathize with IS, 83% of Moroccan-Dutch youth sympathize with IS. It's all bullshit. The Minister knew all too well. Didn't he talk to these kids on a regular basis? The director of Motivation urged him not to publish the investigation. Still, he did. In his opinion, further research did not have the desired result. Does the Minister realize that he has damaged the young people with this? Does he realize that the young can't get an internship? Does he realize that these young people couldn't get a job? That's why we're taking stock. I mentioned Minister Asscher's five faces, but what is his true face? That is the face of a real Hague politician, a politician who uses shit research, makes empty promises and thus tries to maintain his position over the backs of people. The small entrepreneurs in the Netherlands therefore deserve an apology. The Turkish-Dutch young people in the Netherlands therefore deserve an apology. The children in poverty deserve an apology. In fact, the whole of the Netherlands deserves an apology from this minister. That is why we want to give the Minister one last chance to apologize. Diederik Samsom did. The Prime Minister did the same. If he does not, we will be forced to table a motion of censure in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u428	Mr. Chairman. Since the election of Trump, the Brexit and our own Ukraine referendum, there has been frequent talk of the so-called evil white man. What we see, however, is not a rebellion of angry white men, as the left often calls the Netherlands, but a large group of disappointed citizens. They are disappointed in looking away politicians, disappointed in a government that fails on many fronts and disappointed in the unsung establishment that cramps to makeability ideals that have long been overtaken by harsh reality. Much of the disappointment and concern is about immigration and integration. Left-wing ideas about equal cultures, open borders and imposed solidarity have resulted in misery. Mass immigration, terror, radical Islam and the emergence of a parallel society: it puts enormous pressure on our society, both in the financial and socio-cultural sense. It is the practical consequences of left-wing ideals, the shadows of the idea that the world is everyone's, the dream of social democracy. But, Mr President, social democracy is dead. The people are done with the ringing finger of the politically correct goede gemeente. Rightful concerns about Islamic extremism are now being dismissed as Islamophobia. Support for a cultural tradition such as Black Piet gets the stamp racism, and criticism of the huge immigration flows towards our country is now called far right. The Netherlands expects politicians to propose solutions to problems and not that politicians here smother the debate with political-correct babbling and look away from major issues such as failed integration. The balance sheet of four years of VVD and Labour Party in the government is very sad in this area. We see Jewish students being interviewed unrecognizably for fear of intimidation and a synagogue threatened by jihadists, but at the same time we hear that the police stations are being removed from the building. We hear of violent preachers who are still able to enter our country and mosques with terrorist ties, which are not being closed down. It's incomprehensible. With the elections approaching, the cabinet is now presenting a plan to tackle dubious mosques lenders. That's good, of course. Let's hope it's settled quickly, but over the past four years nothing has been done and mosques have been increasingly taken over by radical Muslims who reject any form of democracy. It is segregation that beats the clock and the cabinet led by VVD Prime Minister Rutte does not intervene, but only watches. What are the words about equality of Minister Asscher really worth as long as separate swimming lessons for Islamic women with painted windows and a ban on entry for men into public swimming pools take place and as long as there are still cleaned versions of integration courses, in which gays and women in bathing clothes are censored away? Since last week, we even know that the Internet Discrimination Information Point believes that it is okay to call for violence against homosexuals, as long as it is done, among other things, on behalf of Islam. What does this cabinet do next? Nothing. Even the subsidy tap stays open. We see a cabinet that confesses our Western core values with its mouths, but at the same time does nothing when those core values are under pressure. There is often talk of Islamophobia in the common man, but it seems more like Islamophobia in the establishment. Political correctness seems to be completely out of control. I would like a response from the Minister. There has also been a lot of talk lately about the appearance of Black Piet. This Zwarte Piet has now become the direct object in a discussion about the identity of the Netherlands. Who are we and who do we want to be? Are we a society that stands for its core values, its history and its traditions, or do we yield to the pressure of political correctness? Does the Minister see the crazyness of a Rijksmuseum that replaces the word "eskimo" or of a WRR that banishes the word "allochtoon" and, of course, of the criticism of the appearance of a party figure like Black Piet? The cabinet states that the current appearance of Black Piet may be offensive and may encourage prejudice and discrimination. It feels that the Santa Claus party should go with the times. Earlier, however, the Prime Minister said that politics was not at all about the appearance of Black Piet. We are still unclear as to what the cabinet's position is in this regard. We would also like to have a reaction to that. Of course, there is often talk of discrimination and racism in the debate on integration, and rightly so, but that is very one-sided. Practically always we are talking about the angry white man, who has problems with vulnerable immigrants. We rarely hear about the enormous anti-Dutch sentiment that is really present in certain groups of immigrants. Research by Mr Ferwerda has shown years ago that strong anti-Dutch feelings can be a cause of specific violence against indigenous people. And Mohammed Cheppih earlier stated that nine out of ten young Muslims hate Dutch. That seems to us to be a very worrying development. We would like to hear from the cabinet whether it is also aware of these forms of discrimination and racism. If we want to move towards a society where quality and non ethnicity are central and where your commitment and not your origin are decisive, we must stop seeing immigrants as pathetic or as victims. We also need to stop positive discrimination and political correctness. We must move towards an extension of freedom of expression. We have to deal with radical Islam hard. We must respect not only the equality of men and women, but also the equality of men and women. We need to stop without a chance of immigration and introduce the Australian immigration model. Of course, the language requirements for integration examinations, a principle of integration, need to be greatly increased. The disappointment I mentioned at the beginning of the debate is obviously also related to the labour market and to the uncertainty surrounding pensions. Economy and socialism are like water and fire. Unfortunately, that proved to be the case this time too. This minister's job plan has failed. Jobs don't come from the government either, jobs come from the market. Tax cuts, low flat taxes, deregulation and more economic freedom, which generate economic growth and create jobs. Fiscal reform is therefore necessary. Small SME entrepreneurs should also be freed from the payment of wages in the event of illness. The VAR should return forzzp'ers and entrepreneurs rather than be facilitated. I'm gonna end our pensions. Our current system is on its last legs, despite Mr Krol's words. Pensioners are confronted with plans for freezing and even discounts on their pensions. Our young people are probably entitled to retire at 70 and then it is only a question of what is left of the money. VNL therefore calls for a liberal and future-proof pension system: away with the compulsory build-up of the supplementary pension with a collective pension fund, which you should not even choose. Let people decide for themselves how to deal with their supplementary pension. After all, the money belongs to the people themselves, not to the pension funds and not to the government. Therefore, individualise our pension. I'm rounding up. Over the past four years, this cabinet has not reduced the burden, but increased burdens and not integration, but segregation. The Netherlands is restless and the Netherlands is concerned. There's gotta be another way, and there's gotta be another way. More economic freedom creates more individual freedom, more prosperity and more well-being. Therefore, stop the immigration of hopeless people and tackle radicalism hard. In short, do not pursue a policy against the Netherlands, but for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u429	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has fundamental rights. An important fundamental social right is the right to security of life and to spread prosperity. This is included in Article 20 of our Constitution. The government has the task of guaranteeing this right. This can be done through paid work. The government is co-responsible for continuing to create framework conditions for entrepreneurship so that people can have a job and take advantage of talents. It can also be done through unpaid work, such as volunteering and care. The government is partly responsible for their valuable commitment to our society becoming possible and continuing. In all cases, the government has the task of translating this valuation into security for facilities and needs up to a certain minimum level. It is part of our socio-economic security that the government guarantees that someone can pay for shelter, food and clothing. This security is expressed in money by the formulation of minimum wage and the provision of appropriate provisions and arrangements. This minimum level should be sufficient and sustainable for the essentials of life. The differences between rich and poor in income and wealth grew in the 1980s in the Netherlands and elsewhere and in the years after. The distribution between rich and poor is becoming increasingly unbalanced in the Netherlands. This has consequences for social relations. In addition, the economic crisis, the cuts that followed, social changes in thinking about work and the ever-increasing automation and robotisation have a major impact on our labour market. More and more people have gone to work as zzp'ers or go from one temporary flexible part-time job to another. Furthermore, an ever-growing group no longer attracts the financial burden. Or they're getting worse because of their age. This is particularly true for people who are 45 years of age or older. The cabinet is still trying to get people to work with all kinds of patchwork. Those concerned are indirectly told that they are the problem, not the system we are all in. We're getting these signals and we're gonna have to come up with an answer. The basic income offers the solution. Free-minded politics means seeking to convert assistance, AOW and other benefits into an unconditional basic income (obi) for anyone who is 18 years of age or older, is registered in the Netherlands and legally resident there. That unconditional basic income must take the form of a direct payment. The basic income to be introduced is not a passive social safety net, but a form of a personal social budget. It is a budget that can work as a springboard for one's own social and personal development. With that, any human being can be truly free. We must get away from the classic, nineteenth-century market thinking of a traditional game between supply and demand. The question is no longer the question of labour, but how to do the work. The question is no longer what the supply of labour is; it is the answer that has to be given to the question of how the work can be done. In this way an answer to the question can be given. The question is no longer, as in 1900: how many workers do I need to work for the employer? The question in 2017 is: what does the questioner need? Is it gonna take people a long time? Is it gonna take people a shorter time? Are there any specialists needed? Do you need anyzzp'ers? Are automation and robotisation necessary? Flexibility is necessary in order to be able to respond in an inquisitive way. The cabinet, with the party of the old labor and Minister Asscher leading, is hopelessly stuck in cramped attempts to "modernise" nineteenth-century thinking about labor, with the Work and Security Act, with the DBA Act, where deregulation does not appear to be deregulation, with the Law's approach to bogus constructions, with Civil Code Book 7 and messing around in the margins. That's what the new thinking has to end. First of all, liberal politics means thinking. We have to think from people, from people who want to direct themselves. Social anger comes from the old thinking that politics knows what's good for people. At most that is well-intentioned paternalism. But let's stop doing that and take a liberal path, with a basic income that allows people to be free. It allows people to choose how to shape and organise their lives, and how to provide answers to questions from others. A direct introduction of the basic income means an increase to €1,600 per month for people living together in the AOW and living together with a welfare allowance. We believe that a fair increase is being made, because it makes the loss of purchasing power incurred by this government policy towards the people in paid employment more equal and restores it. In the future, this basic income will be even higher, allowing other benefits, surcharges and bureaucracy to be completely abolished. This will lead to a huge simplification of the current social security system. There will be fewer counters and less bureaucracy. At the same time, there is no stress on the ability to pay the fixed charges. As a result, people can feel freer to choose where to find satisfaction. Social differences between paid and unpaid work will be eliminated. A better appreciation and positioning of unpaid volunteering is needed. Tomorrow's the volunteer's Day. No, it's actually already today, because it's been 24 hours. So we're gonna have to fill this out differently. A pat on the back and a flower are sympathetic, but it continues to help, as if volunteering is voluntary. As if we in the Netherlands could do that unpaid work without the 3.2 million people. The power of people is that they themselves give substance to their lives. This can only be done if we also combat displacement. This can be done by introducing the basic income. We strongly support the free choice of people and their independence. Free people make free choices. This means that, unfortunately, self-employed people without staff are increasingly being dismissed as anti-social workers, either because they are paid less social insurance contributions or because they would push workers out of a job. That's classic thinking in contrasts. We reject that. People with basic income give more future to society. The amount of work remains the same or is increased by creativity, entrepreneurship and innovation. Free-minded thinking is based on unfolding and not on false protection structures. After all, any employee can lose his or her job. Self-employed entrepreneurship also means making free choices whether or not to employ people. A forced incentive policy to helpzzp'ers to employees suffers from classical thinking about labor. We think that is a very bad thing. This also leads, for example, to the retention of the self-employed deduction. Furthermore, we consider the whole system of the DBA Act to be an unnecessary judicialisation of the zzp-schap. The VAR profit from the company linked to the Ib attack is sufficient. We will come back to that in detail in the debate on Thursday. In short: no matter what people are going to do, volunteering, becoming a self-employed professional or working as an employed person with a basic income, it is actually a free choice. But what does this hopeless cabinet do? In the letter of 2 December last week, it becomes clear that this cabinet with Minister Asscher sees nothing first of all in the unconditional basic income. Even the option to think about it is wiped off the table. The Cabinet letter recognises that the Free Party has developed a serious possibility. Unlike easy-going parties and parties, the Free-minded Party chooses, as the Cabinet advises, to have the election program and the basic income calculated by the CPB in the context of the Project Choices in Map. The results will become clear in February. Finally, pensions. The best system in the world can only remain the best system by changing, improving and renewing it. My liberal political choice is to choose a pension system in the form of an individual supplementary pension on top of the basic income. That basic income is still the AOW. As I have just indicated, the AOW will be replaced by the unconditional basic income. In advance, we would like to flexibilise the AOW. The increase in the AOW age is now linked to the average life expectancy. That is a remarkable system in itself, because it is an expectation and no one can see in the future. So you can't take that into account. Therefore, the pivotal age should be fixed at 67 years. In 1956 it was imprisoned at 65 years and according to the CBS people were on average 72 years. Then it is reasonable that 60 years later, when people are fortunately getting older on average, namely 81, we should secure the pivotal age at 67. That gives people certainty. So we should not do any further shift, not sneak around for months, but simply determine the pivotal age. That's how we give clarity and certainty. People should then be given freedom of choice to retire five years earlier or five years later in my own initiative law, which is under discussion. I come back to this in detail when I first responded to my bill on the flexibility of the AOW. Flexibilisation of our pension system also means that supplementary pension rights must be granted to the participant, which can then determine the starting date of the pension itself. Solidarity within age groups, the so-called contribution structure in cohorts, independent of industrial relations and a better balance between rights and obligations of individual members and those of the pension fund are the starting point for a value-based pension system. A solid build-up of the capital to a responsible level of coverage is only acceptable if there is room for indexation scales such as customisation per pension fund. We must opt for a solid basis of pension building by assuming a fixed calculation rate of 3% with an age-based progressive contribution. In the end, we have to pay 100% of pensions. A risk buffer is reasonable, but unnecessary buffers that exceed 100% are rejected, as it avoids a value-fixed pension and overtaking years of indexation. That the choice of the Free Party is a social and solidarity choice, we have calculated and, of course, we would like to share. So we also submitted that to the Central Planning Bureau to pass on the calculations. Today's pensioners can count on our approach to strengthening their income. Tomorrow's pensioners can trust that their contribution will now benefit them, even then. Pension funds are aimed at providing sufficient capital to meet liabilities vis-à-vis members. Then the introduction of compulsory public investment in pension funds is a completely wrong signal. On the other hand, I believe that pension funds, because they are social enterprises, should be transparent about their investment policies. An investment policy based on corporate social responsibility, on which participants can also influence. Participants also count. The basis on order means you count. You will count on March 15, 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u430	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. They are good working conditions in the debate on Social Affairs. At this time of night, however, the beginning of the debate with this minister and certainly with the Secretary of State. I would like to raise a number of issues. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to deal with the widespread care of people, especially among the elderly, who are wondering how long human beings can actually continue to work. That question is a logical consequence of an AOW age that moves along with the life expectancy of all of us. But where's that line? A lot of people are wondering. Many would appreciate it if the Secretary of State would take that up again. To what age can the boundary be stretched from a human perspective? I'd like a response. I ask the Secretary of State to look at a fixed number of years after which the age of AOW can enter, because the discussion is still ongoing. Wouldn't a fixed number of 45 years be a good starting point, for example? 45 years after your studies or first income tax return, you've worked enough. The body can handle that. How does the Secretary of State view such an approach, which is also practiced in Germany? We need a new social agreement. The intentions of many of the minister's policies were good. The execution is stalling. Those who listen carefully to the entrepreneurs in SMEs know that the problem lies in the accumulation of schemes, which means that the risks for entrepreneurs to take on permanent employment are no longer visible. They cut off and flee into all kinds of constructions, from payrolling to fake-zzp-ship. A new social agreement: is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this, even now, after he rejected it last month? Earlier, a motion from my hand to the Economic Affairs budget to subject Hague legislation to an SME test was widely supported. Minister Kamp is now working out that test with SMEs. Does the Minister agree with me that a new social agreement only makes sense if it is actually SME proof? SMEs are the job engine and driver of our economy. Only if it can bear laws and regulations will that regulation make sense. Can the Minister ensure in future that that will also be the test? How is he going to involve the real entrepreneurs, and so I am not thinking of the lobbyists of VNO-NCW in small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to carry out this test with them too, in order to achieve the objectives that I share and which SMEs also want. How do we get firm in our business? Re-enhancing? For the sake of clarity, I would like to add my voice and my CDA colleague Heerma's questions on older people's participation. We talked about this a few years ago. I would say: stop with the bureaucratic brakes, support such initiatives, be pleased with them. The Netherlands is crying out for skilled workers. How is that possible? Where are they? What does the Minister think of that shortage? What's he gonna do about this? Let me give a brief explanation for that. It's never the only one, but it's one I've noticed in many places. That's what he does in vocational education itself. The large-scale rocks are so far away from young people, especially outside the Randstad, that many allow the training of their choice to go. If you are 16 years old, you live in Friesland, you want to become a hunting painter and you see a mast everywhere, you still have to travel two hours to Zwolle to take a mbo-4 course there. Those kids aren't going. The Albeda College, an anonymous leather factory in Rotterdam, is unable to get people in shipbuilding and in port to work. But the Ship and Engineering College, carried out by port employers and the port, is a thriving college that loves to guide young people to a job. I would say: go look at the MBO and change it; organize it again close to the companies and close to the young. The organisation of our MBO in too many places does not fit in with the living world of companies and young people. We need to get back to human size. I would like a response from the Minister. The country has never been so bad in terms of integration. Denying the importance of our standards and values and looking away are getting bigger and bigger. Unfortunately, this Minister has also contributed to this. Professor Koopmans wrote it strikingly in the Volkskrant: "Cosmopolites have a dual cultural morality. They want to protect the cultural identity of minorities, while those of the majority are dismissed as questionable nationalism." A large majority in the Netherlands shuddered or fell stunned from his chair when this minister announced on television that the vast majority had to adapt to a small minority. Then how far is the minister from home? Of course, it was about the Black Piet discussion. Even though I do not think that this discussion should belong in this house, society should know for itself that the cabinet has made this a political discussion itself. While the minister claims that it is not a matter of politics, he has repeatedly consulted with groups in his ministry to abolish Black Piet. How can you say that it is not a matter of politics, if you then discuss it as a political director? I would like an explanation on that point. Once again, in Koopmans' words: the cultural identity of minorities is protected, but if a large part of the population wants to preserve and defend their own national culture with its traditions, this is dismissed as racism and nationalism. Immigration and the resulting cultural tensions divide society. I would like the Minister to respond to this commitment and this vision. The Canadian philosopher Kymlicka states that migrants have the right to live in their own social culture, but that they also, in part, voluntarily give it up when they go to another country. Then you adapt to the habits that prevail there. In the meantime, we have understood that Turkish imams cannot be prevented here, because we have a treaty with Europe, and we want to do this differently. I'll use a few more minutes. Can the Minister explain why he did not choose to call that treaty into question? Integration is not going to work like this. Should we not ask asylum seekers to accept Article 1 of the Constitution in advance? Surely we need to know in advance that they want and can integrate here? It cannot be that they come here and then threaten the freedom of others while they are on the run because their own freedom is threatened. Of course, a little extra language lessons for asylum seekers through rackets in language teaching will never work. The number of asylum seekers with temporary status in the assistance is dramatically high. If this is the result, is it not better to receive fewer asylum seekers than to receive too many asylum seekers who now end up in the assistance and in vulnerable neighbourhoods? I would like a response from the Minister. I agree with D66: is the Minister prepared to make education for this group simply a public task again? Asylum seekers need to go to school not just a few hours a week, but every day of the week until they have a job. I would like a response from the Minister. Finally. The Minister is now arguing for a radically different Europe. The fetish, the sacred taboo of the free movement of workers, seems finally to be under discussion. I've been pleading for that for years. Does the Minister now want to take this step by step or does he agree with the New Roads Party that a new treaty for Europe should be created? This Europe has failed as a political project, says Tilburg professor Gabriel van den Brink. Will the Minister continue with the corps of EU leaders in order to change as little as possible, step by step, in the hope that there will be a new wind? Or is he also prepared, in his plea for a radically different Europe, to advocate a new treaty based on the protection of workers and the ending of benefits for large businesses through, among other things, tax advantages? And does he stop the European procurement laws that leave us small and medium-sized enterprises empty-handed? I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-27.u431	We came here at the end of the first term of office. We will continue to deal with the Social Affairs and Employment budget tomorrow at around three o'clock. The Minister and the Secretary of State will then have the opportunity to reply to all the questions put by Members of Parliament. Have a good night.
