ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u1	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66. The speaking time in this debate is four minutes per group. That's not much, but you can say a lot in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u2	Absolutely. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister on having a seat on the Security Council. At the European Championships it is quite difficult to stop the Italians, but this minister managed to keep the Italians on a tie. We'll put that in our pockets. A political, economic and humanitarian crisis is taking place in Venezuela. We're running out of drugs, we're running out of food, and there's even food riots. The Socialist People's Man Maduro makes Venezuela a failing state. He's stopping humanitarian aid. There are 70 murders a day and in the meantime Maduro is putting everything into effect to maintain his own power. Let me just give you some examples: rule by decree and declare a state of emergency that will put the parliament out of play, appoint him well-intentioned judges in the Supreme Court, postpone a referendum on his position until 2017. International criticism of this failing state is increasing. The Organization of American States (OAS) rightly points out Venezuela, the High Representative of the European Union spoke about it and even China is now talking to the Venezuelan opposition. However, this cabinet remains silent. I see a lot of press releases from the cabinet, but I do not see anything about Venezuela, about the elections, about the crisis and about humanitarian aid, while Venezuela is the largest neighbour of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Last year, almost the entire Chamber expressed its concern about what was happening in this state. I referred, for example, to corruption, insecurity and human rights violations. The Minister said "I'm not naive" at the time, but yet, according to today's letter, he chooses to step up cooperation with Venezuela. I think that's kind of naive. I wonder if the Minister really knows what's going on in Venezuela. I would very much like the Minister to be very clear. Let me make some suggestions about that. Last year, I called on the government by motion to plead for the release of opposition members and students. The European Parliament has recently asked for this again. How did the Minister implement my motion? Can the Minister plead for humanitarian aid to be admitted? Why does the Minister particularly point to the European Union for human rights projects? Can it not be that we also have a bilateral interest in promoting human rights in Venezuela? What does the Minister think about sanctions against individuals who have committed human rights violations, such as the United States? The political, economic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela leads people to flee the country. Of course that is not so bad at the moment, but the country Venezuela is really a ticking time bomb. The nearby Dutch islands are simply a logical destination. However, the Minister does not expect a massive flow of migration to the islands, even if the situation deteriorates. What is the Minister's assessment based on? Does he realize that the border with Colombia is tight right now? Last year, I advocated developing scenarios for that migration flow. In what way was that motion carried out? What scenarios are there now? What about migration policy on the islands? It's not just about migration, of course. Venezuela is also a threat to the Dutch Kingdom. Think of the large-scale exercises that the Venezuelan army has recently carried out. How is this anticipated? What's the status of the Coast Guard's readiness? What kind of scenarios are there if Maduro decides to take the flight forward and do something weird in the military field? Why is our coast guard still practicing Venezuela's? Shouldn't we stop doing that under the circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u3	Abusefully, I have not yet welcomed the Foreign Minister to our home. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Venezuela is in a deep crisis, an unprecedented economic crisis, with an economic decline and an enormous inflation rate, rising to as many as hundreds of percent. This leads to major problems, especially for the poor people of the country. There are reports of long queues for supermarkets and shortage of drugs in hospitals. There is no doubt that the low oil price, which has been more than halved in a short time, has contributed significantly to this. Venezuela is very dependent on the export earnings of this product. The firm reforms initiated by President Chávez at the time, at the end of the last century, some people talk of revolution, which has not changed much. For the opposition in Venezuela, the economic crisis is also explained by political malpractice, while the government, led by President Maduro, speaks of economic opposition by the elite. There is even talk of economic warfare. I understand that it is difficult for the Minister to identify the exact causes of the economic crisis, but I would ask him to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u5	I think this is special. Of course, oil prices have fallen, but so has oil prices in many other countries around the world, such as Saudi Arabia, where 70% of oil revenues come from them. I do not think there are any food riots or all kinds of problems and concerns that I do see in Venezuela. Is this bad situation only because of the price of oil, or could it also be because of the government of the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u6	The latter is certainly the case. By the way, I would watch out for comparisons with Saudi Arabia, because if there is one Islamic state with a harsh dictatorship, it is Saudi Arabia. I assume that Mr Bosman does not want to see this as an example, as a model country for countries in Latin America.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u7	No, it's just a comparison. We sometimes draw this comparison in all kinds of different ways. Mr Van Bommel mentions the oil. Oil comes from a lot of countries. I could have mentioned Russia, or a lot of other countries, but in Saudi Arabia, 70% of the income is generated by oil. Mr Van Bommel explicitly mentions oil as the cause of the problem. I am glad that he admits that it may also be up to the Socialist Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u8	I didn't just mention the oil. I said that the halving of oil prices has contributed significantly to the crisis. The policy of the Venezuelan Government itself has certainly contributed to this. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u9	I would ask Mr Van Bommel to be a little more critical. His own group chairman, Mr Roemer, visited Mr Chávez in 2013. At that time they were still close friends and Venezuela was a socialist welfare state. That is all very well, but how does Mr Van Bommel look at what Chávez and Maduro have done to the country of Venezuela? Is Mr Van Bommel's Socialist Party still behind that? Or is she saying that, in retrospect, it wasn't the very best policy that was possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u10	First a correction: my party has never called Venezuela a socialist state of salvation. I challenge Mr Sjoerdsma to discuss the quote in question so that we can determine whether or not we have said it. I don't think that was ever said by my party. One fact is that the government under Chávez has paid a great deal of attention to the position of the poorest in the country, and it is also a fact that there has been progress for the poor through redistribution and other policies. At the same time, however, we can see that the economic policy of that government has also helped to bring the country down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u11	A little sharper, though. Mr Van Bommel is now saying that many poor people have been able to improve their position. That's what the Socialist Party said in 2013. The position of the poorest would have improved and also the middle-income people would have improved. Shouldn't Mr Van Bommel simply conclude that the experiment there failed mercilessly and that it was a façade that couldn't stand up in the end? It seems to me that it is important to get to that point, because the SP at least made the appearance during that visit, let me put it this way, if Mr Van Bommel wants to be very sharp about the fact that it was a friendly regime that we could learn something from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u12	We must always look at what we can take from other countries. We must accept the good things and give them good advice on the wrong things. I keep saying that taking care of a different distribution of income in Venezuela has helped to improve the poorest. We see poverty in the Netherlands rising, but poverty declined there. In itself, I think that is a good outcome of the policy. At the same time, I repeat, economic policy has helped the country to be demolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u13	Please continue, Mr Van Bommel, before we move the debate to another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u14	It's about another country, Mr. President. I'd like to keep doing that anyway. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister to respond to the recent decision of the Venezuelan Supreme Court not to allow humanitarian aid. Does this mean that international organisations in this area can no longer mean anything to Venezuela? What scope do the NGOs have? In addition to the economic crisis, there is a political crisis, which is an expression of the enormous polarisation in the country. For some sixteen years the so-called Chavistas have been in charge in Venezuela, but since the end of last year there has been a parliament led by the united opposition: the Mesa de la Unidad Democrática (MUD). On the government side, this leads to the concentration of more power in the hands of the President, who can rule by decree. This leads to further polarisation and radicalisation. Radical rhetoric from both sides, rhetoric that regularly seems to exceed the limits of democracy, is the result. It literally results in a life-threatening situation, including political violence. That political violence in Venezuela can take serious forms, we saw in early 2014. Then 43 people were killed in protests. In the present circumstances, such violence can easily be repeated. That is why it is very important for political leaders in the country to get closer together, but that process does not want to run for anything. I understood that discussions were held between the two camps in May, but that there was no direct contact. No results have been achieved. Shortly after the consultation, both camps accused each other of spreading lies about the meeting. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees this dialogue and whether international organisations can play a role in taking steps forward in this area. Political polarization is also reflected in the capture and prosecution of political opponents. The well-known opposition leader Leopoldo López was sentenced to years of imprisonment a few years ago. Amnesty International says he's a prisoner of conscience. Can the Minister comment on this matter? Can he also indicate how many people are locked up in Venezuela for political reasons? How are the Venezuelan authorities addressed and what exactly is the EU doing to monitor trials against political opponents? Are there any obstacles on Venezuela's part to attending trials? Is there fair justice? The united opposition in Venezuela seems mainly united on one point: the current President Maduro, whose term expires in 2019, must leave as soon as possible. Venezuela's constitution offers the possibility of sending the president home early through a recall referendum. That is what the opposition is putting in place. Can the Minister comment on the state of play of this process? Does he expect such a referendum to take place this year? I will conclude with one final, legal issue. The American oil company ConocoPhillips wants a huge compensation, $31 billion, from Venezuela. This is due to nationalisations in the oil industry in 2006. By means of arbitration, which makes a private court rule, a case has been brought. I understand that the judges have been right about ConocoPhillips and that Venezuela must pay out the money. Can the Minister confirm this? Can the Minister also comment on reports that ConocoPhillips deliberately opened a branch in the Netherlands at the time of nationalization? It did so because as a Dutch company it could use arbitration, as the Netherlands has a treaty with Venezuela with such a possibility. How does the Minister judge this practice? Is this an abuse of an investment treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u15	I did not hear Mr Van Bommel speak at all about the consequences of the situation in Venezuela for the Kingdom of the Netherlands. What is the position of the SP when Venezuela collapses unexpectedly, the Venezuelans run wild and a tsunami of Venezuelans comes to Aruba and Curaçao? How should the Kingdom deal with this according to the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u16	We have already talked about this in previous debates, as a result of the remarks made by the VVD that there was a fear that a lot of refugees would be heading in the direction of our islands there. The Foreign Minister contradicted that at the time. Immigration and asylum policy would be strengthened and more effective monitoring would be introduced. The Minister had faith in that and the SP has confidence in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Ten Broeke, because unfortunately he cannot be here this evening. I wish him a lot of strength from this position. On 6 December 2015, there were parliamentary elections in Venezuela, which were convincingly won by the opposition in that country. That was almost impossible, because the Maduro Socialist Government has made a huge mess of it. Venezuela is the country with perhaps the largest oil reserve in the world. Thanks to the socialist regime, there is no food, no electricity and no work for a very large part of Venezuela, the largest neighbour of the Netherlands. It is 30 km from Aruba. On a clear day, you can see it. Every day there are bars coming from Venezuela to Aruba and Curaçao. No one knows how many people they come with or how many people they leave with. Justice Minister Navarro of Curaçao already mentioned this problem. The Minister for Tourism of Aruba, Mr Oduber, said in May 2016 that he was in favour of a visa requirement for visitors from Venezuela. He also said that he supports the Minister of Justice Dowers of Aruba, who stated that tourists from neighbouring Venezuela are partly responsible for an increasing wave of violence. The concern is that many of the so-called visitors are left behind on Aruba and Curaçao. In response to questions from my colleague Han ten Broeke and myself, the Minister wrote that the Aruban government is going to tighten up admission and removal measures. How's this gonna happen? What status can refugees get on Aruba? What's the reception capacity? If I understand correctly the Red Cross spokesperson on Aruba and Curaçao, the Red Cross is now catching the refugees, but there are no real asylum centres. If it's going to be a bigger stream in the future, we need to scale up, according to this spokesperson. Then you have to scale up and think of foreign support. How are Aruba and Curaçao ready for such a shelter? What foreign support is envisaged? At least we know from Curaçao that it is not ready. I refer to Syrian asylum seeker Aktham Abu Fakher. One asylum seeker and the authorities had no clue what to do. Then they put him in jail. What improvements have been made to the asylum and foreign chain in Aruba, but certainly in Curaçao? If only by administrative Curaçao is asked "how safe is our border?', is that richly late. That's gonna get us in real trouble. These will first affect the Caribbean countries of our Kingdom, but also affect the Netherlands. The Kingdom is responsible for poor asylum and detention facilities on the islands. When we say "Kingdom," we all know that the address is Binnenhof The Hague, and therefore the Netherlands. I refer to the Murray vs. the Netherlands judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. According to that ruling, the Netherlands even has a proactive obligation to ensure the proper treatment of people within the Kingdom. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The VVD is in favour of reception in the region, but what is the region of Venezuela? Curaçao and Aruba are close, but the VVD doesn't want that. The fruit bars can make this crossing easy. That is what they do every day. The mayor of Chacao in Venezuela warned Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao last week about a possible large stream of Venezuelan refugees. The Minister's letter denies that there will be a possible mass flow of immigration. Is this mayor of Chacao so wrong? Finally. The concerns of the VVD were already great and have actually only gotten bigger. From my air force background I always cling to the 5 P's-principle: clean planning preventions poor performance. That is certainly the case here. If we wait for the refugees to land on the coasts of Aruba and Curaçao, we are really too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u19	The language spoken by Mr Bosman is generally very appealing to me, but I found him extremely diplomatic today. He had a lot of questions for the Minister. I remember last year's debate with Mr Ten Broeke. He went quite loose, to put it in The Hague terms. I hear Mr Bosman asking a lot of questions. Was he satisfied with the answers that came in yesterday to the questions he asked the Minister together with Mr Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u20	No. My input may be a little more diplomatic than that of Mr Ten Broeke. It is also my text; so I am not reading Mr Ten Broeke's text. My concerns are great. I'm also a spokesperson for kingdom relations. In this capacity, I have been very frequent in this concern. In fact, Mr Ten Broeke and I are working together on this. We see from both positions that things are going wrong. We shall therefore continue to repeat the questions. I am also very interested in the Minister's answers. I'm gonna interrupt him one more time. Maybe that's a little stronger than sending a letter every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u21	The Minister's answers are quite recent. They're yesterday's. Mr Bosman could be right about that. I noticed that the VVD Group focused on visa requirements in its questions. The Minister says that he is not going to set it up; he sees no reason to do so. The VVD calls the whole area on its website a "Caribic route du soleil." The article in question was also written by Mr Bosman. Those are all slightly different lyrics from what I hear now. I'm just surprised. I am very curious to see where the VVD will come out at the end of this debate. Is Mr Bosman satisfied with the answers to his questions written by the Minister in his letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u22	I have repeated a number of questions because I certainly have concerns about them. I'm very curious what the government is doing. The problem with the Kingdom is that we have little to say. That's the problem. If you talk about a visa law, you will have to include Aruba and Curaçao. We cannot impose this unilaterally. Those are constructions. If Mr Knops knows me and my history within the Kingdom, he knows that I would rather see another kingdom. However, we are not in that position, and that is the problem we are dealing with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr Ten Broeke has previously described Venezuela as the North Korea of South America. That's a hell of a characterization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u25	There are very severe sanctions for the regime in North Korea. The situation there should actually be referred to the International Criminal Court. What effect does Mr Bosman have on the fact that Venezuela is the North Korea of South America? Should personal sanctions also be applied here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u26	The special thing is, these people don't have anything. You don't pick feathers from a bald chicken. You can be really tough, like, "Oh, man, we're gonna get some firm sanctions," but then what? I am very curious what sanctions Mr Sjoerdsma would impose. We don't feed them, but they already don't. So it doesn't get much worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u27	Maybe I should clarify it. No hair on my head thinking of making Venezuela's population even more difficult than it already has. That is what Mr Bosman concludes in his own article. There are fathers who can't feed their children. It doesn't get much harrowing. I'm talking, of course, about the upper class. I am talking about Mr Chávez and his associates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u28	Maduro.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u29	I'm sorry, Maduro. I was still in the interrupting debate with Mr Van Bommel. Of course, Maduro and its associates have significant assets. They can travel any way they want. It's not about the people; it's about the leaders. My question to Mr Bosman is therefore whether the VVD is considering personal sanctions in view of Mr Ten Broeke's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u30	I could definitely consider that. I wouldn't have a problem with that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. I was allowed to stay in Venezuela for a few weeks in 1993. Then it was nice to be in that country. It was also a fairly prosperous country, especially by South American standards. Unfortunately, about seven years later, the country went down the road to socialist hell. Sixteen years of socialist rule has skillfully demolished the country, and certainly the economy. It has also become a political mess. There is a huge shortage, wages are no longer worth anything, and all this maladministration has led to an enormous increase in crime; it is a terrible thing. That's why the President of Venezuela declared a state of emergency and ruled by decree. In short, the country has accepted all the features of a dictatorship. The government has indicated that it hopes for an ongoing dialogue with the Venezuelan Government, whether or not through countries in the region. But to what extent does that lead to something? Can the Minister explain what he is getting the expectation that this could lead to anything at all? All I can see is that the government under the direction of Maduro simply doesn't intend to shrink. How can we expect that these consultation structures, on which the Minister has put all his cards, will lead to something? I also don't understand why the cabinet refuses to condemn Maduro's ruling by decree. Rule by decree is typically a matter of regimes where a potentate as a sole ruler does not tolerate any contradiction. Now there were those elections in Venezuela. They brought a glimmer of hope, because the opposition suddenly gained a two-thirds majority. Then she collected enough signatures to put in a referendum to get rid of that socialist Maduro. The PVV warmly welcomes this, but there is still a long way to go. The question is whether it will ever be completed, because sabotage by Maduro and his people is obvious. And in the meantime Venezuela continues to collapse. That crisis situation in Venezuela is also a threat to the Kingdom. Several reports already show that many legal and illegal immigrants from Venezuela cross the border and seek refuge in Aruba and Curaçao. They are therefore already on the territory of the Kingdom. That could get much worse in the total collapse of Venezuela, which, according to many analysts who know it, is close. Aruba and Curaçao are not prepared for it at all. They are also unable to receive a tsunami of Venezuelan luck seekers. My group does not want that either; we do not want those lucky seekers on those islands at all. So we will never be able to agree with the idea that we should be taking them there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u32	With the exception of Mrs Maij, I have heard all the speakers. I have no doubt that they all characterize the situation in Venezuela as disastrous and dramatic. Why do you call the people who flee from there "happiness seekers"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u33	Because they're going to seek their economic happiness elsewhere. The country is poor and those people are poor. They'll probably have nothing to eat. Perhaps this is already partly the case, because shops are being looted. In that sense, there is a state of emergency. If there's a state of emergency, you shouldn't let everyone from there come to our kingdom. Then you must try to contribute to the resolution of the state of emergency in that country itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u34	It is now quite clear that Mr De Roon has a little bit out of control. There's a state of emergency there. I just said kids can't eat anymore. We're out of meds, and that's what kills people. They're not lucky seekers, they're people who want to leave their country out of desperation. Although I can't agree, I can imagine the PVV saying they shouldn't be here, but please don't call them lucky seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u35	I'll call them that, because they're looking for a better economic situation. So they're lucky seekers. Insofar as there is a state of emergency in that country, we should think of emergency aid, but we should not think of taking care of all those people in the Kingdom. The Minister estimates little chance that many Venezuelans will come to the islands. He believes that they will rather seek their salvation in the neighbouring countries and within Venezuela themselves. For some of them this will certainly apply, but Venezuela is large and for many Venezuelans Aruba and Curaçao are the closest and perhaps the most attractive. My group believes that the government should prepare for a worst case scenario. How do we stop the tsunami of Venezuelan migrants when that country collapses? The Minister states that scenarios have been developed and updated. I'd like to know more about that. What does the Minister mean by that? What is his plan for the situation of a total collapse, after which a tsunami will indeed begin? I believe that the government should prepare itself for such an emergency; this simply requires the precautionary principle. I want to know what the Minister's plans are. We also want an immediate visa requirement for Venezuelans. The government still does not feel that way, because it is afraid that legitimate visitors from Venezuela would no longer come to Curaçao and Aruba. We take it for granted that already Venezuelans are legally present, because without a visa being required, they come to the islands and stay there after the allowed period. Then they're illegal there. No one can tell us how many they are. But they're there. That's obvious. That's all taken for granted. I believe that this is irresponsible and I believe that the visa requirement should be introduced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u36	I was just about to moon you to finish, but that's exactly when you did it. A chairman is very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is in a deep economic and political crisis. Colleagues have also said that virtually everything is lacking. The country and the people in the country suffer from extreme scarcity, massive inflation and a wave of criminal violence. This socialist state of salvation is a stone's throw from our Kingdom. For the Netherlands there is therefore every reason to be alert and prepared for what is to come. After all, the consequences of the crisis are already coming our way. Last year we had a debate here with the Foreign Minister. The Chamber crossed swords with the Minister. At that time the Minister was still relaxed in the situation and the Chamber responded with four motions passed. At the moment, the crisis is even worse. How are we gonna handle this? That question is even more on the table than last year. And what has the Cabinet done in the past year? President Maduro now reigns as a dictator. He's declared a state of emergency, he's ruled by decree and he wants to further increase the state's control. The opposition is in the majority after the elections in December, but has little influence, and is gathering signatures for a referendum to dismiss Maduro. Maduro calls this an attempt at coup d'état and warns that parliament will "disappear." According to him, the opposition would work with foreign powers. According to Maduro, the harsh conditions in the country are due to foreign aggression and the lack of food and goods would result from an economic war between companies and the United States. The president is threatening to impound factories and arrest entrepreneurs and he is threatening to speak to the US and Colombia. The Americans would violate Venezuela's airspace by using AWACS devices. Recently, the Venezuelan army held the greatest exercises in their history. In short, it's an explosive cocktail. The crisis is already palpable on the islands. The tension is increasing. The Minister says that the increased patrols of the Coast Guard so far have not shown any indication of an increase in immigration. The Minister estimates that there will be no massive migration flow to the islands. However, coalition partner VVD claims that the number of illegal migrants from Venezuela is increasing and speaks of a "Caribbean route du soleil," which is wide open. Our group is concerned about the crisis and the lack of decisiveness of the cabinet on this issue. We also see a divided coalition. The Chamber made a call a year ago, but both the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence reacted very reluctantly. The four motions have been adopted, but the cabinet has taken a year to indicate what it has done with the motions. Only a day before this debate came a letter containing a lot of analysis, but hardly any measures. My own motion called for reassuring measures regarding the territorial integrity of the ABC Islands. The Minister's response is that during recent official consultations it was agreed to intensify cooperation under the MoU between the Kingdom and Venezuela. But what is this MoU about? Isn't this about cooperation in the area of SAR (Search and Rescue)? That is quite different from territorial integrity. That's not what my motion was about at all. I would like to receive a response from the Foreign Minister. And why has the presence of the Royal Navy in the West been gradually reduced in recent years? Why does the Coast Guard squeak and squeak? Coast Guard cutters are only allowed to sail on one engine to save fuel. The large maintenance of the workship in the West Sr. Ms. Pelikaan is on the road for lack of money. Sr. Ms. Mercuur is still out of commission due to late maintenance. And then there are the additional austerity measures taken by the Minister of Defence. These lead to fewer sailing days for the Navy, which is already poorly deployable. Exercises are cancelled and stocks and spare parts are less quickly replenished. Earlier, Venezuela threatened an invasion when the drug lord Carvajal was arrested on Aruba. The situation is even more explosive now. How much worse does it have to be before the cabinet wakes up and prepares itself adequately? To what extent is the cabinet prepared to carry out the motions that have been adopted seriously? Because that's what it's all about in the end. We've been a year and we just haven't gotten anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr. Chairman. It is remarkable that we are talking about Latin America, a region in the world which is far away and which is receiving little attention from us. That is wrong, because large parts of Latin America share our values and ideas about rights, human rights and democracy. In a search for the fight against exploitation, terror and human rights violations, we can often seek allies across the Atlantic Ocean. I thought it was important to say this because today we are talking about a country in Latin America where democracy and human rights are not doing well. Latin America itself has a number of organisations that are in favour of this, and we must support it. I refer, for example, to the inter-American Human Rights Institute that has observed the elections in Venezuela, which notes that there is a sharp polarisation in Venezuelan society, fueled by years of propaganda by Hugo Chavez and his regime. The PvdA supports the efforts of the EU and the Dutch government to support human rights defenders and political activists who are persecuted for their opinion. Can the Minister state whether he is satisfied with the commitment that is now being made? Or should there be room for additional efforts in view of the deteriorating situation? Since President Maduro lost the parliamentary elections to the opposition in December 2015, the political tension is increasing, because his government does not want to quit. I would like to stress that 'even further', because that tension was already widespread. This has also been discussed in the Organization of American States. There has been talk of sanctions. Can the Minister say more about these sanctions and also about the possible effects of these sanctions on our kingdoms? Then there is the humanitarian situation in Venezuela. It's getting worse and worse. There is a shortage of medicines and food and there is hyperinflation, but President Maduro refuses to recognise this poignant humanitarian situation. In fact, that is also impossible for a country that was number 71 of the Human Development Index in 2015. That's in football terms about halfway to the left row. And yet people are dying of hunger there. Can the Minister indicate how, perhaps in the context of the UN or the EU, the needs of the population can be met? Venezuela is an unstable country where human rights are being violated and the humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate. And that's just a few tens of miles away from the Caribbean part of our kingdom. Other colleagues said it, too. The Minister stated in his letter that there are no additional migratory flows for the time being. We call on the Minister, perhaps in abundance but still necessary, to be vigilant and, in consultation with the other countries of the Kingdom, to ensure proper monitoring of these developments and, where appropriate, for action. Finally. The last UN report on the Latin America region was entitled Recaída de millones de latinoamericanos a la pobreza es evitable con políticas públicas de nueva generalación. Freely translated means that: the decline of millions of Latin Americans in poverty can be avoided with government policies of a new generation. Let us support this movement, that new policy, human rights defenders and democratisation movements in Latin America!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mrs Maij asks this Minister for action. What measures does it intend to take? Her colleague Mr Van Laar was quite enthusiastic about bringing people in. He said: if they come to the islands, they are welcome. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Bosman is probably quoting my colleague, Mr Van Laar, completely out of context. I would like to know very clearly what Mr Van Laar said about this. Mr Bosman himself said that there are tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people coming to the islands. I do not think Mr Van Laar would say about them: welcome. So I would very much like to know the context of that quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u41	First of all, I did not mention any numbers. I said there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u42	But more than two, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u43	We were in that discussion and we said: listen, we have to be careful about that. Mr Van Laar said that these people are welcome on a very simple humanitarian basis. We didn't talk about numbers and we didn't talk about big groups. That was the verdict. I hear Mrs Maij say that there will be action by the cabinet. What kind of actions are these? Are those actions to prevent people from coming? Or actions to better regulate asylum and immigration policies on the islands? Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u44	I think the latter is particularly important, because that has to do with the first thing you say. I think you need to look very clearly at the question when people need support and protection. We at the PvdA always think it is important that people can get that support and protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u45	I find that difficult, because what are you betting on? You can bet on prevention, or the way you're gonna take care of it. The VVD sincerely hopes that we will make as much efforts as possible to prevent this. But if it does happen, we must have the right rules. That is a second point. Does the Labour Party think that we should prevent these people from coming? Do I hear Mrs Maij say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u46	I think I've just been very clear. In Latin America, large groups of people have emerged from poverty over the last 25 to 30 years. The situation in Venezuela is currently an exception. You can see people falling into poverty there. From Europe and from the Netherlands, we must support that country, to see if we can help the people, so that they do not fall further into poverty. Again, a country that is number 71 of the Human Development Index and where people are dying of hunger, is frankly insufferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u47	If I listen carefully to Mrs Maij's input, then I listen to concerns that are widely shared in the Chamber. But I kind of miss the urgency of doing the good stuff right now. This socialist welfare state has caused one great mess in Venezuela, of which the people in the country themselves are the victims. At the same time, war language is being used in the direction of the islands. I am very concerned about that. Last year's debate was also about this. I do not have the urgency of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u48	I'm sorry you missed it. Maybe that's because I don't use your big words. It is quite clear that the situation in Venezuela is going in the wrong direction. It's been that way for a few years. Let us be clear: that people who have come out of poverty came out of subsidies from oil dollars, without any economic growth at the root of it. I think it is very clear that we should try to help the people who live there in poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's one part of the question. It's not about using big words. But neither should we use understatements and say: it is going the wrong way. It's just been a big mess over there for the last few years. I believe that Mr De Roon described this in a very striking way in his speech. If it was just that and if there was only humanitarian need, you could say: we want to help those people and we want to do some things there. But at the same time, there is also a threat from the country. People are fleeing, and there are currents coming in. I am missing the reaction that would suit the Labour Party, an appropriate response in the vein of: what are we going to do to prevent this and what are we going to do to protect the territorial integrity of the islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u50	The latter seems to me to be something we should certainly do. As far as the first is concerned, you say that large flows have started. I cannot see that from the Minister's letter. From what I read in the sections about the currents that have started and about the people who are going to the islands from Venezuela, I cannot see that very large flows have started. I would like to put that question to the Minister through you. For the time being, I believe that this observation is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u51	The colleague of the VVD just said that he would consider personal sanctions. Mrs Maij is asking for sanctions. Is the PvdA in favour of personal sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u52	I should first like to hear from the Minister what sanctions have been proposed by the Organization of American States. Are only economic sanctions or other sanctions? I think it is important to take joint action on this basis. Individual sanctions, from one country, bilaterally, do not seem to me to make much sense in this case. I think it is important to look at what has been drawn up by the Organisation of American States on proposals for sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u53	Do I understand that the position of the PvdA is that if the Organisation of American States decides on a certain set of sanctions, the PvdA believes that the European Union should be able to take effective action?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u54	That we should at least consider it, yes. I always want to see what it is before I say yes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u55	In general, that is very sensible. The Minister has requested a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the House of Representatives for their contribution in the first term. It is a good thing that the Chamber is debating the situation in Venezuela today. I sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday about the current situation. I also sent the Chamber yesterday answers to questions from Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Bosman on the appeal by an Aruban minister to introduce a visa requirement for Venezuelans, and to questions from the aforementioned members about the message about the presence of an Aruban delegation in Caracas for the so-called Citgodeal. Let me begin by saying that I share the feelings of the Chamber about the situation in Venezuela. It's like it can't get any worse. In recent years, the socio-economic situation and the security situation in Venezuela have deteriorated considerably. The security situation was already very bad. The economic situation was more or less stable because of oil prices. They have fallen enormously, so the weakness of Venezuela's socio-economic policy has also been clearly highlighted. The Venezuelan economy is heavily dependent on oil revenues. That makes the country very vulnerable. In addition, Venezuela sells a substantial part of its oil below market price to countries such as China, Cuba and countries in the Caribbean. The fall in oil prices has exposed the already existing structural problems of the Venezuelan economy, such as the dismantling of domestic production and the substantial subsidising of basic products. Investment in solutions to structural socio-economic problems has not been given sufficient priority. You can now see the serious consequences of this. They already existed in the field of security in the country. It has always been bad in the past period, but has recently deteriorated even further. Prices of food, medicine and other basic necessities have risen considerably and a large proportion of the Venezuelan population is suffering from structural shortages. I'd like to get back to that. The Chamber asked me in particular about the political situation after the elections. That political crisis has at least partly its roots in the economic malaise. Early 2014 students, later followed by some opposition parties, went out to protest against scarcity and insecurity. This eventually led to the dramatic number of 43 dead and hundreds wounded. I therefore share your Chamber's view of how serious the situation is. The dissatisfaction of the population was subsequently expressed in the parliamentary elections of December 2015. I think this was an important moment in which the electorate gave a clear signal to those in power. We are dealing with a democratically elected government, let there be no misunderstanding about it, whether we like it or not. At the same time, these local elections have achieved a clear victory of the opposition, with a two-thirds majority, 112 out of 167 seats. The elections went quietly, without incidents of violence and with a high turnout rate. That was a good thing. Initially, President Maduro also acknowledged defeat, but after the initial acceptance of the results, the stalemate between legislative and executive powers has only deepened. We are really dealing with, you might say, a type of constitutional crisis in Venezuela. President Maduro took numerous steps to consolidate his position and restrict the power of parliament in the run-up to the new parliament on 5 January. You know that Parliament responded to this by announcing that it would focus on two priorities. The first was the recall referendum to issue new elections. You know this is possible in Venezuela. That has already happened once before. The second was the amnesty law for political prisoners. The first step towards the referendum was the handover by the electoral council of the signatures lists needed to initiate the process. Then you see there's a new phase in it. President Maduro commented that the referendum would no longer take place in 2016. In response, dissatisfaction among the population and also the number of demonstrations continues to increase. The timing of everything is very important. If the referendum takes place after 10 January 2017, there will be no new presidential elections, but Maduro will be replaced by the Vice President in a negative result for him. In the meantime, the President declared the general economic emergency in May. This seems to be an attempt to reduce support for the referendum. This is in practice a kind of extension of the economic state of emergency already proclaimed by decree in January 2016, but there are also special measures that allow for the restoration of public order. That is worrying and we as an international community must keep a close eye on it. Human rights organisations have rightly expressed concerns about the impact on civil liberties and human rights. The Dutch Government has pursued a very active policy because of its view on human rights and also because it is a neighbouring country of the Netherlands. I do not recognize myself in the image of some spokesmen as if that were not the case. The EU's foreign ministers also discussed this issue on the initiative of the Netherlands. This was, by the way, an initiative of Spain. The Netherlands has also spoken about the political situation in Venezuela and, of course, about human rights. I'll come back to that later. During our Presidency, a number of statements were adopted by the High Representative concerning the human rights situation and the situation of political prisoners. I traveled to the region myself. I have spoken with Venezuela's Foreign Minister, with the Secretary-General of the OAS and with other countries in the region. We are concerned not only about the political situation, but also about the human rights situation. I personally raised the human rights situation with Minister Delcy Rodríguez of Foreign Affairs. I said that, of course, the deterioration of this situation has the Dutch Government's disapproval. I am thinking of arresting people, house arrest and sometimes much more serious cases. I also discussed this with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and with the Secretary-General of the OAS, Almagro. We want to be as active as possible, not only in a European context with Spain and other countries, but also on other fronts. We are not a member of the OAS, but we are very much involved in the Organization of American States because part of our Kingdom is in the Caribbean, a short distance from Venezuela. As a result, the Netherlands has a strong position in a situation that is vulnerable to everyone. We are all concerned about the unstable situation in Venezuela. The absolute power of the President and his government, and the almost complete co-optation of constitutionally independent institutions such as the Supreme Court and the National Ombudsman, have further undermined the protection and safeguarding of political and freedom rights in Venezuela. We have said this repeatedly, also publicly. According to human rights organisations, there is a continuation and an increase in intimidation of especially human rights defenders, media censorship, violation of the freedom of the press and persecution of political opponents. There are currently 96 political prisoners, including the opposition leader Leopoldo López and democratically elected mayors Antonio Ledezma and Daniel Ceballos. I also raised these issues directly with Venezuela's Foreign Minister and expressed my concerns about them. The opinion of Venezuela's foreign minister is that these prisoners are well looked after. I have said that it is not only for this reason that this would be the least of them, but also for the principle of what we call political prisoners. We are very active in this area with our partners in the European Union. It is also about monitoring the human rights situation, including the active presence in the various legal cases. The Netherlands is often one of the few observers, together with other countries and where possible the European Union. From a political and human rights perspective, our embassy in Caracas is handling these lawsuits. It is important that we pay active political attention to this, in particular to the case of opposition leader Leopoldo López. This is one of the things the Chamber has asked for earlier in this debate. This is an important political signal that the Netherlands and the European Union attach importance to independent justice and a fair trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u57	I have a question about Leopoldo López, about Ledezma, about the other opposition leaders and about the students imprisoned by the Venezuelan regime. The minister just described that the Dutch embassy is present at lawsuits. The explicit request in the adopted motion is to plead for release. The minister dissuaded the motion at the time, because he didn't think it was wise. The Chamber did want to go through with it, given what preceded the arrests. Did the minister pick this up? Has he argued for this and what was the response of the Venezuelan Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u58	I have just said that Venezuela's Foreign Minister believes that these people have broken the law and will not go to liberation. The most important thing is that at these times, both in the OAS and in the EU, as well as through direct personal contacts, we are all concerned at the highest level by the Venezuelan authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u59	That is extremely important and it is becoming increasingly important. I'm glad the Minister brought this up. I'm not too happy with the answer from the Venezuelan side. In fact, I'm extremely dissatisfied with it. Before I move on to concrete steps, which I am sure the Minister will come up with later, I ask why we are not expressing ourselves more publicly. It's a neighbor. It's Belgium, but on the other side of the ocean. It's the biggest neighbor. Then why don't we hear from this cabinet at least one sharp, public condemnation? This should also be heard in the media there, so that the people of Venezuela know that they are not alone. The other media statements I will not mention them all; they were not of the level of this minister, but of them were not critical enough. I'll say it very euphemistically. Why do we not hear a more explicit and public statement about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u60	I really disagree with Mr Sjoerdsma. I have just shown how this government has been very active, including the public, in this matter over the past period. I think more than any government in the European Union, apart from Spain, perhaps. I haven't spoken out in public for nothing. I'm very active in that. We are also talking to the Organization of American States for the benefit of this country, which is on another continent. We are also actively working in the European Union to support the dialogue in which former Prime Minister Zapatero is involved. We are also sending observers to the various trials, to show that we stand for human rights defenders. So I don't recognize the image. I don't think it's right either. It is precisely because it is a neighbouring country that it is important to remain in dialogue. That's important. I would also like to have those talks with the Venezuelan Foreign Minister. It is a neighbouring country with which I want to maintain relations. This has given us the opportunity to express our opinion on a number of points which we consider to be very bad, both in terms of the political situation, the economic situation and the human rights situation. I do that in public here, too. The analysis that I have just given Mr Sjoerdsma has heard was a political contribution to what we are very concerned about. I repeat that here again publicly in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u61	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u62	That is an important point. Moreover, since 2015, representatives of the EU and of EU Member States have in almost all cases been refused access to the courtroom. That's a bad thing. That's exactly what I'm saying here. We continue to draw attention to this through the Universal Periodic Review and the EU reports on the human rights situation, alongside all the other instruments I have just mentioned. We are also active in this area with Mrs Mogherini. Our Embassy in Caracas regularly consults with human rights organisations on the ground and with human rights defenders, precisely to support them in the areas that have just been mentioned. I would like to say a few words about the dialogue. The situation is very complex and rightly described as a major risk, especially for the Venezuelan people themselves. This situation has been going on for quite some time, but it has become sharper. That has to do with all kinds of things, but it might take too much to go into in detail. It has to do with the way in which the government expresses itself and with the way in which the opposition is sometimes divided. It's very difficult to get everything under one flag. The only thing that is actually possible right now is to put a lot of pressure on it. After all, there is also a time limit, as I said earlier. We need to keep an eye on the democratic constitutional process, for example when it comes to revocation. We must ensure that the dialogue that is being conducted internationally is effective. There are actually two possibilities for that. Under the flag of the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), attempts are currently being made to mediate between the opposition and the government. That is difficult, I say in all honesty. That takes time, by the way, because there is a total lack of confidence on both sides. The three former Heads of Government, including Spanish former Prime Minister Zapatero, are trying to facilitate dialogue between the government and the opposition. That takes place in Santo Domingo. That's why I traveled there. I spoke with the government there about how this dialogue could be strengthened. The United States Minister for Foreign Affairs also attended that meeting. Therein was visible how strong contrasts can be on that continent. They're very politicized. There are still very old images related to North America and South America. That is why the whole issue of sanctions lands there in a very different way than, for example, in Europe. We have been reminded of this last week when we spoke to the foreign ministers of the European Union, and we are now focusing on the dialogue as the only possible option, but we are doing so with great care. It's not a dialogue we just support with a little money or something. We support that policy through diplomacy in the region. I have also spoken with a number of colleagues from these regions to ensure that both pressure is increased and dialogue is given a chance. This is actually the only way to make progress in this situation and to mitigate as much as possible some of the consequences outlined tonight. I note that the countries in that region are the neighbouring countries, which, of course, are the first to be affected, and that they are also in the right direction to move forward. There is also the way of the Organization of American States. It has taken the path of calling in an article of its charter. I could make a comparison, but the risk is that I will do it with something that is not in all respects the same as in Europe. By calling in that article you can call a particular Member State a risk and make a judgment. That opinion is now being followed by the Organization of American States. There is also a certain path that could lead to sanctions at some point. People think that's risky, and they say that this is the way to go. This is also happening with the agreement of the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u63	I'm glad it's a good dialogue. However, dialogue requires an equal basis: this is our starting point and we recognise and recognise each other's value. However, I read that Mr Rodríguez states that Venezuela is going through difficult times but denies that there is a humanitarian crisis. To what extent are you a conversationalist? To what extent do you understand what the other person wants? As a minister, I think you really miss what's going on in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u64	The problem with this dialogue is not so much the government but the opposition. It is precisely the opposition that is a little away from the dialogue. He's getting back in on it. The issue of humanitarian aid is completely different. You are absolutely right that if there is great scarcity, there is no denying that there is a humanitarian emergency. I'm gonna distance myself from that, too. Soon I will come to the question of how this can be dealt with. This humanitarian need, of course, has to do with the fact that there is an economic crisis and that there is an uneven distribution in the country. Strikes are also taking place and imports are being made more difficult. Loans to Venezuela are drying up, making it increasingly difficult to obtain medicines and food. Denying it does not contribute to a dialogue, I agree with you directly. But strangely enough, there is not the problem with the people who conduct the dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u65	I'm glad to hear that. The rebels in Venezuela, the people in defense, have nothing to eat. That's the problem. People argue against a government that says I do what I want and you have a problem, but that's your problem. The same government denies that there is a humanitarian crisis. So he doesn't recognize the cause of the rebellion. You can't sit at the table with each other, can you? That's so far apart!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u66	However, that is the only possibility in conflict situations. It's not impossible. There is no solution but a political solution. The situation in Venezuela is not translated into: one is good and the other is bad. We're dealing with a country with deep problems. The Netherlands is very alert to this. We're following a policy I just defended. At the same time, it is always difficult to assess the situation in other countries. We are also dealing with opposition parties who are also using instruments that are not in accordance with democratic principles. Fortunately, there is also a civil society of human rights defenders. It's a small, unfortunately marginalized group. We try to give that space through a combination of pressure and dialogue. I say to Mr Bosman: I understand your frustration, I do, but my fear is that there is unfortunately no clear-cut solution in Venezuela. That solution must be constitutional. The only thing you can get back to is the fact that, despite what is happening in the field of human rights and justice, the chance of a fairer society that functions constitutionally well is still being preserved, even though it is still smaller. That was also the case under Chávez and the last parliamentary elections. All dialogue is therefore aimed at maintaining it. That is the only chance I see right now, precisely to prevent us from ending up in scenarios, which I cannot rule out, where things are getting worse. I come to a number of points relating to dialogue and the humanitarian situation. I would also like to mention the consequences for the region, including the parts of the Kingdom for which we are jointly responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u67	We're all gonna wrap that up before 8:00. Perhaps there is a time limit for the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u68	I only interpret this as an attempt by the President to tell me that I need to go a little faster. Let me say a few words about humanitarian aid. Besides, I don't do that because it's irrelevant. There are a number of organisations working in Venezuela, such as Charitas and Fé e Alegria. The Venezuelan Red Cross supported by ICRC focuses on primary health care. MSF Spain has also started to use aid programmes. It is true that, in accordance with international agreements, a request for aid from Venezuela is a prerequisite for international aid. Venezuela didn't make such a request. In order to be able to enter it as an international organisation or government at all, it must therefore be officially recognised. So, technically, we can't offer that help. That could also be counterproductive. There is also no request for assistance from the regional office in Panama. It is customary that they do so very quickly when there is a humanitarian crisis. Within the framework of the European Union, we have asked the High Representative to identify the needs as soon as possible so that we can come up with an offer to Venezuela, no matter how difficult the situation is now. I am particularly concerned about the scarcity of medicines. There's not enough of everything. Strangely enough, oil prices are now attracted again. So you immediately see another change in the distribution channels. However, Venezuela must recognise that there is a crisis. That's the priority now. As has been said, there are religious organisations working, but I would like to focus primarily on the role of international organisations and support for the Red Cross. I come to the implications for the region. There are, of course, serious concerns in the region about developments in Venezuela. We also work with other countries in the region. We are in this ourselves, of course, because of the situation of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin and the municipalities there that are part of the Kingdom. I have just talked about the mediation efforts of UNASUR and the high-level dialogue that is now taking place between the United States and Venezuela. That was last week's OAS break. The Americans are now engaged in a dialogue with Venezuela because they also see the risks to the region. Of course, there's a little pressure there. I am convinced that in this case the solution of our own continent must be found, indirectly through countries such as Brazil and the Caribbean OAS members, who are also very active in this. I have just mentioned a number of examples of this. We are playing into that as much as possible. For a number of Caribbean countries, this has a direct impact, especially for countries that have always been subsidised by Venezuela via Petrocaribe. You can see that the political stance in these different countries is now changing as well. This also makes the Caribbean countries more vulnerable. In addition, there are security policy implications. Our part of the Kingdom has not so much to do with this, but in 2015, for example, the old border dispute with Guyana was lifted. There is a difference between countries as to how this should be resolved. It is therefore important that the International Court of Justice should play a role in this. Most countries do choose to maintain good diplomatic relations. By "good," I do not mean uncritically or without pressure; I mean that it is essential that we also use Venezuela to take care of a number of other things in the region. I am thinking, for example, of the peace process in Colombia. Venezuela has an important role to play there. So you have to make sure it stays there, otherwise we'll have a problem. Of course, the Dutch government is very active in the field of building scenarios. We are. We don't bring them all out. The Chamber also asked us not to. We are almost daily with the various ministries in the Netherlands but also with the islands looking at different scenarios and the question what they could mean. Of course, this is anticipated. As you can imagine, there is a scenario in this context. I shall not go into it in detail, in which the negative trend is continued, which could increase the risk of social unrest and there is a possibility that the political process within Venezuela itself will intervene. There could also be a scenario that means loss of control. In none of these scenarios is a significant improvement in the socio-economic situation to be expected. However, it does make quite a difference which of these scenarios pose risks in terms of population resistance. That is why it is so important that we work together with the region and Europe to tackle this strategy vis-à-vis Venezuela. Next, a comment on the Kingdom. Firstly, I think it is important, also as a Minister of the Kingdom, as a representative of the interests of the Kingdom in the field of external relations, that I speak with the Venezuelans, because I consider open communication important, but in the tone and manner for which we ourselves have stuck our necks out. I think this is also the most sensible, given the geographical and political situation in the region. First of all, it is important to know what is going on and therefore to keep your finger on the wrist, in order to be able to properly assess it, not by means of newspaper reports or by means of cases that pay off here and there, which could have consequences for the Kingdom of Venezuela's internal developments. That's not so easy to predict at all. We have to do that, but that is not automatic. For the Dutch Government, the anticipation and proper management of possible migratory flows is obviously an important part, not for the first time. So do we. In the field of security, there has been cooperation between Venezuela and the Kingdom for years. I think that cooperation is important at the moment. The Americans and others also say that we must continue to do so, because this is essential. If we want to keep a good grip on what is happening between Venezuela and the Islands, this cooperation is essential. This cooperation will improve the fight against trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and other cross-border crime. It also promotes the way in which we get entrances and can build trust, even in difficult situations. For this reason, cooperation is generally stepped up. From the point of view of security policy, in a region that we must take good care of, it is important that we do so. Indeed, we have joint exercises in the framework of Search and Rescue. The latter took place in November 2015. We, including the Minister of Defence, were very pleased with that. Venezuela, as well as the United States, appreciate the role we have in maintaining good control over the sea between the Kingdom and Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u69	The Minister says that we need to develop scenarios and anticipate them. This is a scenario based on the protection of the territorial integrity of the islands. Then it can't be the answer, while the Venezuelans are calling out to be threatened from outside and the Americans are spying on the same Americans whose minister says they're working so well together that we're going to work together Search and Rescue and have the greatest military exercise ever, while the people in the country are dying? Our reaction can't be that we're gonna be working with Search and Rescue. Can the Minister explain exactly what he means by that and what that has to do with protecting territorial integrity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u70	With all due respect, I do not quite understand what Mr Knops means. I just said that we are building scenarios. Mr Knops is the Defence spokesman, so he knows very well how we deal with scenarios. Not everything about the defense of the Kingdom is shared publicly. That seems logical to me; we have our own defence and our own way of ensuring that adequate defence exists in the Kingdom. I have just taken out one element and Mr Knops then asks me if that is all we are doing. No, I come up with a lot of other points, but at least it is important that the Coast Guard of the Kingdom and Venezuela cooperate together, as happens in the framework of Open Eyes. That is a very important point in the work, but certainly not the only one, because of course the coastguard is doing much more, regardless of cooperation with Venezuela. That goes without saying. Mr Knops knows that very well. So he should not give the impression that I say that there is cooperation in the framework of Search and Rescue that this is the solution to our territorial integrity. The Coast Guard is very active with the Ministry of Defence in the field of migration. This concerns extra patrols and the extra alertness on a possible deviant influx. The Coast Guard is heavily involved in monitoring movements of ships and bars, thank goodness. Deviations from the normal pattern come to our attention. We check ships at sea on a sample basis. I can go a long way with this list. But it would be a caricature to say here that there is a naive government going on that does not see that there is a risk there. We are, of course, constantly working on this. However, I am pleased to do so on the basis of facts and an integrated strategy. Coastguard cooperation is a component that the Minister of Defence and myself consider important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u71	This was a very long run. Maybe my interruption was a little early, but then I'll come back. I refer to the letter we received from the Minister. It literally states that in response to the Knops/Ten Broeke motion, which dealt with territorial integrity, there is cooperation with the Coast Guard in the field of Search and Rescue. That is not a caricature, although that is actually a caricature, but I did not make it, the Minister himself put it on paper. The Minister doesn't have to work out these scenarios here and publicly. That's not what I'm talking about. But if the answer to this motion is that we are going to work together in the field of Search and Rescue, then that motion has simply not been carried out seriously, while the Minister says he did. I am fighting that on the basis of this answer and hope that the Minister will give a different response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u72	Of course, because I'm just getting started. In any case, the element of the Coast Guard is an important point for us. I insist that this should not be underestimated. You know how important coastguard and coastguard cooperation are, including in the defence of the interests of the Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. I mention a number of things that have to do with developments, monitoring, spillover effects and so on. I have been asked to develop scenarios in the areas of security, migration and tourism, to insist on monitoring illegal migration and, if necessary, to deploy the Coast Guard. I sent a letter yesterday to deal with these motions. That letter outlines the situation in Venezuela and the way in which the countries within the Kingdom deal with the consequences of that situation, in particular with migration issues. Today, like last week, I spoke again about the spillover with the prime ministers of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Of course, this monitoring takes place almost daily. The potential spillover effects of developments in Venezuela on the countries of the Kingdom have been given full attention. I don't follow them in isolation. In addition to myself, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, the governments of the Caribbean Kingdom countries, the countries themselves, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of V and J have their own roles and responsibilities. In the event of a crisis, the countries of Curaçao and Aruba are, of course, primarily responsible for the reception of potential migrants from Venezuela. Mr Bosman has just pointed that out. Of course, the Netherlands is responsible for the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands, in this case Bonaire. However, there is also, of course, a joint responsibility for foreign policy and support. I just mentioned the element of defence in that context. We may differ on the assessment, but I think that has very little to do with naivety or realism. We make scenarios based on expectations, with different risks. They shall be established at the highest level. The assessment of all the people I have just mentioned is still that if the situation in Venezuela were to deteriorate significantly, there would not be a massive flow of migration as we know it in Europe. This has to do with the fact that Venezuelans have been researched to do this, and that they will withdraw at home, go to other places in the country, or leave by land towards neighbouring countries such as Colombia and Guyana. However, there is a possibility of a migration flow. We need to be prepared for that. Should the situation arise that one of the Caribbean countries does not have sufficient capacity, there is, of course, an obligation to provide assistance. We are, of course, already pointing that out. The Minister of the Interior can anticipate this and play a coordinating role. I think this is important to say. I would also point out that, of course, we keep a daily record of the numbers we receive from the Coast Guard. We keep track of the entry and exit of Venezuelans and also receive information through the intelligence services and through the police about residence on the islands of possibly illegal Venezuelans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u73	I shall give the floor to Mr Bosman, but only after I have asked the Minister whether it is possible to complete his first term within six or seven minutes, so that we can have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u74	I'm definitely gonna try that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u75	There is still something between the problem in Venezuela and the problem in the islands, namely that the islands must be ready. I read that there is going to be another committee meeting in Curaçao this week on border surveillance, where the question is: how secure is our border? That's what I'm really worried about. If the Statesmen of Curaçao do not already have the answer to that question, how are we going to ensure that this happens? To what extent is Curaçao, but certainly Aruba, able to arrange this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u76	I do not know exactly what is on the agenda and what has been shared with Parliament on the ground, but they are autonomous matters, as you rightly said. Procedures have been set in motion. That's what you asked for. This concerns the registration of people and the possibilities for further tightening up of registration. We have these scenarios. We are working every day with the countries to monitor that and, if possible, prepare it. It happens. Whether that is on the agenda of the States, I am afraid to give an exact answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'll be more specific. Apparently the States, the people's representatives of Curaçao, do not know whether the border is secure. So they have no idea what's going on. It is said here that it is all arranged, because protocols are being made, but that is not the case. If we assume in the Netherlands that it is settled, while the States of Curaçao do not know if the border is secure, then I say that something is going wrong in the Kingdom and that something is wrong in communication. Then these things are not clearly and clearly established. That is my question, but not so much whether it is on the agenda. There is a legitimate demand from the States of Curaçao across the border. Apparently, we don't know that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u78	I see you have a newspaper article there, but I'm not sure who's saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u79	Mr Rosaria of PAIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u80	Well, okay, there's some stuff in the paper. I am concerned that the Dutch Government, in cooperation with the authorities of the islands, is working in the way it does. It is also a matter of trust at some point. I have tried to indicate how the ministries in the Netherlands work together. We do Search and Rescue. We register and try to get a finger behind it. We make estimates of how we deal with asylum elements. It is well known that there are risks there, because that can also have an astringent effect. I can tell you exactly what happens to the measures taken by the countries themselves in the case of the influx of Venezuelans. That has to do with the entry into the airport and the removals. I see now that the number of people coming from Venezuela is falling rather than more. That doesn't change the fact that we're watching these scenarios very closely. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u81	The essence is that everyone knows what is going on, and especially the members of the States of Curaçao. That shouldn't be a white stain. The same article states that nine illegal Venezuelans have ended up on the beach within two days. Then the problems are big. The State Member Rosaria, who is Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is concerned about the external border. I think the Netherlands should have a good talk with Curaçao about this. If there's a promise that it's all settled, then I think there's something wrong. I sincerely hope that we will all make sure that the matter is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u82	I agree with Mr Bosman. A lot of time is invested in that too. Let me give you an example of what he was talking about. The Coast Guard is closely involved in monitoring the movements of those ships, the barges, which I have also talked to Mr Ten Broeke about. It is important that deviations from the normal pattern are reported directly to the local authorities. There's a deal about that. The Coast Guard now controls the ships at sea on a random basis. Upon entry, the customs and immigration authorities shall check the goods and personal data of all persons in the vessels. The quays are well guarded. I can mention many more appointments, because they are there. Coast Guard says it's hard to walk in illegally right now. According to the Coast Guard figures, 16 illegal immigrants were arrested between January and April 2016. That's by the standard image. In the approximately six months between August 2015 and February 2016, around 300 bars arrived in Aruba, 200 on Curaçao and 60 on Bonaire. After unloading 90% of them leave on the same day. That's a number of numbers. Of course, we are working every day to improve, strengthen and tighten up the agreements, but that shows that something really is happening. It is not like 'the islands are lying there, that is not looked at properly, no agreements have been made and there is no anticipation'. I hope I can convince the Chamber. I have just given a number of examples of what is now the standard image. Of course, many more assessments are possible in the light of possible scenarios in Venezuela. When entering the airport, Venezuelan passengers must have sufficient means of subsistence for the period of their stay. They must also have a return ticket and tell them where they are staying. They must also provide the correct information on entry and department. If they do not meet the criteria, they will be put on the plane that flies back to Venezuela. About removals, agreements have been made with the airlines. Pending their flight they are kept at the airport in foreign detention. They are also not allowed to leave the transit space. In addition to the control at the airport there is a check by the immigration and customs services in the ports. Curaçao has taken measures for the bars, which it was about the last time. Moreover, the Member States have also held the debate on this subject, as we are doing now. I think that was three weeks ago. The barges can only enter at regular intervals. There are other police patrols along the coast. The Coast Guard is deployed to check for illegal migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u83	But I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u84	I'm trying to convince the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u85	Yes, I know, but I have a slightly different task, namely to ensure that another debate can take place. There is also an interruption waiting for you, and there will be a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u86	I understand. Fine. Then I shall close this point. There is constant cooperation, both inter-departmental and defence, the coastguard and the authorities on the ground, which is constantly being refined. That is precisely because of the risks in the region. I have tried to adjudicate that with a number of measures. This is also happening with vigilance, and Mr Bosman and Mr Knops rightly wrote about it in order to ensure that we are fully prepared for any risks, but of course you can never rule out everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u87	I'm gonna go over the risk assessment anyway. The minister says that even in a severely deteriorating situation in Venezuela, it is already really very bad there that Venezuelans do not expect to flee to the ABC islands. I wonder what the Minister is basing that on. He says they're probably going to Colombia, but the border with Colombia is tight. So that's not where they're going. I don't think they're going to Guyana either, because the border dispute there has been quite a stir in recent times. I would therefore like to ask the Minister on the basis of which he thinks we should not expect Venezuelans to flee to the ABC islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u88	I didn't say that. I gave an analysis of the situation. That is what Mr Sjoerdsma rightly calls very bad already. I've told you what the patterns are now. There is no significant-scale flight in the direction of the islands. Of course, nothing can be excluded, but that is the analysis we are making. Again, there are of course also worst case scenarios. I have just said what preparations have been made for this. However, I cannot say that we suddenly have the impression that all Venezuelans will flee to those stamps there above Venezuela. That's not likely. However, we are alert to the situation that is already happening, as things are going so badly in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u89	Well, that raises a question. Let's take the worst case scenario. Let's say there's going to be significant numbers. Mr Bosman is clear. He says, as far as I'm concerned, no care in the region. That is a bit contrary to the VVD position on refugees in general, but in this respect there is no reception in the region. How does the Minister feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u90	That's easy for me to say. It is, of course, impossible for Aruba and Curaçao, small islands, to absorb large quantities of refugees. Physically and territorially, that's almost impossible. That's one of the parts of the scenarios. We're thinking about how we could do that. But you can't imagine that large numbers of people can be taken in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u91	One very brief question, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u92	I do not have a question, Mr President, but a comment. I have been accused of not being in favour of shelter in the region. Let me just read out what I said: 'The VVD is in favour of receiving care in the region. But what is the region of Venezuela? Curaçao and Aruba are close, but the VVD doesn't want that."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u93	Does the Minister also have a scenario in which these people can be kept off the islands, in case a flood of Venezuelans hit the islands on boats? Or does his scenarios mean that those people will end up on those islands and then he's gonna do something to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u94	All scenarios are considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u95	I'm sorry, but I think that's a really unsatisfactory answer. My question was whether there is a scenario in which the Kingdom can keep a tidal wave of boats off the islands. I just want a clear answer to that. That could be yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u96	I'll give you the answer I think is right. All scenarios are under consideration. I come to visa policy. This was also discussed last time. A first assessment gives the following picture. Border visas shall be issued within the Kingdom only exceptionally and in special situations, such as on humanitarian grounds and for medical reasons. Permissions issuing border visas shall do so to nationalities in which they see no or low risk, with the aim of generating income or as a limited counter-measure, without damaging their own economic interests with the relatively high threshold of visa requirements. We also talked about the ESTA last time. As indicated earlier in the Chamber, it is expected that applicants will be able to submit their applications online in 2017. This is not the same as an electronic travel authorisation system. Like border visas, an ESTA variant is a means used by powers for nationalities to which they pose a low risk. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the motions that have been tabled before. Through our embassy, we are working on all the points in the motions, such as the active representation of human rights, the public statement, raising this issue in the European Union, in the OAS and in other bodies. So we are actively working on this. The same applies to in-depth consultations. I will, of course, keep the Chamber informed, as I say to Mr Bosman and Mr Knops, on the basis of developments in Venezuela. We take it very seriously. This whole cabinet, together with the islands, is trying to prepare itself for all kinds of eventualities through scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u97	We will proceed quickly with the second term. The speaking time for this second term is 1 minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. That answer does make me a little sad. There's no food in Venezuela and there's no medicine. Venezuela does not give access to humanitarian aid. There are political prisoners in custody. Actually, it's a failing state. The only concrete thing we are putting on the other side, I hear, is that we are going to step up military cooperation with Venezuela. I don't think it should be. That is why I am now putting forward a motion which complements one part: humanitarian aid. I hope the rest of the motions will simply be carried out. Mr Knops may also say something about this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in Venezuela there is a chronic shortage of food and medical supplies;]] [[Whereas the Venezuelan Parliament has called for international aid;]] [[noting that the Venezuelan authorities are holding back and rejecting international humanitarian aid from international and non-governmental organisations;]] [[calls on the Government, together with its united partners and the EU, to promote the admission of international humanitarian aid to the Venezuelan government;]] [[calls on the Government also, in the event that this aid continues to be refused, to call for personal sanctions against those who prevent this aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reflection on Venezuela. I share the view that it is important to work together where possible and in mutual benefit, for example in the area of security, and that this should continue. I have asked two questions which, unfortunately, I have not received an answer to. First, it concerned a question relating to the caselaw. There can be no presence in trials, the Minister said. Is there indeed a question of fair justice, in the view of the Dutch Government? Finally, I had informed you about the issue of the fine that would have been imposed in connection with ConocoPhillips. Is that company evened out? And does that money have to be paid by Venezuela? It's $31 billion. That's a big amount for Venezuela right now. Can the Minister answer that? Can he also comment on the point that this company has chosen the Netherlands as a place, because this would have an impact on arbitration? The Netherlands does have a treaty with Venezuela with that possibility. I have informed you of the possibility that there is an abuse of an investment treaty here. I would like to receive a response to both points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u100	I have a suggestion on that last point as chairman. This could also be answered in writing if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u101	If it's very difficult, it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u102	It's hard to tell, but it sounded kind of precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is still not entirely satisfied with the regulations regarding admission and expulsion on Aruba and Curaçao. There may be legislation and there may be paperwork, but the question is whether it is properly arranged. Are the back door, the finish, the space, the place and the possibilities for people applying for asylum arranged? That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the crisis in Venezuela has already led to the influx of migrants and may lead to an even greater influx;]] [[noting that the Curaçao authorities, for example in the area of asylum legislation and monitoring migration, are not sufficiently prepared for the arrival of larger numbers of migrants;]] [[noting that the importance of the adoption of preparatory measures is underlined by the Dutch Government;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Curaçao authorities to strengthen both the admission and screening of Venezuelans and asylum legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u104	We think it is important that the matter is well settled. Text is willing, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Let's make sure these things are well arranged. I believe that the governments of Aruba and Curaçao are working hard. But if there are still concerns from the States, we need more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that Mr Maduro must leave the country in order to improve the situation in Venezuela. The government is committed to ensuring that all kinds of diplomatic channels, pressure and consultation take place. That must be done before 10 January next year. However, the chances of that happening are not so great. You can't get rid of a dictator with consultation as a rule. History has shown that enough. The successor of Gutierrez after 10 January is Mr Istúriz, an old servant from the route of Chávez and Maduro. We really don't have to expect any improvements from him. In the PVV's view, that means that the doomsday scenario of Venezuela's total collapse is and remains a reality. How is the Netherlands prepared for this? We're not getting any insight into that. However, I know one thing: the military capabilities we currently have on the islands are absolutely insufficient to keep a tidal wave of refugees on boats off the islands. So they're gonna come to the islands and apply for political asylum there. And then it bothers you. I already know who's gonna pay for that. Those aren't the islands, or some of them. It will mainly be the taxpayer in the Netherlands. My group does not want that. I recently asked the Secretary of Defense if she had a scenario and if she could indicate the time limit within which she could establish sufficient military capabilities there. She also did not answer those questions and referred to this minister with his scenarios. He doesn't understand it either. I am very disappointed by this situation and I have no confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u106	And your time is up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u107	My time is up. But I am expressing my deep dissatisfaction with this situation. I am going to consider how we, as a parliament, should proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mr. Chairman. Let me say that I am dissatisfied with the answer given by the Foreign Minister. We have received many answers to questions that have not been asked. Many of the questions that have been asked have not been answered. When it comes to scenarios that this minister talks about, the only response is: a reassuring measure is less sailing days, less navy, less presence. He doesn't anticipate the risks that exist at all. That's the statue. I ask the Minister to re-examine page 4 of his own letter where it is explained how he is carrying out the motion. The letter states: a motion to more reassuring measures means more Search and Rescue. I can't make it any more than this is really disappointing. Little has happened in a year, except that many conversations have taken place. The situation on the ground has not improved, but has deteriorated. We should be very concerned about that. I don't have a motion today. I would simply ask the Minister to carry out the motions that were adopted last time as they were intended, and not in the manner that is now indicated in the Minister's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. What is very clear and what the Minister has also indicated is that the political support for finding a solution and improving the situation in Venezuela comes mainly from the region and that we should also give this support to the countries and organisations in the region. The Minister has also made it clear that he is talking about this. He is in conversation with the Organization of American States and other organizations in the region. In Latin America there is a rather solid structure of cooperation between the different countries. I think it is a good thing that we are also using it to take the step that we would very much like to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u110	I'll see if he's got all the motions. There's two of them. And a number of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second-term questions and comments. I would indeed like to ask whether I can answer Mr Van Bommel's question in writing. Then I can do it as accurately as possible. I would also like to say that the Dutch Government is very active in the situation in Venezuela. I do not therefore recognize Mr Knops' caricature. I have just indicated that at the moment there is no other government in Europe that is so active in the situation in Venezuela. I can't send that with a little button, I don't have the political players in Venezuela on a string, just to put it bluntly. My mission is to maximise, where possible with Europe, with colleagues, by influencing the situation there and then to build effective scenarios for the possible repercussions for the islands. I have indicated that this is done very intensively by the Dutch Government. Then Mr Knops can say: they are a few boats and Search and Rescue. I do not take that very seriously as a proper summary of what we are doing. But I also understand that the opposition sometimes needs a caricature in order to put a little bit of important policy aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u112	I understand that the Minister didn't sleep a wink last night and that it made him very touchy, but I'm not making a caricature. I give the answer that this Minister himself sent to the Chamber yesterday. It would be a good thing for the Minister if he took that up in this debate instead of throwing the ball back and saying that I'm making a caricature. I'm not. I'm disappointed in his response to my motion. He doesn't go into that seriously at all, except that he says he's inventing all kinds of scenarios. That's really not enough. That's what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u113	That is, of course, your right. By the way, I can tell you that I slept very well last night and hope to do so again tonight. If you say 'the Dutch government's policy is just to send a few boats and Search and Rescue' I do not believe that this does justice to the efforts made by the Dutch Government. Of course, we will carry out the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u114	Let's get back to the facts. I didn't mention those boats, by the way. I only talked about Search and Rescue; about facts. In my first term, I indicated that there are fewer sailing days, that there are cuts in the coastguard and that there is less effort. How does that relate to the anticipation of scenarios the Minister is talking about? I asked that question, but I just can't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u115	Again, I have answered that question and will do it again. The Coast Guard can operate effectively in that region with the resources it now has, on the basis of the information needed in relation to the flows and boats you are talking about. So the answer is yes, the Coast Guard can do that right now. I think this has been raised here earlier by Minister Hennis. I shall now turn to the motions that have been tabled, first of all to the Sjoerdsma motion on item No. 25 on humanitarian aid to Venezuela. I really shouldn't recommend that motion. Humanitarian aid has always been depoliticised. Not only is the threat of sanctions counterproductive, it is also not in line with what we are doing in the field of humanitarian cooperation. That is always necessary to try to get help on the ground. It is extremely risky to attach political instruments to this. So I would really advise against this motion, although I very much agree to comply with the first part of the motion, namely to argue unanimously with partners in favour of allowing humanitarian aid. Perhaps that will reassure Mr Sjoerdsma. I did that last week, by the way. I also see the humanitarian imperative to plead with the Venezuelan government for the admission of international humanitarian aid, and I would like to do so as much as possible. But I do not think that adopting a motion along the lines of 'if you do not, you will get sanctions' will be very effective in bringing exactly what needs to be done now to bring humanitarian aid to the ground as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u116	The Minister now pretends that the laying of this link is a form of politicisation. The interesting thing, of course, is that his colleague Minister Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, is currently working on legislation to criminalise people abroad who stop humanitarian aid in the Netherlands following a motion from me. I would ask the Minister to reflect on the connection between what his fellow minister is doing and what I propose here. That is exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u117	I repeat that I sympathise with what Mr Sjoerdsma says. I, too, would like to bring that humanitarian aid to the ground. I'm also willing to work hard for that. However, I believe that the method you are looking for, namely that of threat, is ineffective. This is a political assessment that I make on the basis of the experience I have with cooperation in that region. There is no other country that does this either. I don't know how this should work either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u118	Then I conclude that the Minister takes back his words. I think this is important: humanitarian aid is a very precarious subject. It is very important that this is not politicised or militarised. The Minister has just said that my motion does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u119	Let me now turn to the Bosman motion on part No. 26, on pressing for migration and asylum measures in Curaçao. As you know, migration and asylum are autonomous matters of Curaçao. Nevertheless, I am prepared to carry out this motion. I would therefore like to give her a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u120	That means you're leaving the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u121	We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday. A promise has been made about a letter.
