ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Sustainable Energy Storage Act. The only change to the Renewable Energy Storage Act that makes sense as far as PVV is concerned is the abolition of the law. The Storage of Renewable Energy Act subsidises uneconomic forms of energy and thereby frustrates innovation. The account will be deposited with people who are unable to pay their energy bill at this time. That energy bill's high enough as it is. As much as 45% of the energy bill consists of taxes. The Minister is now coming up with a legislative amendment to increase those taxes even further. The Minister for Economic Affairs is setting up an entire sector entirely dependent on government subsidies, and people who turn on their heating in the winter pay the bill. The Sustainable Energy Storage Act will cost Dutch citizens €60 billion, according to the Minister. Since the Minister himself clearly recognizes that this is an absurdly high amount, he says that this is the maximum amount. He expects to spend some 30 billion in the end. That still amounts to around €200 per household per year. This assessment is partly based on a sharp increase in energy prices. However, the expectation in the new National Energy Exploratory (NEV) is that energy prices will fall in the coming years. Yesterday we read in the newspaper that Shell's top lady, one of the largest energy companies in the world, also expects energy to remain cheap for the time being. Is the Minister not reckoning richly by assuming that there will be substantial future energy price increases, which means that he will have to pay less subsidies? If he's wrong, he'll charge future Cabinets and households with a huge bill of 30 billion euros. I'd like a response from the Minister. To what extent have these high energy prices been taken into account in the indicative impact on households? However the energy price develops, the fact is that citizens and businesses pay a heavy bill for the sustainable energy transition. It remains strange that this law is likely to be supported by the entire Chamber, with the exception of the PVV. This windmill tax quadruples over the next four years to around €200 per household per year, including for people with a minimum wage, a benefit or an AOW'. I don't understand. Then we come to the point of transparency. To prevent it from being clear that hardworking Dutch people are coughing up billions of euros in subsidies for energy companies, the Minister is considering placing the storage of renewable energy in the regular energy tax. This is a bit like what we call an 'Ed Nijpeltje' within the PVV; covering up the towering costs of the energy transition, wrongly ignoring objections, and not apologizing if you are rightly pointed out by the Ombudsman. In short, it is a matter of caution to the citizen. The Minister will not be surprised that we are not in favour of this. Transparency is the basis of good policy, as it allows for a substantive discussion of policy. I call on the Minister and my fellow chamber members to at least be honest and transparent about the cost of the energy transition and not to hide the windmill tax in the regular energy tax. Is the Minister prepared to do this? In conclusion, the PVV has been clear and transparent about the transition to renewable energy from the beginning. This transition is unnecessary, ill-thought-out and especially very expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u3	I hear a very angry lady. What I find special is that she is asking for transparency and honesty. According to the international oil industry, the price of oil goes to $100. Then I am very curious how Mrs Klever sees this energy price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u4	Mrs Klever has no opinion on energy prices. I'm looking at the experts. The minister always assumes the National Energy Exploratory. The latest National Energy Exploratory shows that the energy price is expected to fall by 2020 at least. Shell's top lady also says that the energy price will remain low for the time being. The OPEC countries also expect that oil prices will not rise for the time being. Those are the experts. I think it would be wise for the Minister to listen to this and not count himself rich by assuming a very high energy price, which means that he will have to pay less on subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u5	It's two-and-a-half. We see that the price of renewable energy is falling enormously. That's nothing but a good thing. A lower energy price means that people will pay less. That would be very beneficial, especially for the years to come. Or we can see that according to an expert from the international oil industry, the price of oil simply goes back to the $100. Mrs Klever says she does not have an opinion on this. That may be true, but you have to realize it. Then what is it? What does the PVV want? I feel like the PVV doesn't want anything. She's just gonna gamble on the fossil industry, which says the oil price goes to the $100. What does Mrs. Klever do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u6	I am pleased that Mr Bosman has given me so much power that I can say what is going to happen here. The fact is, Mr Bosman, energy prices are low. That would be very good news for citizens, and that would be very good news for the competitiveness of our business. But what does this cabinet do with the support of the VVD? It increases the price of energy by imposing ridiculous energy taxes and using the storage of renewable energy. As a result, we are all going to pay a great deal for our energy and we cannot therefore benefit from a low energy price. That's what the VVD does! I'd like the VVD to be honest about that. Whether that energy price is high or low, the citizen is screwed with this cabinet anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u7	It's clear it's election time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u8	No, we always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u9	In my view, the tender in Borssele has shown that the price per kilowatt hour is going down so that we can keep subsidy money. That money simply goes back to the citizen or we may do other things with it. That's the statue. That Mrs Klever does not want to answer the question of how the PVV sees the future, I understand, because for the PVV the future of the Netherlands can be on an A4'. I understand there's nothing else coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u10	Well, Mr Bosman is bringing in a lot, but I shall confine myself to the energy vision. Mr Bosman certainly knows what the PVV is thinking. We want the market to do its job. The VVD used to want that, but nowadays the VVD wants a centrally guided energy supply. We say let the market do its job. There are still plenty of fossil fuels in the world and technological development is not stopped either. Only, the whole idea of technological development is that you can't predict it. Mr Bosman says that we are left with money at the tender in Borssele. He pretends that we deserve it, but the fact is that there is still EUR 2.3 billion in grants going to Borssele. That still excludes the costs that TenneT makes and continues to charge. TenneT is going to raise its rates again, because the connection costs also have to be paid. So we pay billions for the windmills that the VVD wants so badly. The PVV says let the market do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u11	If we're gonna do all the interruptions in fours, it's gonna be late. It's possible. However, Mr Bosman is being addressed. Go ahead, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u12	Of course, it is completely naive of the PVV to think that power plants are free, because if...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u13	That's not what I'm saying, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u14	No, but they have to be paid, don't they? They also have to be paid for, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u15	They should not be subsidised. That's the whole idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u16	The idea...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u17	Hohohohoho. I said something: hohoho. It's not a mix-up. I absolutely don't like that and I'm not going to. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The idea that there will be a company that will build another power station is also naive. I think we should all note that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u19	The fact that there are companies that still want to invest in energy has prevented the VVD from competing with companies that are heavily subsidised by the VVD. You'd be crazy if you were going to invest. I understand that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u20	I see that Mr Smaling of the SP is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u21	The care that people with a small wallet have to pay a lot, share the PVV and the SP. What I do not think we share is the trivialization of the problem, of why we are doing so. When I hear Mrs Klever, I wonder if the PVV really thinks it's all nonsense: climate change, the climate conference, electric driving, solar panels. Is that all bullshit in the eyes of the PVV, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u22	Yes. This is a huge sector of renewable energy that costs tens of billions of euros in subsidy. The citizens pay the bill. For years they will pay extra €200 per year for their energy, at least according to the best scenario; according to the worst scenario they pay double extra. What's the purpose of that? The Netherlands does not even contribute 0.5% to global CO emissions. Whether or not we believe in the story that CO causes global warming, it doesn't matter, it's what we do and what effect we achieve. If we really want to achieve something, we must close down the coal plants in China and not build up an entire industry in the Netherlands that is dependent on subsidies. In that case, we will not be working handy with citizens' money. Let us be clear: that money belongs to the citizens. They'll have to pay for it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u23	I can see these coal plants in China closing in the coming years or decades, depending on what China is doing after the ratification of the climate agreement. On the one hand, I share Mrs Klever's concerns, but on the other hand, there is an increase in all kinds of activity. We also have a Delta Act. Along the rivers is everything and everything that creates activity and exportable knowledge. This also applies to the companies that will soon be maintaining the wind farms in Den Helder, Vlissingen and all kinds of other coastal cities. Doesn't Mrs. Klever see that side of the coin at all? As far as we're concerned, there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u24	It is true that there is activity, but that is all subsidised activity. Without subsidies, the whole industry does not exist. In the meantime, the people working at a coal power station lose their jobs and we praise ourselves out of the market, causing companies to go bankrupt. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Surely we do not want to build an entire industry here with subsidies and leave another industry, which has no right to exist without a subsidy, out the door? I think we should just let the market do its job. Again, we also have something like technological developments. Twenty years ago, no one had an iPhone, and now no one can do without such equipment. That's how fast it is. Technological developments cannot be predicted, but there are, of course, very good initiatives in the world. I am thinking, for example, of thorium energy and nuclear fusion. There's a lot of things. But at the moment such initiatives cannot compete with an industry that only receives subsidies. That's the whole problem. We must not create a subsidy industry; we must have a proper industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u25	I am very happy that the PVV is doing market thinking. So does the VVD. But does the PVV consider the market to be purely Dutch? Is the energy market a purely Dutch market? It is a bit naive to think that if we do not have wind energy, the coal and gas plants will automatically start to operate. There is, of course, interconnectivity. There is almost free power coming from Germany, England, Denmark or Norway. We all have connections with that. So we are being pushed out of the market without any kind of employment being lost in the Netherlands, as Mr Smaling said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u26	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u27	This market operation is not only Dutch, but also European. How does Mrs. Klever see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u28	I see market forces around the world. CO emissions do not stop at the border, I say to Mr Bosman. He thinks the climate will be 2°C when we plant windmills here. I can help him out of the dream: that's not gonna happen. We contribute only 0.5% to global CO emissions. If we get free energy from Denmark and Germany, that would be fantastic. It's beautiful! Let them subsidise it, we're not going to do it. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u29	You're not gonna get together. I'll give you one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u30	Her answer shows that Mrs Klever has absolutely nothing to do with jobs in the Netherlands. She is okay with free electricity coming from Germany and Norway. Then she must stop being tough and say that it costs jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u31	That's a very strange argument. It is precisely the VVD, the party to the market, that is building up a whole subsidy industry. The VVD completely let the market go. It says: we are going to create a centrally managed energy supply with tens of billions of subsidies. As a result, there are all kinds of companies that have to close their doors, because energy is far too expensive for them and because they still have to pay a lot of taxes on top of their energy bills. Coal plants are closing down. All those thousands of people working at coal power stations are losing their jobs. These are all unsubsidised jobs. Mr Bosman is knocking on his chest: fantastic, instead we are creating subsidised jobs. I find that incomprehensible from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u32	Mr. Chairman. I've only written my speech once. I haven't done that since the First Chamber. The legislative proposal we are discussing could be hammered out, because it concerns the extension by one year of an existing legislative proposal, which is a result of a European directive. Moreover, it concerns securing the previously estimated EUR 678 million in cash. My question is whether legal commitments have already been made for this whole amount. I would like to use this legal process to address a number of other issues relating to energy taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u33	Of course, I am not going to tell you what you can and cannot say, but you are going to keep to the subject tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u34	Don't worry; it's all about the SDE+.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u35	I'm gonna keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u36	I like that. The better you listen, the better it's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u37	But that is what I am doing in view of the question of whether you are sticking to this evening's subject: Room 34497.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u38	Shall we evaluate that in nine minutes and nineteen seconds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u39	Perhaps earlier, but continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u40	My first point. In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister advocates the merging of the energy tax with the storage of renewable energy. This is seen as a simplification option, but my group wonders whether these two are as simple to merge as it seems. The idea behind these two taxes is different. I'd like an explanation. My second point is that the taxation of energy is much higher for small consumers than for the largest consumers. The latter are even below the European average. The differences between the first and fourth disks are now, if I calculated correctly, a factor of 12 for a cubic meter of gas, and more than a factor of 50 for a kilowatt hour of electricity. In our view, there is a risk that people with low incomes and small and medium-sized enterprises with low staff in energy-intensive sectors such as bakeries will at some point be throwing their asses at the crib. And then what do you get? Then they're gonna vote for the PVV. We shouldn't want that. What's the Minister gonna do about this? The increase in the SDE+ in the coming years is leading to amounts that are going to be squeezed into the low-income wallet and small- and medium-sized enterprises with few staff. In 2023, a household pays almost €300, compared to €30 in 2015. The baker will pay more than €1,000, compared to €100 in 2015. The explanatory memorandum states that households and companies both pay 50%. This seems fair, but the emissions of CO are 19% from households and 81% from the economic activities of companies. Furthermore, the essence is precisely the distribution within the household group and within the group of companies. Small consumers get nothing in return for their efforts. So if they buy renewable energy, they actually pay the full pound again. How does the Minister view this development? The SP Group is in favour of the 'polluter pays' and 'pay by consumption' principles. Although that payment according to consumption in itself is well regulated and there is also a duty-free base, in our view the producer is now paying too little. Large companies save too little energy, get free allowances, calculate according to a study by CE Delft sometimes also get the CO tax, have all kinds of exemptions and also use a heavily degressive energy tax rate. CO taxation would counteract this. England introduces it: it's already at about €22 per tonne, which is starting to look like something. France is still considering this. In this way, the polluter pays more and the incentive to save energy is also greater. Does the Minister agree? Rich households benefit more from the SDE+ than poor households. This is not in terms of costs, because the payment according to consumption is well regulated, but it is in terms of access to technologies and the associated tax advantages. Rich households also consume much more energy than poor households through imported goods and services, which have created environmental pressures elsewhere in production. A household with an income of €75,000 consumes about five times as much energy as a household with an income of €15,000. Another point that deserves attention is a PBL report: the 1.4 million highest incomes are 3% to 4% of gas and electricity income, while the 2.6 million low incomes account for 9%. So that's a big difference. How does the Minister see this and how can you get this to be fairer? What is the experience of the current scheme? In itself, it makes sense to have the cheapest technology eligible first. However, if you look at the applications in the autumn of 2016 in a previous letter from the Minister, you will see that five applications for biomass supplement and -mostly 1,200 megawatts can be realized compared to 4,500 applications for sun PVs that can achieve almost 2,500 megawatts. Because of the kilowatt hour price for sun, which is now set to over €0.12, all these proposers are likely to be disappointed, because other techniques have even lower basic amounts. That is not a good thing, because in our view the sun is the driving force for the future. The price goes down further, the return increases and the people especially like it; you are part of it. It is especially the solar energy that brings the revolution, which is needed, to the people. Especially if you roll that out in an entire neighborhood, like in Lombok in Utrecht, and you manage to realize a smart grid via the electric car where your supply and demand are even better matched. This is the future and it must not be hindered by today's rigid system, with three energy companies costing 1.5 billion to carry waste wood across the ocean by means of air-polluting sea-going vessels. Will the Minister not act on this point until he has his 25 petajoules and 6,000 megawatt wind on land? Or is he already inclined to adapt and reward innovation, participation and enthusiasm even more in 2017? How much abuse is being made? I am referring in particular to the early demolition and sale of wind turbines and the placing of new ones with subsidies. How is this maintained? What amounts have been involved in recent years? Does provincial policy have much influence on this? When I look at North Holland with its one pick, two pay, or rather: one place, two demolish, does that create an adverse incentive? I'm going to my conclusions. I'm still pretty close to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u41	You shouldn't provoke; it just went down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u42	To achieve a system change from fossil to sustainable, the government needs to help. An incentive arrangement is a logical route. The design of the SDE+ is also fair, because it is kept as cheap as possible. However, there are some objections. The first objection is that the storage is rising and is very degressive. This is an increasing burden on poorer households and parts of SMEs and it is a problem for large businesses, including the energy giants. There's a limit to this. Where's the line? I see Mrs Klever wants to interrupt; I'm almost through. The second objection is that certain techniques are now standard from other winnings based on the kilowatt hour price. This puts a brake on innovation in the technologies that are now lagging behind, and it puts us at a disadvantage, also internationally. Especially in the design of the smart grid and the matching of supply and demand we can take market. When I'm in Lombok, I think: this is beautiful, this is promising and this is really Dutch. We are people who come up with this sort of thing and who put it into practice. It must be possible to go on like this. I come to my third objection. A 2011 CE Delft study shows that fossil energy end-use is supported annually by 4.6 billion euros of grants and other exemptions. It is another somewhat old study, which we discussed earlier with the Minister. He insists this isn't the case. I do not need to repeat that discussion, but I would like to bring it up here. Because if your fossil energy continues to subsidise endlessly, why do you stimulate the breakthroughs that are going the other way? My final point concerns the question of whether you still need an SDE+ with a CO pricing on goods and services. Doesn't it regulate itself and even more justly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u43	I have a very short question. Is the SP going to vote for this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u44	I can reply to that very briefly: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u45	That is quite special, because then the SP agrees with a huge burden increase for all households, including poor households. Where your colleague moves on care heaven and earth to eliminate his own risk in care because so many people can't afford it, you just agree to a bill that greatly increases the energy bill. For next year it will be an increase of 50% in the ODE, the storage of renewable energy, but by 2020 people will pay €200 extra and by 2023 much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u46	I've got a few points. First of all, I see this as a kind of supplemental law, because 2017 was not included when this programme was made at the beginning of the Rutte I cabinet. As a result, it is necessary to add this year to the law that is already in place. Secondly, there is a European directive which obliges us to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement. You can't like that, but a directive just needs to be translated into national law. Thirdly, I have just raised all my objections to matters which I see coming towards us in the coming years. We probably share those concerns. Even if this cabinet is almost ready, I hope that the Minister will be able to give us a closer look at the future: can we then establish a system in which the burden and appetites are better distributed? That's what I've been talking about all along. Apart from that, I'm not against subsidies. A grant is just a policy measure that a government can and should use to get from A to B. I think that is perfectly logical and I am glad that it is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u47	The message to the SP voters who have trouble getting around, who cannot pay their doctor's bills and therefore do not go to the doctor, is: it is a European directive; we are not against subsidies; that is why you will be paying €200 extra on top of your energy bill for all those windmills, which you will also get in your backyard. That's a nice message from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u48	The difference between our parties is that the PVV scares people. People may already be afraid of things and it's easy to scare them even more. However, you can also be a politician who has the courage to take his constituents by the hand and try to explain why it makes sense to switch from an old to a new system. That the switch is not painless, you should try to explain. With this argument and also when the purchasing power plates are drawn up, once a year, in the treatment of the Tax Plan, I try to ensure that the people we stand for are not unnecessarily affected. That's the SP line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u49	It is funny that in this debate I am accused of scaring people, because I think Mr Smaling and all the other spokesmen are scaring people, because oh, oh, the earth is warming up and that is why we have to spend billions. The PVV is saying: take it easy, it's all very easy, technological development doesn't stop. The PVV's scaring people seems to me to be ignoring the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u50	It would be good if the PVV looked a little further than tomorrow. That's what it comes down to. You can say it's all bullshit, but you can already see that the frequency of heavy rainfall and great drought is rising, not only here but also in other countries. People then migrate to the city and then come this way, which Mrs Klever doesn't want. This also requires measures. You need stability in agriculture in Africa and the Middle East. Then you don't get large refugee flows, because then people can just make a living. The PVV doesn't see that. That's right. That is why we have different parties in Parliament, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u51	Mr. Chairman. The first point that GroenLinks wants to raise is the research into combining storage of renewable energy and energy taxation. That raises questions at GroenLinks. Can the Minister tell us how, after the combination of storage and taxation, there is still an understanding of the cost of and expenditure on renewable energy? Is the citizen or the company still feeling the need to contribute to renewable energy and is it still visible that his money is going to go there? The reserve for renewable energy is still running up and expenditure is lagging behind. We have exchanged extensively with the Minister in several debates how parts of the Chamber would like this money to be secured, especially in the case of a cabinet change. The Minister has not wanted that so far. If that storage and the load are merged, that vision is completely gone. After all, even now the reserve renewable energy is used from time to time as the national ATM. I come to the same point that Mr Smaling also raised: the division between citizens and businesses. Citizens in the Netherlands use about 20% of electricity and companies use 80%. The distribution of costs is generally around the fifty-fifty. GroenLinks doesn't think that's right. This will impose additional penalties on citizens, as well as on smaller SMEs, and will not encourage large companies to use electricity more energy-efficiently. The shares of sun and wind are bigger than what was ever expected, even larger than Greenpeace's scenarios. As a result of this development, wholesale prices are also falling. This mainly benefits companies, especially large consumers. They contribute only a small part to the cost of the energy transition. That is why GroenLinks has tabled an amendment aimed at reducing the burden on citizens slightly and increasing it slightly for large consumers. In view of the input of my colleague from the PVV, I also expect the PVV to support this amendment. This makes electricity cheaper for ordinary citizens. The contribution to the energy transition by large gas consumers is also small, while citizens and small consumers bear the lion's share of the cost. Analogous to what happens with electricity, it also happens with gas. GroenLinks has also tabled an amendment on this point aimed at reducing the rate of storage of renewable energy in gas for small consumers and increasing it slightly for large consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u52	That sounds very nice, but I do have a small question. The aluminum company Zalco went bankrupt. That is one of the great consumers Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about. There is another aluminium company ALDEL that we have saved with great difficulty here. Couldn't afford the power anymore. And there are also big problems with Tata Steel. All these people will be on the streets if we vote in favour of the Green Left amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u53	First of all, it is not true that all these people are on the streets. Secondly, there are changes in the world market. The first two companies mentioned by Mr Vos are aluminium companies. It was once conceived in the Netherlands, after we first discovered nuclear energy and then gas, which would turn the whole of the Netherlands over to nuclear energy. There would be 100 nuclear power stations along the Dutch coast. And what the hell were we supposed to do with that gas? There was then a plan that something useful should be done about it. Then it was invented: we are going to put aluminum melters in the Netherlands. We do not have bauxite in the Netherlands, we do not have incredible amounts of energy left. So this is about the worst place in the world to put aluminum melters. If there is an oversupply of aluminium in a free market, you get a shakedown at some point. Then one of these companies in the Netherlands has to close down. A number of parties in this Chamber have chosen to provide the venture capitalist who has invested in ALDEL with huge amounts of money by shifting 80 million a year in that direction. My group did not think that was sensible. The people who work at these companies are highly skilled. For them, there's some real embellishments elsewhere. We have said: make such a plan. We belonged to a small minority. Mr Vos will see that these companies will soon disappear from the Netherlands. After all, there is still an oversupply on the aluminium market. I assume the chairman does not want me to deal with the case of Tata Steel in the same extensive manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u54	You've felt very good about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u55	It's good, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u56	I could have told you this, because it was, of course, Prime Minister Den Uyl who set up energy-intensive politics in the Netherlands at the time and thereby created many jobs. I am not going to let those jobs disappear by supporting Mrs Van Tongeren's amendment that I think is a bit elitist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u57	Okay, we now have different types of amendments, and there is also an amendment that is elitist. This is not an elitist amendment, this is a visionary amendment that responds to a transition to a sustainable economy. I can see from the Minister's face that even he thinks this is a very justified remark. The Minister is concerned about how we can achieve a green economy. That means you have to measure what jobs there are in the green economy. In addition, I regularly find the PvdA at my side. So it's not like all jobs are necessarily the jobs of the future. If it is not this year, it will be next year, but you will have to disappoint those who work there. Just like the president elect Trump in America, who says he's going to give the people in the coal industry their jobs back, because it's so sad when they lose them. Eventually, these people will lose those jobs, so the fair story is: in all the countries of the world, we will have to move towards a sustainable green economy. This includes growth in green jobs. That's what my party stands for. What we are aiming at with this amendment is a very small push towards: the polluter pays and the greener deserves. That is where the jobs must be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u58	We're going back to setting the rates. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u59	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u60	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u61	Well, I think so. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u62	Okay, I'll move on. I ask the Minister: is SDE+ looking at three transitions that are needed at the same time as regards GroenLinks? These are: an energy transition, an infrastructure transition and a tax transition. If you keep leaning on the old infrastructure, the coal power stations, the system can revert to the use of coal once the subsidy is off. Once you have solar panels, insulation, geothermal and tidal power stations, you can't fall back on fossil. Can the Minister indicate the link between the way in which funds are disposed of in the SDE+ and the way in which the infrastructure transition helps? This is again analogous to the good points made by the spokesperson of the SP, who just spoke before me. Then I come to the super-statutory demands that are being made. The SDE+ is intended to achieve an acceleration in the amount of wind on land. Some provinces are now making super-legal demands. How does the Minister view this? How obstructive are they? At what point is the Minister prepared to say anything about that? I am talking about municipalities in those provinces that really want wind on land, where the local people agree and the companies want it. Then the provinces set up such an obstructive super-statutory demand. Normally the VVD is very much of "no headlines on policy," but unfortunately nothing has been done about it in this case. Then I come to the future of the SDE+. The Plan Bureau for the Environment states that 85% of CO emissions are related to the use of fossil energy. The transition to renewable energy is therefore important to reduce CO emissions. As far as my group is concerned, this requires a long-term vision. This Minister has shown that he is steadfast and able to give certainty to the sector. He also explains very often that that certainty must be there. What long-term targets does this Minister for Renewable Energy pursue after 2030? Will the SDE+ continue beyond 2020? Or do we not get that into his energy agenda until the end of the year? Maybe he can lift a tip from the veil already. With regard to the renewable energy reserve, what about fund formation? Is this not the best way to ensure that the tax paid by people in the form of a storage of renewable energy is actually used for that purpose? Then I'll come to the salad. The Minister regularly says that business needs long-term security. The solar energy industry is such a sector, a green growth engine of the future, where you see it in countries like Germany, where employment is increasing. There is also a lot of non-elitist employment for non-high-skilled workers, in the installation industry and in maintenance. It is really something in which the Netherlands could become big. However, the industry needs long-term certainty as to how it is doing with the netting. When can the Court look forward to the evaluation and any proposal for revision? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that you should be providing long-term security and not always for a number of years? The construction sector is very keen to do so, because a growing number of companies are working on concepts for solar energy-efficient homes. The business case hangs on the question of whether there's anything left of salading. If so, in what form? In what form is the SDE+ still available for more large-scale housing? Then I come to the external costs of conventional energy sources. The Minister states that the external costs of conventional energy sources are taken into account through the CO2 emissions trading system. Can he indicate whether there is also the cost of environmental and health damage, for example as a result of air pollution caused by conventional energy sources? My group has not been able to recover these costs from the CO2 emissions trading system. Is government policy or a government position that CO2 is the only external cost item of conventional energy sources? My group is thinking of the enormous damage to health and the natural damage caused by coal mining. Then there is the CO2 emissions for shipping all these coals; the dirtiest fuel. Then there is a whole set of factors such as the fact that the Eemshaven has to be taken into account at Community cost, with the sole aim of allowing coal ships to enter the port. A lot of these costs are borne by the community. We have not been able to find that these costs are included in the CO2 emissions trading system. On the points I have made, I have tabled a number of amendments. I sincerely hope that, step by step, we will have an even better law on storage of renewable energy. In any case, this country is going into the century of clean energy. This minister certainly finds wind at sea and wind on land GroenLinks always on his side. We hope that this can also be the case with a fair and well-functioning Sustainable Energy Storage Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u63	Mrs. Klever, I would have kept you waiting because otherwise it would have been such a hassle. Now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u64	I didn't believe my ears, but Mrs Van Tongeren said about Trump and about all the jobs he's going to realize, that those jobs are going to be lost again in the future. Is it true I heard that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u65	Yes. It has been promised that all former miners will get their jobs back in the coal mines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u66	It is very special that GroenLinks knows better than the Americans themselves and the stock exchanges worldwide. All grants have increased because they all expect economic growth to create additional jobs. And Mrs Van Tongeren is standing here saying that all these jobs will be lost again. I find that rather arrogant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u67	The work of coal miners is in any case finite. You could stretch it for another year or two, but we're going to go to an economy based on clean energy anyway. This may take a short while or it may take a bit longer, because the Netherlands is at the bottom of the European lists. However, it will happen. Honest politics is telling people honestly that that change is coming. People tell us that we in Limburg can open the coal mines again, is wrong. That's telling people a story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u68	I suggest we...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u69	Who tells people here in Limburg...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u70	Hello, I'm talking to you! I suggest that we do not elaborate on the forecasts for the American economy here. If you have one more specific question, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u71	That's good. But who is telling the people in Limburg that the coal mines are opening again? I think that's Mrs Van Tongeren. She's standing here telling fairy tales. That's all I can make of it. I can't tie a rope to it. We're going to a clean economy worldwide. The coal jobs will disappear. We've got 30 centuries of coal left! I'm not saying we'll have coal mines for another 30 years, but to say right now, all those jobs Trump promises in America will all be lost... I find it ridiculous for Mrs Van Tongeren to say that. She doesn't need that at all, does she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u72	That's an opinion, and you can find it. There were also people who were thrilled to say that the Wester and Oostergas factories were needed. Both factories were built, but hardly put into operation. Then there will also have been a Mrs Klever who said: we are going to use it for decades to come. Mrs Van Tongeren said: it is almost the end of those gas plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u73	What exactly is the point, Mrs. Klever?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u74	Words are being put in my mouth. "Then Mrs. Klever would have said." Mrs Klever has never said anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u75	But you don't listen very well either, Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u76	Not about the coal mines in Limburg. Not about the Westergas factory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u77	Wait a minute. Why are you talking through each other? That is not the custom here and certainly not when I am chairman. Go ahead, Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u78	Mrs Van Tongeren claims here that I would have made all kinds of statements about coal mines in Limburg or about the Westergas plant. That's really just sucked out of the thick thumb.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u79	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u80	It's a figure of style that might be too complicated for Mrs. Klever. But at that time there was also someone who played the same role as Mrs Klever is doing here today. This has been a long time. Mrs. Klever must have been quite young back then. And then there was someone who said: we shouldn't build such a Westergas plant at all, because we're not going to use that gas that way anymore and we're going to turn to natural gas. That is similar to what Mrs Van Tongeren is saying. History has shown that the Netherlands did indeed switch to natural gas very quickly at that time. These gas factories have then become art institutions, which I still enjoy a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u81	Thank you. I think you should be a little more friendly to each other and be a little more businesslike. I give the floor to Mr Vos of the PvdA. But I see now that he is not present in the Chamber. That is why I give the floor to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u82	Mr. Chairman. Charging your smartphone, getting on the train in the morning or getting in the car on your way to work, heating your home; it all seems obvious. The energy needed for this is always there. At least, that's what we think. At the same time, we want to make our energy supply more sustainable in order to combat climate change. Our children and grandchildren should also be able to prepare their hot meals and travel from A to B, but in a sustainable way. That is why more than 40 organisations, this cabinet and all Dutch people have worked on the energy agreement. This will make our society more sustainable. This is not self-evident, but in recent years Minister Kamp and the cabinet have taken great steps towards the future of our energy supply. We must continue to take those steps. We are ambitious, but we are also a country full of innovation. This innovative power must lead us to an energy market that operates without subsidies. The price of renewable energy is falling and the reduction of subsidies has been used as a result. But the VVD also sees that if we stopped subsidies now, that would only bring uncertainty. However, my group believes that an end date should be discussed. As far as the VVD is concerned, operating subsidies on energy should end in about ten years' time. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Can he tell us how he sees this reduction in subsidies? The storage of renewable energy that we are talking about today, in short, means that the energy bill is increasing again €62 per household. We are thus increasing the cost of energy, but we should also focus more strongly on achieving energy agreement objectives to reduce energy use. Homeowners should be encouraged to make their homes more sustainable. Almost no one in the Netherlands is looking into the possibilities. A tender system for energy saving could be part of the solution. Homeowners can take a package for a certain amount to make the house more sustainable. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. The sustainability of our society has consequences for our lives. There are windmills on land and at sea, there are solar panels on houses and there is a water turbine in the beautiful Oosterscheldekering. But these are the innovations that ensure that our children and grandchildren can always charge their smartphones in a sustainable way, always eat hot food and heat their homes. In recent years, we have made difficult choices, and we must continue to make these choices. Governing is forward-looking. This will enable us to ensure an affordable, reliable and clean energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u83	Mr. Chairman. The SDE+ scheme is a very important pillar of the energy agreement. There has been a major shift, of which our households and companies will see the consequences and results in the coming years. In recent years solar energy in particular has experienced spectacular growth. Mr Smaling said the same thing. With that growth, the CDA is happy. In fact, the CDA would have wanted solar energy to be even more attractive for cooperatives of residents, for example in conjunction with companies. We would have liked this to be promoted even better. The Minister could have done this through a simple scheme for solar energy cooperatives in the SDE+. But unfortunately, he chose an incomprehensible postcode rose scheme. The CDA believes that this is a missed opportunity, because this too could have increased the support for renewable energy. The government can stimulate support by letting someone decide and participate and, if necessary, compensate for wind energy. This can be done, for example, in the case of wind energy at sea, on which I had a debate with the Minister this afternoon. He then indicated that he is now engaged in involving residents to participate in wind at sea. The CDA thinks you can add a little bit more to that. It is certainly a step in the right direction, because until today the Minister did not really want to know about this. It is important that we work towards supporting wind at sea. Our residents will see a sharp increase in renewable energy storage in the energy bills in the years to come, so as to be able to pay the cost of the energy transition. We are talking about billions; the Minister said so this afternoon. He said that it would not be EUR 18 billion, nor EUR 12 billion, as we read in the official documents, but even EUR 8 billion. The CDA would like to receive the justification of these figures, so that we can look at this ourselves again. I'm sure the Minister is prepared to send these to the Chamber. The cost of renewable energy for households will increase significantly. The storage of renewable energy, abbreviated ODE, will be four times higher in 2020 compared to 2016. From a fair distribution of lusts and burdens, it would be a solidarity to allow households that pay for salads to contribute to the storage of renewable energy. The inhabitants who are in the happy circumstances to invest in sustainability from savings often do not realise that the bill is paid by those who do not and cannot. The colleague of the SP mentioned that as well. At the same time, the CDA believes that it should remain attractive for our residents to invest in renewable energy and to be able to recoup it within a reasonable period of time. The CDA often gets questions about the shelf life of the netting scheme. We regret this, because the CDA considers it important that the spectacular growth of recent years is sustained. This is why, in addition to its call for support for renewable energy projects in recent years, the CDA also calls for a simple and equitable approach to energy taxation. So not only research into merging ODE and energy taxation and a research into netting, but a sustainable analysis for a long-term vision of the overall pricing of energy. In June 2013, at the beginning of this cabinet period, I asked the Minister to do so. Now, by the end of this cabinet period, I will do it again. Not only should we look at administrative burdens, but we must look at a fair and proportionate energy tax for the future. Is the Minister prepared to work together with the Ministry of Finance on an analysis for a simple and just energy pricing so that we can make good decisions on these documents at the next cabinet term? Based on its stewardship, the CDA wants us to continue to look critically at the concrete results of our efforts under the SDE+ scheme. We want to be able to make a good assessment of the different ways of stimulating the generation of renewable energy for our society. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? We would like to know the return on the billions we are investing. Time goes on, and some forms of generating renewable energy may be less effective for society than we thought. The CDA wants this to be taken into account in the evaluation of the Energy Agreement; it is not part of the current evaluation. The CDA would like us to look at this in this way with a view to the future. Is the Minister prepared to do so? The inspiration for this comes from a report by the Court of Auditors in 2014, which critically examines expenditure on semi-electric cars. This afternoon's debate also highlighted this: 1.5 billion, according to the fact-checker, but we are talking about significant amounts of money here today, and we think that we should look closely at it. The CDA has often addressed the Minister in the way he deals with the sustainable energy budget reserve. A number of colleagues also spoke about this earlier this evening. The answer to the questions about the legislative proposal shows that more than twice the amount of renewable energy stored has been collected structurally than is spent on the SDE+. In 2014, 66 million was spent and 174 million raised. In 2015, 126 million was spent and 279 million raised. However, the money is not yet being used for the next year. It will not be taken into account by switching to a lower storage of renewable energy for 2017. These legally non-compulsory amounts remain in the budgetary reserve. The Minister did not comply with what he promised during the debate on the Renewable Energy Storage Act, namely that only 2% to 3% of the funds would actually be transferred. What exactly does the Minister want in the short and long term with these legally non-compulsory resources? The CDA would appreciate it if the minister would take us with him in his view of that. If you don't know exactly, you're gonna think about maybe logical explanations. Looking at what happens to the resources in the budget reserve from the MEP and the SDE scheme may be a statement. These schemes were active for the SDE+ scheme. These arrangements will temporarily remove 398 million in the coming years. These are not small amounts and are not covered after 2020. The CDA is curious to see what coverage exists for the obligations of the MEP and the SDE scheme beyond 2020. Or is the money that other Cabinets have put aside as a lubricant on the budget to put the deficit next on the board of a subsequent cabinet, with only one choice: fill the gap with the storage of renewable energy? Is it not being used indirectly for all kinds of things that may not have anything to do with renewable energy? I can hardly imagine this and I really hope it isn't. If this were the case, it would be a really bad thing. After all, the cabinet would then put a bomb under its own sustainability policy. I would like to hear a clear answer from the Minister on this point so that he can take away from us the concerns we have about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u84	Thank you very much. We have arrived at the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u85	I have an omission to make up for. I called Mr Vos to the speaker's seat, but he did not appear to have been put on the list of speakers. That wouldn't have gotten through to me. That's up to me. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u86	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman and Mr Vos did not take part in this debate. In itself, that is remarkable, but it is also very understandable. Let's look at what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u87	I am afraid that Mr Bosman must now say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u88	I understand that I did not impress the Minister very much, but I did ask a number of questions and I hope they will be answered!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u89	Excuse me, I misspoke. Mr Vos has not taken part in the debate and Mr Bosman has limited his input. That's very understandable. We need to look closely at what this bill is about. We have started with the previous cabinet the scheme for the storage of renewable energy. It was then discussed by the Chamber during this cabinet period. The scheme covered the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. That was a mistake. The scheme should have covered 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. It is now settled that the scheme covers a period of five years instead of a four-year period. So there's nothing new in it. It is correcting something that took place in 2012 and 2013 and where there are no new things at all, no changes. This cabinet period has worked in a very consistent and insightful way on the transition to renewable energy. All kinds of arrangements have been put in place and implemented. They have been dealt with and determined by the Chamber. We're all not gonna change that. We are correcting something technical and for the next cabinet period and the period after that all kinds of other things will have to happen again. I have heard no objection whatsoever to what is happening here, except for the two amendments tabled by Mrs van Tongeren, which I shall deal with in this way. All kinds of other things have been discussed in the contributions of the spokesmen. Mr President, I cannot shake off everything in terms of energy. I've come here for legal treatment. On the other points raised by the spokesmen, I will respond as well as I can, but it is difficult for me to give a great deal of thought on every subject unprepared and answer detailed questions. Then I'm überfragt, as it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u90	I'd just say overasked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u91	Then I've been asked over, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u92	I'll take a look around. I see that the Chamber understands that. I ask the Minister to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u93	Mrs Klever has come up with her well-known story, namely that billions of people are being defrauded for all kinds of useless expenses. Slowly it becomes a bit "in one ear and out the other." There are very few people who think it is useless to do anything about managing the climate problem. It is not for nothing that 194 countries from all over the world came together in Paris and made agreements on this. People are really worried about what's going on. There is a conviction that CO emissions should be reduced and that this should include the transition to renewable energy. Everyone also understands that if you want to replace an entire fossil-based energy infrastructure with an infrastructure based on renewable energy, you have to incur costs and take all kinds of action and make difficult decisions. Everyone understands that. And then every time, pretending it's all bullshit and basing a story on it... it's slowly going in one ear and out the other. Mrs Klever also says: we do not want to extend the law but to abolish it. I'll take note of that. She calls amounts of billions. I have already indicated in a debate with the Chamber this afternoon that, precisely because of the way we are dealing with it, we are able to achieve significant cost savings for a large part of the transition to renewable energy, which is wind at sea. As Mr Vos said this afternoon, we are moving towards the situation where renewable energy will be competitive with fossil energy. That needs to be completely built up. That's the infrastructure that needs to be built. We need to get some experience with that. We're gonna have to cut the cost. However, all this has been achieved. In the case of wind at sea, we have managed to achieve the ambition we had to reduce costs for a period of 10 years in one year. I have also said that we have specified the expenditure we originally thought of for wind at sea on closer examination. We originally thought of up to 18 billion euros. Then, when we worked that out and specified it, we reached 12 billion. Mrs Mulder just said to me: you mentioned 8 billion this afternoon; would you like to specify that? That was a bit short on Mrs Mulder's bend. I said this afternoon that it is my expectation that the real cost of wind at sea will be in the order of 8 billion. This is based on the assumptions contained in the National Energy Exploratory, on the outcome of the first tender we wrote for Borssele, on the current low interest rates and on the current electricity price. So I have said which elements contribute to this and I have indicated in what order of magnitude the outcome is expected to be. That's an indication I can give to the Chamber. I cannot specify this further; this depends on the outcome of the second tender and on the evolution of interest rates and electricity prices. But on the basis of the assessments we can make now, I give this indication to the Chamber, because it is important to know what is the most current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u94	The Minister states that he already knows my story and that it goes in one ear and goes out the other. That's fine; that's fine. I am not standing before the Minister at all; I am standing before my constituents and there are still about 1 million. But, of course, I have asked a number of questions. I was wondering if the Minister had now finished answering my questions, so he hasn't answered any questions, or has he come to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u95	I'm just getting started, so let Mrs. Klever wait and see what's coming. I come now to the second point that she has raised, namely the citizen who has to pay constantly and who has lost more and more money. Perhaps it is a good thing that Mrs Klever realises that, as a result of what is happening now, the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy, we need to build a new infrastructure. It costs money. These costs are, of course, ultimately borne by citizens and businesses in one form or another. The companies also pass that on to the citizens, as far as it is not export. It is therefore very good to look at the current state of play and expectations with regard to the impact on the citizens' electricity and gas bills. In view of developments in the electricity, gas, oil and coal markets and in view of what is happening in the area of renewable energy, it is now expected that citizens will lose less of gas and electricity by 2020 than in 2015. Perhaps I should say that again for Mrs Klever: citizens are expected to lose less by 2020 than in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u96	I see Mrs. Klever standing with a large piece of paper at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u97	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That is the National Energy Exploratory, the evaluation of the energy agreement. We are all based on that book here. What the Minister says, we can all read in this. What the Minister now calls the average. That's the average of people who do have money to invest in solar panels, in isolation and you name it, and people who don't have money. But the people who have no money to invest in solar panels, in insulation, in sustainability and so on will pay a lot more in 2020. So I'm asking the Minister not to tell half the story, but just the honest story, the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u98	Mrs. Klever better point that warning to herself. I have indicated what an average household will lose to gas and electricity in the year 2020 as a result of the current foreseeable developments. So that is less than in the year 2015. The average household is less lost than in the year 2015. Then Mrs Klever can say here that everyone has lost a lot more money and that billions are being thrown over the bar every time she comes up with this nonsense, but that is a long way from reality now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u99	So the Minister claims that what he writes in the note on the report is far from reality. In it, the Minister writes that up to 60 billion is spent on the energy transition, which seems to me to be 'billions', but that he expects it to be 32 billion. Then why am I calling out "billions" and why isn't that true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u100	That's what I just laid down. I have indicated what we have achieved on the most important part of the transition from building the new infrastructure, wind at sea. In a period of one year we realize the cost savings that were expected for a period of ten years. Originally, for that part alone, wind at sea, we assumed a maximum amount of 18 billion. The data I now have, with all the reservations I've made, indicate an amount in the order of 8 billion. You can see what developments are taking place there. In the end, it is about the effect for the citizens. Building an infrastructure for renewable energy and producing a lot of renewable energy means that there is less demand for fossil energy. Besides, you can see that there's a lot more fossil energy available than we used to think. That too has an effect on the price of fossil energy. The result of all this is that the average household is expected to pay less in 2020 than in 2015. Then it's not right to dish out the 1 million voters you're referring to and pretend like there's "I don't know what" going on and like the people are being squeezed out and all that. That's all bullshit. These are the facts I can present to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u101	You also have a second term, Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u102	Yeah, but I'd still like to object.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u103	I'm gonna ask the Minister to do something less. No, Mrs. Klever, you have a second term. So you can come back to this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u104	I'd like the Minister to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u105	No, no, I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u106	The Minister puts words in my mouth and says I say wrong things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u107	I am not giving you the floor. You have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u108	We had the debate on wind at sea this afternoon. In fact, the Minister said very proudly that the government is not going to invest 18 billion or 12 billion, but that it is going to invest 8 billion. When we talk about billions, it's about very big steps. So this in itself is good news for the taxpayer, I guess. When I ask the Minister if he can give me some justification, I find it a little difficult to do so in this Chamber, in fact, with the remark that I am going a little crazy. If there is a cut from 12 billion to 8 billion, isn't it perfectly normal that we want to know why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u109	I didn't say it was gonna be 8 billion. I said that assuming the latest information in the National Energy Exploratory, and the first tender, the current interest rate, the current electricity price and the current market situation, my estimate is in the order of 8 billion. I have therefore indicated exactly what the various underlying factors are which lead me to this indication. Look, it's my job to make sure I'm constantly transparent towards the Chamber. Whatever insights and information I have, I try to share with the Chamber. So I would like to point out to the House that we are able to achieve significant cost savings in terms of wind at sea. I will tell you in what order of magnitude these savings are in, and I will also tell you what effect that will ultimately have on the amount of the energy bill of the average household for electricity and gas. That's the information I can give the Chamber. If I am asked to give a specification of that 8 billion indication given by me, my answer is that I cannot give any further specification, because it is the cost that I am currently expecting for the large wind farms that we are going to build off the coast. The tender for the first wind farm has been completed. So we know what these costs are. With the second tender I come in December; then I can give the Chamber information about it. After that, however, there are three more to go. However, I can identify a trend and indicate what picture that trend will ultimately produce. That's what I shared with the room. That is the information I have at my disposal and I can share with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u110	Is the Minister's expectation that the interest rate could still be adjusted downwards? That is what the debate on coastal municipalities was about this afternoon: by applying a certain interest rate you will incur certain costs that may not be there. Then again, it's hard to defend why you're making a certain choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u111	This is another question. It is now about the social cost-benefit analysis that we have made. This is a particular technique in which all kinds of factors, expectations, effects are converted into money. Then you look at the pros and cons in money. Some assumptions have been made in the SME system. One assumption is that you're taking everything back to the net present value. A second is that you use a fixed discount rate, which is provided by the Ministry of Finance. It's unrelated to what I just switched. I have just spoken to Mrs Mulder about the cost of subsidies which I believe we have lost to the wind at sea. That's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u112	Thank you for this explanation, but I find it special that there is such a decline in billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u113	These are all conclusions that you can draw in the second term and not in the event of interruption. If you have a specific question to the Minister, you can ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u114	Let me do the President a favor and do it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u115	I'm a bit of a pain in the ass about it, I'm telling you, because the minister has only just begun his story. We recently agreed at the Bureau that we would let our guests who come here start their speech without us breathing down their necks immediately. After that, you will have all the room for debate, you will really take it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u116	I was still with Mrs Klever, who spoke, among other things, about energy taxation and storage of renewable energy. I have informed you that it is possible to consider whether we can merge it for the period after 2017. Mr Smaling and others have also addressed it, so let me answer that question right now. For the period after 2017, we need to re-examine whether the way in which we have all organised this is the most clear and sensible, including in terms of implementation costs. We have noticed that the separation of storage of renewable energy and energy taxes is a great deal of work for energy suppliers and for the Tax Administration, but in the end it is both the same. As a citizen you pay extra on top of the pure cost of energy, for all kinds of reasons. One of them is that we are making a transition to renewable energy, for which a new infrastructure needs to be built. Certain things are stimulated by us and other things we want to slow down. Both this energy tax and the storage of renewable energy are intended for this purpose. It is useful to consider for a new period whether the disadvantages of keeping that split and all the burdens that this entails for the companies concerned and for the Tax Administration outweigh the benefits. So we're going to find out if that's a real option. I don't know, but we're gonna investigate. That investigation will take place in the next cabinet period. I'm not going to do that again in this cabinet period. It is for the period after 2017. I guess there's a new cabinet already. The elections are in March 2017, as we all know. I'm announcing it's useful to do that, but I'll leave it to the next cabinet. It will then be considered whether this is a real option, whether the benefits are predominantly for the advantages and disadvantages, and that we should do so, but this is not topical at the moment. That is the point Mrs Klever has made. I have also answered Mr Smaling's question. He also talked about burden-sharing between citizens and businesses. We can divide the burden between citizens and businesses, and we have done so, but the burden on businesses will eventually end up with the citizens. Those companies have a profit and loss account and costs and revenues. What they have in terms of costs must also be covered by income. If they get more costs, they also need more income and then prices go up, so ultimately, the citizens pay everything. This does not apply to the export industry. In the export industry, these costs are paid abroad and the Dutch citizens will not suffer. The problem is, however, that the export industry must compete on the world market. If we put pressure on the energy-intensive export industry and make it pay more than it is now, then it will have an effect on its competitiveness, on its turnover and therefore on the employment it produces. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about the aluminum melters. That is one thing, but the energy intensive industry is also about Dow Chemical Terneuzen in Zeeland. That's an energy-intensive company. It is also about Shell and other companies in Rotterdam. Furthermore, it concerns Tata Steel and even the Dutch Railways, which also use a lot of electricity. The Dutch Railways do not compete on the world market, but the others do. If we are going to change things in her tax system, it will directly affect her competitiveness and employment. I can tell the Chamber that I must also constantly pay attention to the competitiveness of energy-intensive industries. These jobs and the continued existence of these companies are absolutely not self-evident, whereas those companies in the Netherlands are very efficient and comply with high environmental standards compared to other companies in the world. If we let these companies go to waste and then the market is taken over by companies in other parts of the world, then the world really is not going to get better. And employment in the Netherlands is getting worse. I would certainly like to talk on occasions with Mr Smaling and others about how we have made this distribution and whether there are any changes to it, but I say to Mr Smaling: do not do so in the case of a bill like this. It is only a matter of making it possible for a system agreed for this cabinet period to apply to this entire cabinet period as well. This is a technical bill. On that point, I would not like to make any changes at this time. That leads me immediately to both of Mrs Van Tongeren's amendments. These involve limited shifts, but in the end they will increase the burden on energy-intensive industries. Energy-intensive industries are under pressure, as I have already said. In addition, the Energy Agreement sets out major energy saving objectives for energy-intensive industries which it does not yet meet. At the moment, I am considering whether I should impose further obligations on her in order for her to achieve those objectives. So that's gonna cost money. This amendment to a technical legislative proposal which is not at all about this is something to be added to it. What the effects are and whatnot, has not been investigated. That would be very unwise. I would therefore advise against Mrs van Tongeren's amendments to item Nos. 7 and 8. Mr Smaling says that a CO levy is better than what we are doing now. Ultimately, it is about managing the climate problem. Ultimately, it is about CO and other greenhouse gas emissions. That is what we must send. In the light of the European directive, the government agreement and the energy agreement, we are sticking to the ambition of CO, energy saving and renewable energy for this cabinet period. For the future, that is my conviction, we will indeed have to turn to CO, as Mr Smaling says. For this we have the Emissions Trading System (ETS). That also works and there is also a CO price. That CO price alone is not yet so high that it is not only possible to set a limit on CO emissions for this purpose, it is very effective but it can also bring that limit down. The ETS is not yet optimally effective for this purpose. This is also why the cabinet is committed to further improving the ETS as soon as possible at European level. We are very motivated on this point. I think we are dealing with this in the same way as Mr Smaling. However, we must also keep an eye on the other objectives for this period. I will certainly return to the energy agenda for the next period. I shall say a little more about this later. Mr Smaling noted that low incomes paid relatively more for their energy. He will appreciate that as a result of all the developments that we have been working on and market developments, it is expected that no more energy payments will be required in 2020 than in 2015. Mr Smaling states that a low-income person pays more for energy, namely 9%. Someone with a higher income pays relatively less for energy. That's right. If you have a low income, you pay more for everything. That's how it works. If you have a higher income, you keep your money and you can do things you can't do with low income. A consolation to Mr Smaling will be that the Netherlands is one of the countries in the world, perhaps the country with the smallest income differences. In addition, every year we look again at the development of incomes when the budget is adopted. In this cabinet period, income disparities have become even smaller than they already were. We'll keep an eye on that. I know that Mr Smaling also does this every year through the purchasing power cards he appreciates very much. Mr Smaling also pointed out that he saw solar energy as the energy of the future. However, he believes that solar energy does not come from the SDE+ scheme sufficiently. We have created the SDE+ scheme to make the transition to renewable energy as cheap as possible. We have therefore come up with all kinds of things to ensure that what is always necessary is done, without making more money than is necessary. We have made an exception for wind at sea. That is why we have created a separate category. Within this category, we have managed to reduce costs even faster than in the other categories. The SDE+ scheme as a whole is a system in which there is competition between techniques. As far as solar energy is concerned, developments are certainly taking place, but solar energy also has its limitations. Cost development is interesting, but there is still competition between solar energy and other forms of energy. I think it is right that we should maintain this competition. The SDE+ system ensures that the costs do not exceed what is necessary and also ensures that the different techniques have an incentive to keep costs as low as possible, thus enabling them to compete better with each other. I am not in favour of separate treatment of solar energy. I do not think this is good for the goal we are pursuing together. Mr Smaling spoke about a 2011 study that would show that a huge amount of fossil energy subsidies is being given. I don't see that fossil energy subsidy. However, certain things are burdened more heavily than other things. If you go to the gas pump, you pay more taxes than if you are an energy-intensive company that has to compete on the world market. It can then be said that in the latter case subsidies are given, adding all these alleged subsidies together and then reaching 4.6 billion, but that does not help us very much. The subsidy, insofar as it is currently taking place, mainly consists of subsidies for renewable energy. A new infrastructure must be built and cost-effective, so that is where the incentive money is currently going. I referred to Mrs Van Tongeren's comments on energy taxation and storage of renewable energy. I have also dealt with her two amendments. She asked what long-term objectives are for the energy transition. Let me say something about the energy agenda, without going into the substance of it, because I am not finished with that. A few things play at the same time. There's a Chamber decision on coal power stations. There is also a judge's ruling in the so-called Urgenda case on the CO reduction target that the cabinet should have achieved by 2020. And we have the energy agenda with which I will come this year. I think it would be a good idea not to come to the Chamber until I have finished preparing all these things and have been able to assess them in their context. In any case, let us note that we have set the case in motion for this cabinet period. We can all see that. We have targets for 2020 and for 2023, so we are going even further than the next cabinet period. We now have the ambition to set targets in the energy agenda for the period after 2023. I think we're going a long way in this cabinet period, you know. I think it would be very wise for this energy agenda to be put in place. I also believe that it will certainly be important for the next cabinet to develop this subject further and to find sufficient support to ensure that all our ambitions can be realised. However, as I have announced, I will be presenting the energy agenda this year, in December. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about the netting arrangement. She said that it would take long-term security to get people to invest in solar panels on their own roof. This netting arrangement is a very favourable arrangement. With the increase in storage of renewable energy and the energy tax, this is also becoming more and more favourable. We need to see if all that is real. There are three incentive schemes. Mrs Mulder mentioned the Zip code rose scheme. The other is the SDE+ scheme, which we have just discussed. The third is the netting arrangement. We have said that in 2017 we will carry out an evaluation of the netting scheme, the most favourable scheme. I moved up that evaluation. That evaluation is now under way and I expect to conclude this year. I think I will come up with the conclusions of that evaluation in the first quarter of 2017. That means that we are a year ahead of what we were supposed to be doing. I hope that will also satisfy Mrs Van Tongeren. Ms Van Tongeren further asked whether the ETS would take into account the costs of energy that have to be incurred from the point of view of the environment and health. This concerns production, energy consumption and the form in which it has all been cast. Mrs Van Tongeren sometimes asks a question to which she knows the answer herself. I'm sure she knows that's not the case. Those costs are not considered within the ETS. There is no doubt that something like this could be interesting in that system and that these costs should somehow be related to it, but now the ETS is as practical as possible to ensure that we achieve that CO reduction in the least expensive way across Europe. That is what this system is all about. The additional elements mentioned by Mrs Van Tongeren are therefore not included. I must apologize again to Mr Bosman. I mistakenly made a small leap of thought. I shall now turn to the points he makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u117	But the minister had finished something. Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks now wants to ask him about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u118	The Minister is right: it was a rhetorical question and I know that these costs are not in the CO-emission trading system. It depends on how you read it, but the Minister's documents state that the external costs of conventional energy sources are included in the CO-emission trading system. And the only external costs in it are those for CO; the other ones are not. That's actually what my question was about. I asked if those other charges shouldn't actually be in there, or in another place. These costs are now being socialised: they are distributed throughout the community. In general, we say that such costs must be somewhere in the price of products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u119	Those are questions of principle, and you can ask them in a debate such as this evening. As I said, I actually agree with Mr Vos. This is a technical change. Indeed, you can bring in all kinds of things, such as the question of lower incomes, the ETS and the cost of health. It's okay to discuss all these things. We certainly should, but I do not think this debate is appropriate for that. We didn't prepare it, nor did we investigate it. I am very willing to speak on all the occasions that the Chamber wishes to discuss all these issues, but I suggest that we simply set it up and give each other an opportunity to prepare ourselves for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u120	When you made that remark at first, I inventoried whether the Chamber understood. There was no one protesting it, so that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u121	I agree. Hopefully we will have a major energy debate on the energy agenda in December. That would be a good opportunity. In this connection, I would like to make the preliminary announcement that I would very much like to look at the detailed answers. I think that's fine in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u122	Mr Bosman said that in ten years' time renewable energy subsidies should end. It may well be that Mr Bosman is right about that. At present, we are making commitments for a period of 15 years. He means, however, that we should not be making new commitments again soon. Of course, that's all gonna come into the picture. If you see what happens at sea at wind, it will also have effect with wind on land. If you see what happens around manure fermentation: FrieslandCampina has the ambition to place 1,000 manure digesters at the dairy farmers' premises by the year 2020. When you see the cost evolution of solar energy. If you see what we all do about energy in water, whether it's tides or the transition from fresh water to salt water. We're all investigating those possibilities. If you see what we're doing with very deep geothermals; anything can happen there. The speed's in. Wind at sea has proven that. It is quite conceivable that in ten years' time there will be free competition between fossil and sustainable, as Mr Vos said. I cannot say now that this will be the case, but if that is an important objective for him and his group, it is of substantial significance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u123	For the sake of clarity, my group is not in favour of free competition between fossil and sustainable. However, my group provides for a reduction in the cost of renewable energy to a level below that of fossil energy, which will automatically phase out fossil energy. As far as I am concerned, this is the purpose of the interventions that the government is now making: to upgrade the scale so that we no longer need fossil energy in the long term. Fossil is: Bye, bye! Durable: hello! But we are not in favour of free competition. That's for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u124	Fossil is fossil, that's how I need to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u125	I hear Mr Vos say a lot of sensible things, except when he took the word 'VVD' in his mouth. Other than that, I agree with him. Mr Bosman spoke of a tender system for energy saving. He talked about the savings in the built environment and in particular about what needs to be done in the houses. At the moment, that's not going well enough. Compared to all the other countries in Europe, energy savings are fantastic in the Netherlands, but we are never satisfied with them. That is why we are the most competitive economy in Europe. That's why there's a lot going on in this country. After all, if there's anything better, we want it better. That is also what Mr Bosman said. More needs to be done, therefore, in terms of energy saving in the built-up environment, especially in the case of housing. We're investigating two ways to do that. One possibility is that we require energy suppliers to make energy savings available to their customers. The other possibility is that a kind of tender system will be unleashed in the spirit of what Mr Bosman said. I don't know what's coming out of that yet. I'm looking into both of them. Once it has been sorted out, we will decide on this and we will make it clear to the Chamber, including Mr Bosman. Mrs Mulder spoke about the incomprehensible postcode rose scheme. This is a system whereby there is a lower rate for energy taxation for cooperative projects. That means that if you do something together in a particular area with a lot of people in terms of renewable energy, you also get benefits for it. This scheme applies to your own area, to your own zip code, but also the accompanying zip code areas can participate in such projects. As a rule, this is abbreviated to postcode rose regulation. That is one of the three arrangements in place to stimulate the issue. During this cabinet period, I am doing very much to ensure that this arrangement works optimally. All the obstacles I'm facing, I'm trying to take them away. I also notice that there is progress, but we will see. The next cabinet period will take stock of the arrangements we have, i.e. the netting system, the postcode rose scheme and the SDE+ scheme, and will look at how they work and whether we continue them unchanged or whether we are going to put new emphasis on them. I think we should check that out at the right moments. Mrs Mulder spoke of the importance of simple energy pricing. I think these are valuable thoughts of hers. We are striving for optimum transparency. Transparency must be such as to have a positive impact on desirable developments. So simple energy pricing sounds good to me. Let's see how that can be further developed. Mrs Mulder also spoke about the budget reserve. It is not the case that the resources from the budget reserve are used for other purposes. With the budget reserve, we are making commitments, for which we must have money available. This money is then gradually being spent. So there's a period in between. In the period between that, the money is in reserve. At some point, it's gonna be published. That money is never spent on anything else. There is, however, the possibility of temporary use elsewhere. If you have a lot of money in a budget in a ministry, while you need money in another place for a few years, you can do different things. You can impose additional taxes on the citizens for a few years or you can start cutting back and destroying things that you prefer to maintain, but it is also possible to use temporary surpluses in another reserve in a responsible way, if you only guarantee that the money will be returned to that reserve and that the money will be available when it is to be spent on renewable energy. That's how we do it every time. The Court is informed of this in detail, both orally and in writing. I think the Chamber knows that, however things develop, the money we raise for renewable energy is used exclusively for renewable energy, in this cabinet period and, as far as I am concerned, in the next cabinet period. That is where Mrs Mulder is sitting, as I understand it, at least again. I am sure she will be watching this. I think I've answered all the questions. If that is not the case, I will hear it in the second term and I will do my best in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u126	I can already tell you that you have the Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 10 have not yet provided any comments. The purpose of this amendment is simply to say that the highest rate is also the highest refund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u127	I don't have that amendment. Can I have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u128	Yes, you will. We have come to the end of the first-term response. I see that there is a need for a second deadline, but not for a suspension prior to that. I call Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u129	Mr. Chairman. We're used to a few lies from the VVD, but the minister's going to make it pretty big tonight. I simply confront him with figures from his own written reply to this bill: the 60 billion he intends to take on grant decisions, the 31.3 billion he intends to raise for this through the windmill tax and the table showing that storage of renewable energy will quadruple in four years to around €200 per household per year in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u130	We're a lot used to the PVV. I understand that, too. I am just sorry that we have to have this debate in this way. There's no need for that. A lack of content can be masked by using big words. That won't be necessary. Just on the content! You'll come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u131	This interruption was about the use of the word "lies," which you may ask whether it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u132	I have quoted figures here which the Minister himself has on p. 2 of the note on the report. It is, of course, a little strange that I am then blamed by the Minister for scattering billions and that it is all wrong. With all due respect, I think that's a lie, because the Minister himself writes it. So I'm sticking to my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u133	First of all, I think it is inappropriate to do so towards the Minister. It can still be on content, it can still be on care. Mrs Klever mentioned the VVD. I don't think that's appropriate. That puts a whole lot of people in there, away like liars. I think that is unwise, inappropriate and not justified. There's already enough brutality in society. Maybe it would suit us to moderate the tone a little bit and look for the content. I understand it's hard for the PVV to find that content, but try it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u134	I think my input here is the most substantive. At least I'm looking at the numbers. What's it gonna cost? Then the Minister may laugh, but he also says: well, Mrs Klever's input goes into one ear and out the other. We're sitting here as a chamber to check on the minister. And that the whole Chamber welcomes the Minister, the parties must know that for themselves, that is absolutely fine. But if there's one person, one party that doesn't, then of course the Minister can't say: well, it's all a bit bullshit. What I'm saying isn't bullshit. Again, I'd like to quote it as well. I will look at the chairman and will not do so for the sake of time. But if the Minister denies it again, I'll quote it in the interrupting microphone later. There is another question that the Minister has not answered. It's about the $30 billion hole he's not gonna cover. My question was: does the Minister not expect to be rich and will he not be putting up with the Netherlands with a setback of EUR 30 billion? If he is going to enjoy his retirement, we are still paying for many years for policies that the minister is now making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u135	Mrs. Klever, may I ask you to temper that kind of personal unpleasantness a little bit? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u136	I was done with my second term input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u137	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the speedy response. Even if it is just a small technical law, I have the experience with such a bill that it usually provides an opportunity to work out some information on the functioning of the system and reflections on where we should go in the future. Maybe that's another First Chamber tick of mine, but I always think that's a good opportunity. Maybe the minister still has a jet lag. After all, New Zealand is far away. It's gonna take you a week. Anyway, whatever it is. We are going to talk about this in the context of the energy agenda. I have a motion to make, but I will keep it for the debate we will have on that. That motion is about the subjects I've put down with the Minister. He answered that too. I think, however, that we need to go into it a little more deeply, and that we still need to get the pros and cons of certain choices a little deeper together than we are doing here today. It is a small law, my group will simply vote for it and then we will see each other again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u138	Mr. Chairman. It is not surprising, but it is a pity that the Minister does not see the fine little incentive that GroenLinks has put in these amendments. A financial incentive to move in the right direction, I think, is something the Minister and I both want. The Minister also says that this energy saving in heavy industry does not come about on its own. He signed an energy agreement that does. This would give just that little push and the reward to citizens, in whom there is more enthusiasm to take those measures where they can. I welcome the commitment that, in a debate on the energy agenda, we will consider in greater detail the external costs involved. The debate on what is and is not subsidised is a fundamental debate. It is very useful to carry that out, especially for the long term. It is also good to hear from this Minister that he is looking at what is needed to ensure that the incentive remains for citizens to move forward more energy-efficiently. I refer to the netting arrangement, in what form it may exist. The Minister also sees that a longer-term guarantee for citizens and small projects means that they are more willing to invest. As this Minister knows, I like a strong debate. I'm really trying to do that mainly on the content. I like clashing hard on that. I agree with what the President and Mr Bosman said: I think it is unnecessary to call guests who we invite a liar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u139	Mr. Chairman. I can almost agree with what my colleague Mr Van Tongeren said. I stand here as a representative of the people, but also as a father. If you stand here as a father, you may feel even more responsibility for your children and for the future. Governing is forward-looking. Then you must also have the guts to make choices for the future. These choices for the future are not always easy these days. If your view is shorter than tomorrow, less than a year and less than ten years ahead, then it is very easy to call off the sideline. Then it is very easy to measure each other and say: the rest is wrong and we are the only ones who are right. Then I regret that the PVV comes with a future for the Netherlands with one A4' and everyone here in the Chamber takes the measure, without a vision of the future. Then I say, what does the PVV want for my children? What is the future for my children, not only economically, but also in terms of nature and climate? I also call it air and it can breathe. It is about the concern for the climate that we all feel. It is 194 countries that are concerned about this. Almost every country in the world is concerned about that. Then I find it strange that the PVV here takes everyone's measure and says: yes, but you're all crazy. I'm sorry about that, and I don't need to. If you take the content and say "where do we want to come out in the future and what does society look like?" That is the role that we have here in this Parliament, so that you can make your own choices, but I choose my children. I choose that future. I choose that responsibility and say: we have to look further than just today. That is what we are doing with a subsidy that will get us wind at sea and generate a price so low that it will compete with what fossil does. The energy price is getting so low that the costs for people are getting lower and lower. That makes us competitive. If the PVV thinks that the market is only the Netherlands and does not see that what Germany does has an effect on the Netherlands, if the PVV thinks that the borders are just closed, also for energy, that is very limited. I was very much in doubt about the second term, but I had to do it because I think it is heartfelt that we should talk about society. That easy calling from the sidelines, I'm a little done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u140	Mr Bosman talks about the one A4 from the PVV every time. Let me tell you a secret: my input into this debate covered two A4s. I think your input was very short. That's all I'm gonna say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u141	That's kind of funny. We were just having a conversation about whether it could be a hammer piece. Several colleagues felt the same way. Then I think: it was not appointed in the Chamber, so I am not going to name it either. But the responsibility we have means... do you want to say something, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u142	Above all, I want to avoid repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u143	Don't worry. I have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u144	Yes, but that does not mean that it is useful to say the same thing as has been said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u145	I'm not going to. We make choices in life. This law could have been a hammer piece for us because we think it is important for the future of the Netherlands, including for my children. The law is important for our future energy supply. These are the choices we make. That's why I'm saying talk about society. Find out what that society looks like and where your responsibilities lie. It's easy to take each other's measurements, but come up with the contents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u146	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that subsidies in the energy transition have been granted for too long on, for example, semi-electric cars and that the General Court notes that so much money has been spent without a measurable CO effect;]] [[Whereas SDE+'s funds should be used in the most effective way for the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually at a fixed time on the effectiveness of each of the major expenditures made with SDE+ and to have it validated as far as possible externally (e.g. by the General Court),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the increased complexity and the increasing load on energy;]] [[Whereas households are increasingly investing in solar panels and energy-saving measures and need to clarify the profitability of their investments;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a comprehensive assessment for households of taxes on energy including storage of renewable energy and the tax rebate and their future development to complement the evaluation of the netting scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34497-11]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34497-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u147	I tabled this motion because the Minister indicated that he wanted a simple and fair approach to energy taxation. At least it appealed to him, and I want to give it a little more substance. I hope the Minister and I share the same view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u148	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I have found that the Minister needs a few seconds to look at the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u149	Mr. Chairman. I can imagine the surprise that Mr Bosman is living with about Mrs Klever's contribution. Ms Klever said that she devoted more than two A4's to the bill, a scheme that was intended for the period 2013-2017, but which accidentally came into force 2013-2016. That is now being corrected and she needs two A4s for that. It is not surprising that Mr Bosman is surprised: if you have enough A4 for the whole country's policy in the next four years, I can imagine that he will say something about that. Mrs Klever took the word "liar" in her mouth with regard to me. I understood that in support of this, she stated that at some point €280 storage of renewable energy should be paid for an average household. I didn't say anything about that. I didn't deny it and I didn't confirm it. I said that on the basis of the national energy exploration figures, the figures I have now, as a result of a number of developments I have appointed, an average household is expected to pay less in 2020 for the gas and electricity bills than they did in the past year 2015. Mrs Klever may not be right because she always suggests that huge sums of money have to be paid, but these are the facts that lie ahead. That does not justify the qualification of a liar in any way. Then Mrs Klever says that I would not cover an amount of 30 billion. I don't know what Mrs. Klever's talking about. We indicate exactly what we all want to do about renewable energy and what the costs are. As more electricity is produced, there will also be subsidies. For this we have set up a reserve and have an SDE+ systematiek and a storage sustainable energy systematiek. That is all very clearly understandable, so I really do not know what Mrs Klever is talking about if she says that there would be an amount of EUR 30 billion not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u150	Mrs Klever has already announced that she would come up with quotes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u151	Yes. I'll just quote it. I have here the paper on the report. On p. 2 at the bottom, I quote: "that the scope for entering into new commitments in 2016 and subsequent years is estimated at around 50 to 60 billion'. A little further on, it says: "In the budget and multiannual estimates, the SDE+ has an amount of 31 billion available for payments in the years 2016 to 2032." So I see a gap of between 20 and 30 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u152	You can randomly extract numbers from some book and then extract numbers from another book. If you put it next to each other, you can see that there are differences between them, so there is a big gap. You're comparing incomparable cases. We commit ourselves to the transition from fossil to renewable energy. Those obligations lead to payment at the time of actual performance. When the electricity is delivered, you get state subsidies. Its design is very detailed per supported initiative in the form of a grant and the settlement that takes place. It's all very neatly displayed. Where we first spoke of maximum amounts that we might need, it appears from developments that the actual amounts are lower. That's what I'm communicating with the Room. One time in a letter, the other time I do it orally here, but each time we try to get the right information to the Chamber as early as possible. That's what's happened now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u153	Now the Minister suggests that I extract numbers from different documents. It is in the same document in the same paragraph. Anyway, we're not gonna get out of this. I suggest that the people who are following this debate read it themselves on p. 2. Then there's the Minister's other point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u154	Maybe Mrs. Klever thinks she's done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u155	Mind if I finish my story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u156	Mrs Klever has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u157	My other point is about average households. I am not fighting the Minister's figures on average households at all. But a resident of the canal belt that has solar panels will soon have a lower energy bill, while someone with a minimum wage will have a higher energy bill. On average, the energy bill is indeed equal, maybe a little more or maybe a little less. I am concerned, however, with the following table, which appears in the National Energy Exploratory page. 142. That table is about households that do nothing about energy saving or renewable energy production. That could be because they simply don't have the money for it. Those people are gonna pay $200 more later. That's just what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u158	What it says is that we in our country are working on the transition from fossil to renewable energy in all kinds of places. We have all kinds of energy-saving programmes for this, so as to reduce energy requirements as much as possible. We're trying to replace gas with heat. We are trying to make much more use of renewable electricity. That's what we're gonna have to charge for. Then you have to give an image; what does that mean for the citizens of the Netherlands? There are people living in the canal belt, but there are a lot more people living out there, elsewhere in the country, Mrs Klever. What's the average effect on people? The price of gas and electricity is falling on average over the next five years. Then you shouldn't suggest that it's very different, because then you're just turning people's minds. I would like to thank Mr Smaling for the support he can finally give to the legislative proposal. I also continue to be available to discuss in depth the points he considers important in the field of energy. I would like to receive invitations and will be happy to participate. Mrs Van Tongeren has said that there is a good chance of shifting the burden of citizens to energy-intensive industries. I must say that I have a very different feeling in my daily practice of Minister. I spoke to the trade union movement this afternoon about Tata Steel. I have talked to all the energy-intensive companies in Zeeland about the issues they are dealing with. I have also had to make arrangements on a number of occasions for the energy-intensive industry to ensure the competitiveness of these companies on the world market. This is a constant concern for me. Shifts in there I don't want to, or only after we've looked at the effects of that and had a good time talking about it. I think it would be unwise for a legislative proposal such as the one that is now before us to make such a shift with such an amendment. That is why I did not recommend those two amendments by Mrs Van Tongeren. On the substance of the amendment to item No. 10 I have no disagreement with Mrs Van Tongeren. In this way, if there are windfalls in spending on renewable energy, it aims to translate those windfalls into lower rates for the storage of renewable energy. That's what she wants, and that's what I'm doing. That's already happening one-on-one right now. We are looking at actual expenditure. We estimate them as best we can every time on the basis of the latest information, and on that basis we adjust the rates. The benefits we are currently achieving for wind at sea are thus fully translated into lower rates for the storage of renewable energy. So those rates are lower than we thought before. We thought it was more necessary for them to be higher. This amendment by Mrs Van Tongeren is not necessary in order to achieve that. It is therefore superfluous and I therefore recommend that this amendment be rejected. 10, despite the fact that I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren on the substance. This has to happen, and it will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u159	There is, of course, a chance that the current minister in the upcoming cabinet will no longer be the minister who will take care of this. By the way, he's already announced that himself. That is one of the reasons why the Chamber, as co-legislator, wants to lay down matters in a law. And that's why I want to record this. I hear that the Minister has no objection to the content, but he says that we are already doing it and that is why it is not necessary to lay it down in a law. I am therefore very curious to see what my colleagues in the Chamber think about this. Perhaps they agree with me that it would be very useful to have this laid down in a law for a subsequent cabinet period as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u160	I would really advise your colleagues in the Chamber, because the whole system of the SDE+ and the ODE is perfectly clear. The SDE+ serves to make the transition to renewable energy as cheap as possible through competition from different techniques. The costs you have to pay for this can be translated into the storage of renewable energy, but no more than that. The whole system means that if the costs are lower, the storage is also lower. There is really no need to introduce a separate legal provision for this. This is the essence of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u161	On constitutional grounds, which I must also monitor here, I say that amendment is not dependent on the person of the ruler, but on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u162	Article 2 states that the revenue goes to renewable energy sources, while the explanatory statement refers to renewable energy sources. That's two different things. If the legal text is "renewable', but the text in the explanatory memorandum is "sustainable', what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u163	That is a question that should be put to Mrs Van Tongeren. If I have to speak now about the exact difference between renewable energy and renewable energy, I would ask for a suspension from the President to prepare myself for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u164	I'm afraid Mrs. Van Tongeren does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u165	Yes, we are going to amend the explanatory statement as proposed by the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u166	The Minister may already know what that change is, but what does it say about his judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u167	It's still the same. I don't recommend the amendment. Mrs Mulder has tabled two motions to the Chamber. In her first motion, the one in part No. 11, she says that the government should report at a fixed annual time on the effectiveness of each of the major expenditures made with the SDE+ and have it validated as much externally as possible. The system of the SDE+ is that expenditures are committed to grant commitments are only made at the time of performance. We can give Borssele 1, to the company DONG Energy, a large amount of subsidy, but it only gets that when it supplies electricity. So there's an automatic relationship between performance and getting money. This makes the effectiveness crystal clear. Moreover, the General Court is closely monitoring this whole system. He has recently published a comprehensive report on the SDE+ with a positive outcome. Every year I inform the Court in general about the results of the SDE+ and the cost-effectiveness of the scheme, additional to the cost-effectiveness already contained in the scheme. I think we are already doing what Mrs Mulder is trying to do, and I therefore advise against her first motion. In her second motion, the one in part No. 12, Ms Mulder asked the government to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the taxation of energy for households, including the storage of renewable energy, the tax rebate and their future development to complement the evaluation of the netting scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u168	Before proceeding, I would like to give Mrs Mulder an opportunity to ask a question about your assessment of the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u169	Yes, Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. It is about the relationship between the money we invest and the reduction of CO emissions, the long-term goal that we have in mind in the House of Representatives. That objective is not always clear, and that is why I am tabling this motion, because I think it may be enlightening. If the Minister says he's taking that in one of the reports anyway, that's fine with me. However, I would like to know for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u170	I think that, because of the system of the SDE+, we are already doing what Mrs Mulder asks of the General Court and the annual information I give to the Chamber. If she sees any improvement possibilities in this respect, I will be able to understand them and see if I can also improve them. I suggest we talk about that together. I am of good will to do it in such a way that Mrs Mulder is also satisfied with it, but I am convinced that, because of the systematic and all the information available to the Chamber, it is now good. I therefore advise against a ruling in the Chamber on this point. I will remain available for suggestions from Mrs Mulder to do things better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u171	Then I will go in consultation with the Minister and hold my motion until then. If I don't come out well, I can always refer the motion to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u172	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (34497), No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u173	Yeah, although I had some trouble with that. I find it difficult to follow: 'an integrated assessment for households of taxes on energy including storage of renewable energy and the tax rebate and their future development to complement the evaluation of the netting scheme'. I have already said that the evaluation of the netting scheme is coming a year earlier. It will come to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2017. In the energy agenda that I am sending to the Chamber in December, you will find several proposals on energy taxation. I think these are also things that will be discussed in the next cabinet period. Then it can be considered whether changes need to be made. That is no longer the case for this cabinet period. We're going a long way ahead of ourselves. That is also necessary, I think, to ensure that developments on the transition from fossil to sustainable are made as quickly as possible. I think we already have a lot of evaluations and information and we're getting it. I do not think it would be useful to carry out an integrated evaluation on top of that. Let me continue with what I am already doing, namely evaluations, information, agendas and plans. In the next four-year cabinet period, accents can be put back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u174	I didn't hear a judicium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u175	I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u176	In that energy bill for our households we see a accumulation of different taxes. That's very unclear for a lot of people. I would like to simplify that account. We're in the middle of several evaluations. I don't want them living their own lives next to each other. That is actually the purpose of this motion. I would like to see simplification and pre-sorting for the next cabinet so that it can make a good decision from the analysis that is being made. It's gonna have to be simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u177	I think it would be useful to include what Mrs Mulder suggests in the question of whether it is justified to combine the ODE with the energy tax. Then we talk about the taxes imposed on citizens and businesses in addition to the bare energy price. Then there is the VAT. I think that the whole of Mrs Mulder's report should then be presented. That's the right time to do what she asks. I would like to say to her that I will involve Mrs Mulder in the assessment of whether it is appropriate to combine storage of renewable energy and energy taxation. Maybe that's enough for her to withdraw this motion or hold it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u178	Yes, I had already understood that we had arrived at the stage of praise and bidding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u179	Thank you for this commitment from the Minister. I would appreciate it very much if the netting arrangement would be involved. I notice that people who invest in solar panels on their roofs are often quite willing to pay to windmills at sea. They don't do that automatically now, and it's all about the whole, integral consideration that matters to me. If the minister wants to get that involved, I might leave the premises a little happier than I entered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u180	With the evaluation of the netting scheme I come in the first quarter of 2017. I think that the element mentioned by Mrs Mulder is a useful element to involve in the broader assessment, so I will also do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u181	Does that lead to any action on your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u182	I would also like to thank the Minister for this commitment. I'll just hold this motion until then. Then I can see if that has been properly processed. If that is not the case, I shall retable the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u183	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (34497), No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u184	I have the impression that the Minister has come to the end of his reply. I thank him very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u185	On Tuesday there will be a vote on the motions and amendments tabled.
