ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u1	Once again, I welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and, by way of derogation from the list of speakers, I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill in the House of Representatives on various legislative changes to the Telecommunications Act. There are good proposals, but our group still has a number of questions to the Minister about compensation in case of malfunctions, the removal of the threshold for business subscribers and the accessibility of numbering information in case the paper version of the Telephone Guide disappears. In November 2015, it was hit: a national malfunction at KPN prevented nearly 2 million customers from watching TV for a day. Malfunctions regularly raise the question of whether these users are entitled to compensation. The CDA has always preferred self-regulation, but unfortunately the Minister points out that this cannot be done because of competition rules. We would very much like to receive a further explanation from the Minister on this point, so that we can really see here that this is not a common way of solving the problems. If self-regulation is not possible, the CDA is open to a legal compensation scheme. The CDA has always wanted to prevent the creation of a bureaucratic monstrosity that does no good to anyone. In this way we have looked at the Minister's proposal. What appeals to us is that, because of the feasibility of the system, the Minister has chosen to apply compensation only in the region in which subscribers are resident or located. In doing so, the Minister also took into account the fact that you are not going to see which people are still coming through such an area and what about their privacy. The CDA welcomes the fact that the compensation scheme proposed by the Cabinet is based on simplicity due to the fault, whatever the cause, attributed to the provider. This will prevent consumers and businesses from needing the intervention of the courts in the event of any malfunction in order to determine whether there is force majeure, which could, of course, lead to lengthy procedures on the accountability of the malfunction. Therefore, exceptional weather conditions or power failures are also covered by the compensation scheme. The CDA supports this because no one is waiting for a complex system with unnecessarily many rules. In the legislative proposal, our group reads that an earthquake is covered by the exception, because it is seen as an extreme case. Only earthquakes occur regularly in the Netherlands, look at Groningen. As a result, according to the CBS, there is unfortunately no 'extreme case' anymore. From the point of view of simplicity, the CDA therefore proposes that, in the event of an earthquake, the right to compensation should apply. For the CDA, it is also unclear why, in principle, the choice between the automatic provision of compensation and the provision of compensation on demand is left to the provider itself. The CDA can imagine that anonymous prepaid customers are chosen for technical reasons. But why hasn't simplicity been chosen by allowing only automatic compensation? Do the providers in the current proposal not all opt for on-demand compensation, because they hope that customers will forget it in this way or that they find it too much trouble to collect that limited amount of compensation? In a calculation example, the Minister states that he assumes that around 20% of customers will use the scheme by applying for compensation. Doesn't that just mean that in practice the compensation on demand may be very little? Has the Minister considered making the compensation automatic at all times? What were the Minister's reasons for not doing so? I come to the second point of our input, removing the threshold for small business subscribers. In 2014, the Court concluded that small business subscribers and consumers share the same negotiating position, but that the switching threshold is not the same. Consumers can cancel a contract that has been implicitly renewed free of charge with a notice period of one month, while small business subscribers face tacit renewals of at least one year after the expiry of the original contract term. It is not easy for them to switch. That is why the CDA co-hosted a motion from colleagues De Love and Oosenbrug to align this. The Minister has incorporated this motion into the law and the CDA is very pleased with that. We note, however, that the one-month notice period will apply not only to small business subscribers, but also to large business subscribers. The Cabinet states that a distinction between small and large-scale subscribers is not possible because of the definitions used in the Telecommunications Act and in the European Directives. The result is that the cabinet has decided to include an exception in the law. Article 7.2a (6) allows derogations from the notice period of up to one month and allows for a period of notice of up to three months. However, the exception may only be used at the express request of the subscriber. The Minister states that the subscriber must therefore explicitly agree to this derogation, for example by offering the subscriber the choice in a contract offer, but the CDA would like to be sure that this includes "at the express request of the subscriber" in law, in order to avoid this three-month derogation becoming the standard. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I come now to my final point, the paper Telephone Guide. It is clear that the paper Telephone Guide will be less and less used and that there is a cheaper digital alternative. The Minister's letter also shows that the printed guide was consulted by 2.5 million unique users every month in 2014 and that 41.3% of the Dutch population aged 18 and over uses the printed directory at least once a year. You're talking about 5.5 million users. With these figures, we can conclude that the image of the paper Telephone Guide that would only be dusting is not entirely correct. The figures in the letter also show that the number of people over 55 in non-urban areas is relatively high. This group faces many changes and finds it difficult to adapt to all these changes. This certainly applies to older people who do not have the Internet and who may not know how to deal with it. Well, that's a problem. Not only the CDA sees this problem. The National Ombudsman also sees this problem and concludes that digitisation puts pressure on the self-reliance of older people. The Ombudsman indicates that he considers it important that there is always another option open to people. So we need to weigh very carefully here whether it is sensible that this bill should make it possible for the paper Telephone Guide to disappear. It has therefore also surprised the CDA that the entire House of Representatives, including 50PLUS, already voted in May 2014 for the motion to phase out the legal obligation for the paper Telephone Guide, while we do not even know what the exact consequences will be. A majority of the Chamber, including 50PLUS, also voted in favour of abolishing the blue tax envelope. This too has been careless and has serious consequences, particularly for the elderly. Speed then suddenly seems to be more important than care. That's not the way the CDA would want to go. The CDA finds it incredibly important that numbering information remains accessible to all residents of the Netherlands, without obstacles. The company DTG will continue to publish the paper Phone Guide until the end of 2017. What happens after that is now a choice of the market. To assess whether it is justified that the paper Telephone Guide may disappear after the end of 2017, the CDA still has a number of questions to the cabinet. What exactly are the consequences for vulnerable groups such as the elderly and people without the Internet? Why is it justified, according to the Cabinet, that the paper Telephone Guide may disappear after the end of 2017? Is the Minister prepared to investigate the need for the paper Telephone Guide by the end of 2016, early 2017? For example, people could send in a response card that shows this need. Is it possible for the cabinet to agree with DTG or any other party that they are going to issue the paper Telephone Guide longer than at the end of 2017 if it turns out that in the run-up to the end of 2017 the removal of the paper Phone Guide is not yet justified? How does the telephone subscriber information service work in practice? Is it accessible and free? Does the legal guarantee of the telephone subscriber information service provide sufficient access for people without the Internet to request numbering information? Finally, we ask the Minister whether he can promise that a resident of the Netherlands will always, even at the time when DTG stops publishing the paper Telephone Guide, that paper Phone Guide can at least get it on request. Those were the three points of the CDA. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u3	I have a question for clarification. The bill regulates the removal of the legal obligation to provide the paper Telephone Guide to every household in the Netherlands. Does Mrs Mulder agree with me that it would be very crazy if DTG stopped completely with the paper Telephone Guide, when it is one of the activities of that company and it also makes money from it, as I was told? Mrs Mulder, with her input and her questions, suggests that the paper Telephone Guide disappears, but we are now only regulating that the legal obligation to deliver that paper Telephone Guide to every household in the Netherlands lapses. I thought the company would be crazy not to deliver that thing as long as there's demand. Does Mrs. Mulder see that nuance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u4	I have just asked the Minister if he is prepared to look into the fact that the paper Telephone Directory will actually exist, if there is still a need for it in the future. Indeed, the legal obligation to provide the paper Telephone Guide to every household is no longer present. Mr De Love and the CDA agree on that. However, we do not want to move too fast, as with the blue tax envelope, to eliminate things too quickly and to put people in vulnerable situations. The CDA really doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u5	In any case, it is a little clearer to me that the CDA does not oppose abolishing the legal obligation to deliver a pile of dead trees to every household, but that the CDA wants to see people who still need them able to get phone numbers, e-mail addresses and website names on paper and make sure that this might come under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u6	The CDA would like the Minister's guarantee that there is at any time no obstacle for people who simply need that information and cannot request it themselves via the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. As far as the PVV is concerned, the consumer is at the forefront. For this reason, the PVV argues for maximum competition, both in fixed and mobile networks, the PVV opposes Brussels' restriction of net neutrality and attracts the PVV when consumers are misled by false advertising promises. This bill is an improvement for consumers and small business users, but it can be even better in terms of PVV. If there is a malfunction in the network, it is good if a customer is compensated. As far as we are concerned, the purpose of this compensation is, on the one hand, to compensate users for the damage suffered. On the other hand, the compensation should encourage the network operator to provide a reliable service. With regard to the first point, indemnifying the users, the bill is rather lean. You don't get compensation until the network's out for more than 12 hours. That compensation is minimal in terms of money. If you have a subscription for €60 per month and the network is out 24 hours, you will receive legal compensation of €2. For someone who uses the network to telework and can't work all day, that's obviously nothing three times. For a company that has mechanics that use the mobile network to deal with customers or to consult documentation, the compensation is also a joke. If you sell the economic damage of a major network failure at the amount of damage that has to be paid legally, the ratio is lost. As regards PVV, therefore, a minimum interference duration of six hours is used as the lower limit instead of the proposed 12 hours and legal damages are increased to one-thirtieth of the monthly hourly amount instead of per day, with 36 hours as the upper limit per malfunction. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. That brings me to the second point, namely that compensation should give the administrator the best incentive to provide a reliable service. In order to incorporate that incentive into the law, the PVV would like the minister to include the cause principle in the law: the one causing the disturbance pays. Now the person offering the service must provide the compensation. The PVV considers that the network owner should pay the damages if the disruption occurs in his network. After all, only a network holder can actually make and keep the network reliable. The provider of a service has no control over that and perhaps even no understanding at all. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I look forward to the response of the Minister and the other parties. The PVV considers that the triggering principle combined with higher compensation will create a better financial incentive for the network owner to keep the network reliable. Indeed, an unreliable network leads to high damages, making it financially more attractive to invest in the reliability of the network. And a reliable network should be the prime objective of the minister. Mobile networks are already very important for consumers, small business users and the economy, but in a few years' time these networks will be indispensable. The way in which the Minister has now put the bill together does not do justice to a future in which mobile networks are critical infrastructure for our economy. Finally, the PVV can agree to the other points in this law, such as removing switching thresholds for small business subscribers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. My group also has a brief contribution to make to this collectible law, which regulates a lot of different parts. I don't have any questions about most of the parts, but I do have some questions about a few things. I would like to endorse Mrs Mulder's remark that people should have the assurance that they will be provided with a paper telephone directory if they need it, but so far I had confidence that it will be as arranged as Mrs Mulder would have liked it, namely that you do not have to come up with a whole argument list but that you can just get one of those things delivered if you need it. At least that is what my group has in mind. I have a few other points, first of all the national FM radio. KWINK has started an investigation into what is needed to achieve successful digitisation. However, the complaint comes from the sector that only questions are asked and that the sector is left in the dark as to what the Ministry thinks is necessary. Moreover, there has been no response to the digitalisation plans sent by the sector after the summer. When will the sector get the necessary clarity? And what about the local FM plans? If they are left behind, as was the case earlier, what consequences will this have for the extension? Then I come to the question of compensation in the event of a telecommunications malfunction, as Mrs Klever has just clearly argued. I thought she was talking earlier about the lower limit of four hours. Am I to understand that she was speaking now of a six-hour limit? I see that's right. I have also always taken the view that a lower limit than that 12-hour period would be better. I find the following when I only look at my own work, and I still work for the people; I don't have my own company which makes me feel directly in the papers if I can't reach a customer in time or make contact. We get a fixed salary as MP, but if I can't call for four hours, the turnips are pretty cooked. Then there's a pretty big problem. A fixed telephone network is very nice, but is also quite clumsy from the train. I fit in to keep asking people if maybe I could borrow their cell phones for a while. I don't think that lower limit of 12 hours is very realistic. Wouldn't it be better to adjust it down a little bit? Six hours may be a nice lower limit, but I can also imagine that we would assume a lower limit of four hours. In any case, I believe that my group has already taken this view. I'll close with the national AM radio. In addition to what was in the previous document, the masts in which the high-power AM transmitters have been installed to date are being demolished by mast administrators. Is this not to be anticipated and is there still room for transmission if the Minister is actually going to grant permits for the AM? In addition, I can leave it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal to strengthen telecommunications policy. The Council of State has indicated that a number of issues would not be appropriate to be included in this collecting law. It concerns the shifting of power lines, the compensation of subscribers and the ban on spoofing. The government did not follow the advice, as the legislative changes would fit into existing policy baselines. In order to comply with the opinion, although paragraph 3 of the general part of the explanatory memorandum has been supplemented, does the government not use too broad an interpretation of the existing criteria? Can the Minister say a few words about this? The PvdA Group welcomes the arrival of the compensation scheme, but we still find the amount of €1 per day a little low, especially compared to failures in the aviation sector and the energy sector for example. On page 4 of the note on the report, the Minister also mentions it as a 'low amount'. The PvdA Group is not yet convinced that this compensation scheme, except as a remedy for consumers, can, in particular, serve as an incentive for telecom companies to minimise the number of failures. Nor is the PvdA's group convinced that the amount of compensation has at present been set at the correct level. How will this ultimately work out in practice? The PvdA Group was nevertheless somewhat surprised that the amount and minimum number of hours were seen by the Minister as a technical interpretation which should be regulated in a ministerial arrangement, without any involvement of the Chamber. Can the Minister reconsider this and still refer this regulation to the Chamber? Next, my group has questions about the so-called wholesale. Can the Minister comment on the responsibility of the wholesale party in the compensation scheme? If the fault lies there, can the providers recover the cost of the compensation scheme? Of course, the PvdA Group, like other groups, is very pleased that the switching thresholds for business subscribers are being removed and Article 7.2a will apply not only to consumers but also to business subscribers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u10	I had another question about the previous point of the wholesale trade. Mrs Oosenbrug asks the Minister what he thinks they should pay compensation for a malfunction in the event of a disruption in the network. How does Mrs Oosenbrug feel about that herself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u11	That a disturbance has to be paid for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u12	That the wholesale parties must pay for a disruption if the disruption occurs in the network.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u13	That makes perfect sense. The provider of the network is also responsible for this. If a wholesale party subcontracts its network to a third party and if it is a clearly identifiable malfunction of the wholesale party, they will have to come to terms with the compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u14	So if a telecom provider uses another's network and if there is a disruption in the other's network, it is not the telecom provider but the network operator who is responsible for the cost of compensation to the consumer? Let me get this straight. Is that what Mrs. Oosenbrug says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u15	It's about where the interference occurs. That could be in the network itself, like in the hard cables, or in the wifi, in the antennae. Whoever is responsible for this, who resells it to another party, will eventually have to pay if there is a malfunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u16	I am glad that we agree on that. I hope that the Labour Party will also support the amendment I tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u17	I had stayed at the switching thresholds for the business subscribers. SMEs in particular suffer from annoying transition barriers. It is sometimes held for contracts that have been implicitly renewed. The PvdA Group has asked whether the Van Dam Act, which prohibits tacit extension outside the telecommunications sector, can also apply to entrepreneurs. On page 12 of the note following the report, the Minister states that he considers this to be a far-reaching extension of the Civil Code. However, my group does not think that the answer to the question of why it can be done in the telecoms sector and beyond is convincing. According to the Minister, tacit extension in the telecommunications sector would be a persistent transition threshold and not beyond. For the PvdA Group, this distinction is not clear at all. Can the Minister explain why the Van Dam Act cannot also apply to entrepreneurs? The PvdA Group wonders whether Article 11.10a, the so-called "spoofing ban," has been correctly formulated. Could the prohibition actually be described in terms of technical neutrality, as advised by the Council of State and as previously agreed in the Chamber? This article seems to be mainly about number transfer, but should the article not be worded more broadly so that all other forms of spoofing are covered and not just spoofing via number transfer services? That technique-neutral description is so important because the technique is progressing. It's still going through numbers, but eventually it can go through a MAC address and you can go spoofing everything. If you describe it as texting services, the law gets a little behind when things change. I asked the Minister how the companies that actively offer spoofing have responded to this bill. Should these companies now cease to operate or have they indicated that there is a legal reason why they offer these services? I'd like to get an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u18	Can you explain to those members who are less digitally educated what spoofing in Dutch means, Mrs Oosenbrug?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u19	It's already described in the bill. Spoofing means that I am sending you a text in which I pretend to be Minister Kamp and in which I write: Mr President, you behave a bit. Then you think, "Why is Minister Kamp sending me this message?" That kind of means spoofing. You can use that in a teasing way, but it can also be used, for example, for committing crimes. So it's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you on behalf of all the people who are following this debate and who are less qualified in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u21	You're welcome. In the most recent AO Telecom, which I unfortunately could not attend due to another plenary debate, the Minister indicated his intention to extend the FM frequencies, provided that it is legally sustainable. That's what I've been able to find in the pieces. The research firm KWINK was then commissioned to carry out an investigation. Can the Minister state the latest state of play on radio frequencies? How does he assess the submitted digitisation plans? How's the meeting going? I know it's not really in the bill, but since we're talking about telecoms, I'm going to bring this up anyway. Finally, I would like to talk about the transition from the paper world to the digital world. Is it true that in 2014 41% of the population still used the paper Telephone Guide and there were 2.5 million unique users each month? Until when does DTG expect to issue the Phone Guide? What replacement service will be arranged for people without the Internet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. I remember it well: a number of years ago a number of media in this house used spoofing, resulting in hilarious images. I think the colleague was Van der Staaij who thought he was getting a message from a minister who complimented him on the colour of his tie. That was one of the jokes that was played at the time. That was very funny, but, as Mrs Oosenbrug says, it can be used for very many evil intentions. I am therefore curious to hear the Minister's response to her questions. I am pleased that the Minister has included in this bill a scheme to compensate for damage to consumers in the event of possible long-term failures. I remember the fire at Vodafone in Rotterdam. This affected not only consumers, but also tens of thousands of officials, a whole set of directors and 150 MPs. After all, we called and called Vodafone at the time. All of a sudden, all of our communication was out. That took a couple of days. At that time Vodafone was there as the chickens to provide us with "regional roaming" SIM cards that allowed us to call on competitors' networks, but that was of course not an ideal solution. This incident has alarmed the Chamber, the Cabinet and the government about the vulnerability of some networks. This compensation scheme is one of its consequences, as is the way in which we have started to think about infrastructure safety. I think that's a good thing. I also support the Minister's choice of simplicity and exceptions. I think you can't always make everyone happy. A number of market players have reported to me, but I suspect a number of colleagues have also objected to the way in which it has now been set up. I understand that very well, but at the same time I understand the considerations of workability, so simplicity. I support the solution chosen by the Minister. I very much welcome what the Minister has done to implement my motion on lowering the transition thresholds. A practice that we have seen for years is that entrepreneurs have always been unpleasantly surprised because they thought they could switch, when they should have canceled their contract two or three months in advance. If they didn't do that in time, they'd be tied to that contract for another two years. It was sometimes different per product, so an entrepreneur who wanted to switch with several products, had quite a lot of trouble or had to pay a large amount of buy-back. I very much welcome the fact that we are now putting an end to this. Entrepreneurs can potentially care about hundreds to thousands of euros a year. I'm talking about the small entrepreneurs, like the bakery on the corner, who delivers some sandwiches to customers in the neighborhood, and the administration office with an internet connection and a couple of cell phones. Such companies can very much benefit from this. What is my surprise, however? During the kerstreces I received reports from various quarters that a number of larger providers are actively approaching their customer base with offers leading to a five-year extension. I repeat: up to five years of extension! Five years ago, the iPhone 3GS just came out. Five years ago Spotify just existed, but hardly anyone knew it. Five years ago, we barely used WhatsApp. Five years ago, there was 90% less data consumption than today. Then I think: that is not the intention of freedom in a market. Yeah, it's allowed under the current law. Still, it sounds to me like that market players are thinking, "Damn it, because of this change of law, I'm risking losing some of my client base, so I'm gonna let my customers make a nice offer right now, but for a long time. I have seen some examples of offers, for example: a one-year contract had a 5% discount, a two-year contract with a 10% discount, a three-year contract with a 15% discount and a five-year contract with a 35% discount. Yes, I can also send customers in the direction of a desired "outcome," as the English say. That's allowed by the law, but I don't think that's the intention. I see it as a bit of a way to anticipate this bill, which lowers switching thresholds, and to try to postpone the positive effect that this part of the law can be expected to have, they see it as a risk to their existing customer base by about five years. As far as I am concerned, I say that over the head of the Minister to the market players, clearly not the intention of this bill. I very much hope that the market players have not used this as a conscious sales strategy. I hope that this is something of a number of overly enthusiastic sellers and that it is an exception. I ask the Minister if he, his department or the ACM have received any signals about this. I would ask him to inform the House of this. I call on the Minister or the ACM to monitor closely what propositions are now being placed on the market. We want to improve competition in this market. We want to increase competition and freedom of choice in this market. If this is how the market players act in practice... I say "if" and "appear." I am not saying that this is the way it is happening now, but the signals point to that. We must be aware of that. The Minister and the ACM currently have better tools in their hands than the individual MPs. That is why I am asking the Minister this question. I have a few more topics to discuss. Articles 5.8 and 5.9 cover, to put it bluntly, the voluntary or compulsory transfer of cables and pipes into the ground of another person because one person or organisation intends to carry out construction activities on that piece of land, in which there are still cables and pipes. One article looks at housing and regular construction. The other article looks at large infrastructure works. I have received several signals from the market that current practice is already working properly and that there is a fear that the way in which it is regulated in these two Articles, 5.8 and 5.9, will lead to unnecessary costs for market players without any improvement on current practice. I'm asking the Minister to respond to this. I agree with the questions raised by a number of colleagues on radio frequencies and the way in which KWINK is currently collecting information. I also get signals that it is a bit of a black box and that KWINK is asking a lot of questions, but that the market players are not aware of the reasons for asking these questions and what the parameters are for those parties, when they submitted a lot of proposals to the department a long time ago, I think in August last year. However, both from the department and from KWINK they have never received a response to or an appreciation of these proposals. I think it would be useful for a good execution and for a good discussion in the Chamber about the investigation if parties in the market know where they stand and what the parameters are. Can the Minister promise that he will share that with the parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u23	I haven't heard Mr. Love talk about compensation in case of malfunctions. I see that he has asked a question about this in the written input for this bill. Does Mr. De Love agree with me that there should be a causer principle in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u24	I did talk about the compensation scheme. I told him the reason was the fire at Vodafone and we started to think about it. I have also indicated that I support the Minister in his consideration of simplicity and grounds for exception. It is true that I did not explicitly mention the cause principle. It seems to me that the answer given by the Minister in the note to the report was adequate. I can imagine that parties should in principle be able to agree on this. I am also aware that a number of parties have complained that they are not in a position to make many demands in the negotiations with the three major mobile providers. I think Mrs Klever has achieved that information in recent years. That is why I ask whether these signals are also known to the cabinet. What appreciation is given to that? I also understand that, if they don't come out amongst themselves, the market parties sometimes report to us in the hope that we will try to resolve a mutual dispute for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u25	I thank Mr De Love for this comprehensive explanation, but he himself said that there are three major network owners, and then we can't really talk about a market. If there are three network owners, we're talking about some kind of oligopoly. That is almost by definition not a competitive market. Does Mr De Love agree with me that it is very easy to say: should the ACM see to that? Does he agree with me that, when we amend the Telecom Act, we are now in a position to properly regulate the trigger principle in the law and that we should do the same? We shouldn't be hiding behind the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u26	I'm not hiding behind anyone. I'll look at the practice we've agreed on. Certain powers lie with certain institutions. The ACM tests for significant market power and for possible abuse of that power. As far as I understand it, the ACM does not see sufficient reason. The ACM states that there is no significant market power, so there is not one dominant party on the market and so, in principle, things are going well. That is why I have expressly asked the Minister whether there are any signs and evidence that it is not going well. When a telecom lobbyist reports to me, I am always open to what he has to say. But when it comes to such matters, I always like it if the statement can also be proved or strengthened by written documents, e-mail exchanges, call reports or otherwise. Maybe Mrs. Klever does, but they never got to me. Perhaps the Minister, who has a larger device, and the ACM have that kind of piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr De Love talks about lobbyists reporting, but I do not have much to do with lobbyists. I am concerned with the principle that the causer pays. So if there's a malfunction in the network, the network owner should pay. It is very strange that the commercial party that offers the telecoms and has no control over the network should pay for a network malfunction. I think that's the reverse world. That has nothing to do with lobbyists or anything else, but with the point of principle that the author pays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u28	I understand Mrs Klever's point. I understand her reasoning; she's right too. The only question is whether we should regulate this legally or whether the market itself is in a position to regulate it among itself. In that respect, we are in a slightly different position. Mrs Klever expressly chooses to regulate it legally. I'm not ready yet. I want to see proof first that the market is not able to organise it itself. So I am not against what Mrs Klever says by definition. I'm just wondering if we should take care of that right now. I would like to make a general comment on lobbyists. I also consider the citizen who reports to me with an angry or encouraging e-mail to be a lobbyist, because it also stands up for his own interest. Any mailing that reaches me, I judge in the same way, whether it comes from a citizen or from people who have organised themselves professionally through VNO-NCW, Greenpeace or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u29	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would remind Members that the amendments which have just been discussed have been distributed this morning and this afternoon respectively. So they will not be distributed during the meeting. We only do this with amendments tabled during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. Could I first explain why we are putting forward a draft general law? Mrs Oosenbrug has asked me critically about this. It has indicated that the Council of State is not so keen on putting a number of issues together in a collective law. According to the Council of State, bringing legislative changes into the process can harm the due diligence of the legislation. In this case, I think we have been careful. We have not raked a lot of subjects together to present them to the Chamber in one law. These are amendments to a single law, namely the Telecommunications Act. There are a lot of different topics covered: tolerating and relocating telecommunications cables, access to networks and services, consumer protection and the use of numbers and frequencies. We have brought together the issues that have been raised recently, especially by motions tabled in the Chamber, and those that have already been covered by that one law. It is therefore a single law, namely the Telecommunications Act, and subjects which are already covered by that law and which are now being further developed. For this reason, I believe that we have made appropriate use of the 'collecting law' instrument here. On the other points raised by Mrs Oosenbrug, I would like to go into more detail, but I thought it would be a good idea to put this down in advance. Perhaps it would also be good to outline in advance the state of the radio frequencies. We have had a long discussion with the Chamber on two points in this connection. In the end, the Chamber made statements that were different from what the cabinet and I wanted, but we are now in the process of making these statements a reality. The first point was that the Chamber asked the government by motion to lift the restriction on ownership. This should be done as early as 1 January of this year and has now been implemented. The second point was that Chamber said that we should extend instead of auctioning, while the cabinet wanted to auction the licences for the use of frequencies. I then looked at how I can carry out that motion and what legal basis there may be for renewal instead of auctioning. I see the opportunity to say that it is a good thing to extend it on the basis of the necessary and highly desirable digitisation, because it enables the companies that have radio frequencies to invest and to ensure that they are able to move towards digitalisation quickly. That could be an argument not to auction, but to extend. But then you have to have information to assess whether what companies want to do in terms of digitalisation is indeed sufficient to not auction but to extend. We are therefore trying to get the plans of these companies. What exactly are companies going to do in terms of digitisation and investment in digitalisation? That process is very difficult. We need to make a big move on that. We have also asked an agency to assess the information, if any, and to advise us on it. In the meantime, we are ready to have a lot of plans, albeit with great difficulty. However, a number of plans are not yet in place, particularly from non-national radio stations and also from an AM station. So we're not here yet, but I'm trying to get that information in a form in which a good assessment by consultancy KWINK is possible. Then that agency can give me a good advice and I can make a decision on that. I am therefore in the process of carrying out the ruling of the Chamber to the letter and the spirit. At the moment we are working on collecting the information and the plans. We're asking questions, too. All this is necessary to make a responsible decision in accordance with the law. That's what I wanted to say about the radio frequencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u31	I would like to thank the Minister for his explanation of the process so far. According to the minister for the market players, is it clear what the basis on which the department of the minister and KWINK will now assess whether the plans are sufficient or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u32	It's their argument. They have said that we should not be auctioning, but extending, because they want and need to invest so much in digitalisation. They say that they can only do so if it is extended. They will therefore have the opportunity to make that clear to me. So they can come up with those plans. Those plans are different and they're slowing down. We're after it, so they come up with plans. The KWINK consultancy firm will then proceed on the basis of its own expertise. KWINK wants to come to me with good advice. So it's looking at those plans. If KWINK sees that information is missing or that things are not the same, it asks questions about it. Answers can be given. That way we will be able to do our job. If there are any questions with the companies, then they have to ask them and then we will try to answer them properly, but above all I would like answers from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u33	I can imagine that very well. A number of companies have also said they are going to invest. But if you want to compare the plans, I also understand that there is a need for some kind of benchmark. Is half a percent more digitization enough? Does it have to be meaningful? Isn't half a percent meaningful? A little help with what the department and possibly KWINK uses as a basis or criterion to assess these plans can help, I think, to conclude the discussion as soon as possible. Does the minister know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u34	Yeah, I get that I have a lot of help to do. I'm willing to do that, too. Despite the objections I had with regard to those ownership restrictions, as of 1 January, I did what the Chamber asked. Here I also want to do what the Chamber asks, but I do need a basis in the law to do so, because the rule is to auction. If I want to extend, there must be arguments for that. According to the companies, the useful argument is that it is necessary for digitisation. That's what they thought. Then they will have the opportunity to give it to me. Then we gather that and look at what these arguments are and what is going on with digitisation and investment, which would make it necessary to extend it. Then they come up with that information. Insofar as that information is not yet sufficient, or not in the right form to give the good advice, they are questioned by KWINK and then they can come up with answers. I don't think it's right to put the ball in the cabinet or at KWINK. The initiative comes from these companies. They shall be given an opportunity to provide information. They are helped by the active preparation of KWINK, also in the form of questionnaires. That's how we have to get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you for this good clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u36	Finally, Mr. Love.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u37	Can the Minister promise that it will not happen that information will be constantly requested and provided, but that it will be concluded at some point that it is insufficient, so that the plans are not satisfactory? I think the companies are very motivated, at least that's what I've heard from them to invest in digitisation. They have made proposals, but they have no idea whether they meet the expectations of the department or KWINK, with its expertise. This makes it somewhat a black box for them. If guidance, guidance or help can be provided, as I have tasted in the Minister's words, then that is very helpful. I do not think that asking questions and supplementary questions is helpful, but sometimes asking a question, with an explanation of why that question is being asked, can be of great value in getting the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u38	I'm not gonna take over the responsibility of those companies. They came up with the argument that digitalisation requires an extension and that there should be a derogation from the main rule of the law. The Chamber has said that it agrees and that it should therefore be extended. I intend to do that Chamber speech. I am working to request these plans and KWINK is working to give the opportunity, through additional questions, to strengthen further information, where these plans are not yet sufficiently comparable or have insufficient content. This is aimed at achieving the performance of the Chamber's motion. This must be achieved by the companies. I don't want to take over that responsibility from them, but I do want to carry out the chamber motion. That's why KWINK is enabled, which works with questionnaires. Our attitude, both KWINK's and mine's, is to ensure that the companies are given the opportunity to come up with all the relevant information, which is very similar and is molded in the right form. For example, an opinion can be given that allows me to conclude that the exception in the law for renewal applies to digitalisation and that, on that basis, it can be extended. That's my endeavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u39	I hear the minister say that it was with the companies and that it came from a company, but later he recovered and said that it was a question from the Chamber and that he is going to carry it out. At that time, the Chamber also asked for good handles to be provided. In any case, I am sure that I asked because I think digitisation is a very important subject. So you have to say what information is needed, for example, that the report states how quickly one is going to digitize and how much percent. Good agreements need to be made. If you don't ask the companies what you need, I think it's going to be a tricky back and forth game, saying, for example, that a company doesn't meet the demand because there are additional questions. Is it possible to ask very sharp questions to those who have to deliver the reports? Think of questions like: how is digitisation mapped? What is delivered between now and four years or ten years? I don't remember the period. Is that possible? Or should they first provide information and KWINK then says: this is not quite what we wanted from you; we want more? Then it becomes a bit of a back and forth game. Do I understand that correctly from the Minister's words? Or do I see it too black?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mrs Oosenbrug says it was something of the Chamber, but it was something of the companies. They didn't want an auction, they wanted an extension. In the end, despite my arguments, the Chamber said that it was in agreement with the companies and that it wanted an extension. So that's what I'm gonna do. There must be no misunderstanding about my willingness to implement the ruling of the Chamber as long as it is possible. That's what I'm doing. Mr. De Love says that there is ping-pong and that it goes back and forth. This signal is confirmed by Mrs Oosenbrug. That's a good reason for me to take another look at it. I believe that communication between the companies, the Ministry and the KWINK office, which has been involved, should be such that I am able to take a responsible decision on renewal, in the spirit of the wishes of the Chamber. I shall therefore look into this, but there should be no misunderstanding about my willingness to implement the Court's ruling, if only at all possible. Mrs Gesthuizen also asked about this. She asked for clarity for the sector. I hope I gave this to you with this. A number of points have been raised by all the spokesmen. I'll go over it first. The first concerns compensation in the event of a malfunction. Ms Klever felt that the amount of compensation was insufficient to compensate for the damage. I think we should be aware that this is not the intention either. The compensation is not intended to compensate for the damage. If you have a company and suffer damage due to the termination of the telecom connection, you can report that damage to the company where you have that connection. Depending on the terms you have agreed in the contract, you can recover the damage. If this company doesn't then give you what you think you're entitled to, you can go to court. You are entitled to that compensation, unless otherwise specified in the contract. The compensation will therefore remain in place. I can't touch that. Now, however, we are talking about compensation. You'll pay a certain amount per month................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If that connection fails at some point, this must be compensated. The first question is when you start compensating. Is that what you do when there's no connection for two days? Or are you gonna set the line by a day or 12:00, 4:00 or 2:00? We must realise that if the border is set too low and there are disturbances here and there, it is possible that compensation may be dealt with fairly regularly. This could be a considerable burden on industry, which is not in fact in a good proportion to the revenues for those affected by this disturbance. So we've been looking for a few hours that weren't too high and not too low. We've come to those twelve hours, and I think that number of hours is the best way to defend it, and that's what I'm doing. This seems reasonable to me. Not for every wiper you have to start the compensation circus, but it is also not that you only get compensation in the event of long-term failures. It's somewhere quite in the middle and I like to defend it here. The second point is whether the amount involved is large enough. We've been looking for the balance between what you pay and what you get compensated for. If you only pay €30 per month for a connection and that connection disappears for 12 hours or for a day, it would be strange to get a large amount of compensation for that. The amount you get compensated must be in a reasonable proportion to the amount you pay yourself. I have therefore said that for every day that there is a malfunction, you will receive one thirty of the amount you pay per month in compensation. I think that's a good arrangement at the bottom. I say "at the bottom," because of course companies are free to go beyond this. Companies do that, too. Some say they'll automatically compensate and not just on demand. They'll compensate everyone. In this way, they can distinguish themselves from each other, and that can also strengthen their relationship with their customers, so that they can do better commercially. That's the freedom the companies have. We are laying down an arrangement at the bottom so that everyone knows that this must be done. If someone is confronted with being unable to call or not being able to Internet, then the person responsible must also compensate for this. It is reasonable, both in relation to the number of hours that the malfunction has lasted, and in relation to the amount you have to pay. Mrs Klever mentions the fact that on the one hand you have companies that have a network, and on the other hand telecom providers that do not have a network, but do offer their services to customers. If a problem arises in a network, then it is strange that a telecom provider without a network should then compensate the consumer. After all, the problem is caused by someone else. Mrs Klever is right about that, but that is inherent in doing business. You are a telecom provider and you use a network of someone else to serve your customers. So you're gonna have to take care of your business. You have to make sure you can use a net, you have to pay an amount for it, and you have to make agreements about it. One of the appointments you can make is about what happens when there's a malfunction. Is that malfunction on behalf of the network company or can you handle it yourself with the customer? You can make an appointment with that network company about that. I do not think it is up to us to dictate what needs to be done in the relationship between such a telecom provider and such a network company. That's what they have to fight each other out in our country. Where we do not want unnecessary rules, I think this would really be an example of an unnecessary rule. That is why I do not recommend the amendment tabled by Mrs Klever on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u41	I am sorry that the Minister is not recommending my amendment. The situation is that we have network companies and telecom providers. Through this law, we require telecom providers to compensate their customers in the event of a disruption. Those telecom providers should in fact compensate for something that they have absolutely no influence on. It is precisely the network owners who influence that network. Isn't that a slightly crooked situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u42	If as a company I use the infrastructure of another company, for example KPN, and I want to enter into a relationship with a customer and then a problem arises in the relationship with that customer, then it is my business because I entered into that relationship with that customer. If I can't deliver that customer, I have to compensate that customer. Then the question is what my position is in the direction of, in this example, KPN. Well, that depends. If I have signed a contract with the network company that means that if compensation has to be paid, I can pass that compensation on to the network company, then I can, but if I made another appointment, I can't. You have to leave that to the market, in this case to the telecom providers and network companies. They are big, old and sensible enough and have to deal with each other. We don't need to be in the middle of that. We have to do this in terms of consumers, because we have to give them protection, but we let them regulate it among themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u43	Then the Minister assumes that we have a perfectly functioning market and that if a network company does not have its network in order, such a telecom provider can go to several other network companies. However, the fact is that we only have three network providers in the Netherlands. So that's not a perfect market, but an oligopoly, so that means that these network companies actually have more power, a significant market power. This is by definition the case with oligopolies. In such a situation, it is still strange that if a network holder drops stings, it is not the network holder who has to pay for that but the telecom provider. Another purpose of this law is, of course, also a well-functioning network. A consumer prefers a well-functioning network than a few euros compensation every month. I think we all agree on that. But in order to maintain a well-functioning network and to encourage network companies to do so, those companies must also feel the pain when they do not keep that network well. There must be an incentive for network companies to invest in that network. I assume the Minister agrees with me that this incentive is not there when a network company never has to pay compensation for a disturbance because it is always paid by a telecom company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u44	I would like to address both of Mrs Klever's points. Firstly, it says that there is a dominant position and that there is no functioning market. I think we have a well-functioning market in the Netherlands, even in Europe, with several providers of fixed and mobile networks. If there is a dominant position, the ACM acts. The ACM has already imposed a number of conditions on KPN, imposed obligations and issued fines, so the ACM is on top of that. I have just outlined that good business needs to be done between a telecom provider and a network company. If something goes wrong in the sphere of abuse of power, then the ACM will act against it. That is why we have created the ACM and it is also on top of it in these kinds of cases. I therefore believe that we have taken good care of consumer protection and that we have taken care of it as a result of Mr De Love's motion. now have also expanded for the business market. I'll be right back. With regard to this aspect, it is quite reasonable to leave it to the market. Secondly, Mrs Klever says that we should also encourage network operators to establish good networks. I think they are well aware of that. That's their strong point. If they have good networks, they can compete, get customers and earn money. On top of that natural stimulus that already exists, we have now given the additional incentive of compensation. I believe that this is an additional step for something that is already going well, for companies that are already motivated to deliver a good product. I think that we are strengthening this further now, as a good point that we are introducing here with this legislative amendment. There is also another amendment by Mrs Mulder on this point. She says: it's good that you keep it simple, that there's no discussion about responsibility and all that, but that the consumer like him is also compensated. But she feels that there is one exception too much, namely that something is happening that is caused by an earthquake. It explained this. I think that Mrs Mulder's argument is not unreasonable. I therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide on its amendment. You can look at that in different ways, but the way she looks at it is certainly defensible, so the judgment is up to Chamber as far as I am concerned. With regard to the transition thresholds, it is now so arranged for consumers, including as a result of Mr De Love's motion. that a subscription should not exceed two years. If you implicitly renew that subscription and if you decide to stop doing so at some point, you can cancel it with a month's notice. Moreover, it is also well regulated by the companies that you can easily switch from one provider to another. In this respect, therefore, the issue is well in order for consumers. Mr De Liefde then also made a motion (24095, No. 363) that consumer protection should also apply to the small business user. I cannot distinguish between a small business and a large business user. You could look at the definition of SMEs. This definition means that companies up to 249 employees are classified as SMEs and that all companies with more employees are classified as large, but there are huge discussions about whether a company has fewer or more than 250 employees. What kind of employees are they? Are they also people who have temporary contracts? Does it concern people who have been hired through temp agencies? Does this include people who work part-time? Then all kinds of information must be given to the telecom providers before they can assess it. In practice, it is completely unworkable. In order to do justice to the motion, I have chosen not to distinguish between small and large-scale users and to apply the scheme not only to consumers, but to all business companies. This means that if the contract of a business company has expired, that company can also get rid of it with a month's notice. The large companies conclude very detailed contracts with which a lot of things are attached and where very complex agreements are made. In practice, it turns out that if you want to switch from one telecom provider to another, it takes you two to three months to get it all right in terms of connections. This means that the big business companies may have an interest in getting that three-month period as well. If these companies are willing to accept three months instead of one month, then it is possible for the telecoms provider to respond properly. Then there can also be good negotiation of the price. That's in the interests of these big companies. I do not think this should be used as an excuse to get out under one month. That is why I have stipulated in the legislative proposal that it should be done at the explicit request of the companies. I'll see to it that way. It's not for nothing in the law. There is a period of one month. It may be longer, up to three months. This must be done at the explicit request of the company. I will follow what happens at that point. Mr De Liefde says that he has one other concern, namely that telecom providers could come to terms with this new provision by concluding contracts for up to two years, as with consumers, for three, four or five years. I have also received the signals he has mentioned to a very limited extent. I've received one signal. I do not think that is enough to be very worried about it, but it is a signal. Furthermore, we have stipulated that telecom providers are always obliged to offer at least one year's contract. So they can't just offer contracts for three, four or five years. They also have to offer a one-year contract. However, I can imagine that there would be a problem if what Mr.Love fears would develop. I don't expect that last one, by the way. It seems useful to me that we follow these developments in the Ministry of EZ, also in consultation with the ACM. If there is reason for us to be concerned, as Mr.Love is already somewhat concerned, then we will share it with the Chamber and see what we will do with it. I expect companies to be able to control this themselves, also in view of the fact that they are very capable of defending their own rights and of thinking carefully about their contracts. Companies think about their electricity contracts, gas contracts, telecom contracts and other contracts. I also think that telecom providers will not fly off the hook. But if it's any different, we'll talk about this more closely. This is where I dealt with the issue of switching thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u45	I welcome the Minister's commitment; thank you for that. Can the Minister also promise that this will be closely monitored in the coming weeks and months? We're handling the bill now. The signals came after the bill had just been sent to the Chamber. Market players react to that. Can the Minister promise that he will be watching this closely in the near future? Precisely because now the propositions are and are being developed by the market players.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u46	Yeah, I guess there's no reason to wait to track what's happening on the market, along with the ACM. From the moment we do it, we must do it right. I make that commitment to Mr De Love, through you, Mr President. I'll get on the cables now. Mr De Love has started that and I would like to respond to it. I believe that the proposal we are now putting forward is a good one for shifting the cables. What's the status? If you own land and have to lay telecom cables, you are obliged to tolerate this happening. You can't negotiate about it and you can't stop it; you have to tolerate it. On the other hand, if the owner of the land wants to do something with it, the person who put the cable there must also change it so that the owner can use his land. He's entitled to that. That's what we call lying around. You can put the cable down at no cost, but it doesn't happen. That is a good starting point, but there were two bottlenecks. There is a discussion about legal property and economic property. With Article 5.8 we are now clarifying, which makes it clear that anyone who has acquired the right of use in the way that is currently laid down in the legislative proposal has a position vis-à-vis the telecom provider, as I have just said. In addition, you also have the situation that there are large-scale projects. It may be that Rijkswaterstaat builds a road or that ProRail builds a railway line. Then it is often the case that the construction takes place simultaneously with the creation of ownership relations, because this construction is socially very desirable. The realization of the changed ownership relationships is already agreed, but it takes time to achieve it all. With the agreement of the owner, that road or railway line will already be built. Then it's about the position of ProRail or Rijkswaterstaat. What we now regulate with Article 5.9 is that in those cases ProRail and Rijkswaterstaat can act as if they were the owner of the land. At the moment, however, companies have a problem with this, because at the moment the situation is that, as a result of the fact that they are not yet formally owners, the costs of relocating the cables are often taken on their own account. But I really didn't mean to. I understand that the companies prefer that ProRail and Rijkswaterstaat bear those costs for their own account. I think it is in our interest that the telecom companies, which are allowed to lay the cables on the ground of another, accept that they remove the cables if that land is needed, for example for ProRail or Rijkswaterstaat. Then Rijkswaterstaat or ProRail can do with that land what is in the general interest. I understand the attitude of the companies. Those network operators prefer not to pay, but it is reasonable for them to pay, because of the principle we have established with each other. That is why Article 5.9 lays down that. I also understand that the assent of the Chamber can be obtained for this purpose tonight. So much for the cables and the pipes. Then I'll be on the phone directory. Some figures have gone over the table with regard to the use of the Telephone Guide. The Telephone Guide is currently being used less. You can see the use of the paper Phone Guide decreasing from year to year. There are a certain number of people who use it once a year and there are a number of people who use it once a month or more, but that number of people is decreasing. However, there are still people who use the Telephone Guide. It is also still commercially possible to distribute the paper Telephone Guide. In any case, this will be done until the year 2017. We're going through a transition period. If you have a sticker on your door that you don't want to receive an advertising post, you don't get a Golden Guide or a Telephone Guide. That's the system. However, you will receive a note in your bus, so that you can still get the guide delivered if you want it. There are also pilots in different areas where everyone gets a note saying: if you want the Phone Guide, please let me know. So we're in transition. The company that releases the guide can still make money and wants to continue to do so until the year 2017. In the spring of 2017, that company will consider whether it wants to continue doing so, even from the year 2018. It seems very useful to me that I understand the company and talk to them to see what comes out of it. I can also involve the general interest as expressed here by Mrs Mulder, among others. I see, therefore, whether action on my part should be considered as a result of what that company is going to do. I don't want to anticipate that, but I think I should keep an eye on that. In any case, it must always be the case that anyone who wants to have the numbering information available must be able to get it. However, there are more and more people who do not want to give that information anymore. This means that there is less information in the guide and less information is available via the internet and via telephone request. However, the information of all those who do wish to provide their information must remain accessible. For anyone using the Internet, that information is easily accessible. People who do not use the Internet can call the subscriber information service. Then you get a phone number and you get that number. So you have that information, but you have to pay for it. That's the way it is. What I'm doing here is carrying out a motion that the Chamber has adopted. I think it is necessary to carry out that motion, because that is the starting point of this cabinet. I only do not carry out adopted motions if I think there are serious arguments not to do so. Then I won't make a motion. Otherwise, I'll carry out motions that have been passed. Well, in this case, I do, too. I think the implementation is going in a responsible way, also thanks to the company that still makes money from that paper Phone Guide. If that changes, we may be talking about it again, but at the moment there is no current problem in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u47	At the moment, the Telephone Guide is still free for people, but if only a mobile service is left, it's all not free anymore, the Minister states. We wonder at the CDA whether it is still possible to conclude in 2017 that a print is still being sent to people who need it. And is it still free? That's what people want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u48	I don't want to anticipate that. We have consciously accepted that KPN has issued that obligation and no longer wished to do so. We have also said, on the basis of the Chamber's motion, that we are going to focus on the Internet and on the telephone service. At the moment there is still the possibility to use the paper guide. As Mrs Mulder said, this is also being used to a great extent. A company sees the possibility of doing so commercially. In any case, until 2017, we have the situation as Mrs Mulder wishes. We should not anticipate what will happen afterwards in 2016. First of all, I want to see what conclusions the company that publishes the Telephone Guide itself draws. Then I want to see whether we still have some sort of action to take. At the moment, even in accordance with that motion, I am not taking any other action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u49	Is the Minister prepared to investigate the need for the paper telephone directory at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year? Can the Minister promise that he will see what this will look like for next year? This is a concern that many people live with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u50	No. The company issuing the Phone Guide said it wants to see what it can do from the beginning of 2017, based on the situation at the time. That gives us the opportunity to wait until then to see what the situation is like, whether there is a problem and, if so, how we could possibly resolve it with our involvement. I do not want to anticipate this, because otherwise I am acting contrary to the spirit of this Chamber's motion and because the problem does not yet arise. For me, therefore, the relevant date in this respect is in the beginning of the year 2017. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Oosenbrug also explained what spoofing is at your request. I did not get the impression for a moment that the problem of spoofing, which was raised by Mrs Oosenbrug in particular, would be an insignificant issue. I find it very disturbing that people are pretending to be someone else to cheat or bully people. This can have very nasty, unpleasant consequences: for young people, for old people and for everyone. You're being deliberately misplaced. So I think spoofing is a nasty phenomenon. That is why I also propose that we take action against this. In terms of texting and calling, we can do so because it is technically possible. We can see what is happening there and we can make arrangements for it as we have now. I think that's an adequate response. It's forbidden. If it does happen, we can take action against it. It is much harder to do something about spoofing in the field of e-mail and internet traffic. This form is much more difficult to control and takes place in different ways, including from abroad. So I do not see any possibility at the moment of acting against the phenomenon of spoofing on the Internet in a similar way as we are now proposing with regard to telephony and SMS. I don't see that possibility, but I can see the problem. I will follow what is happening in this area and whether there is any possibility of doing something about it at any time. I can tell Mrs Oosenbrug that at least we are doing what we can now. We will follow developments with the same concern as she has expressed. We will see what may change in the future in this respect. I think it is important to keep an eye on this and say that Mrs Oosenbrug and thus the Chamber are happy to attend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u51	I also asked whether the piece of this in the bill could become technologically neutral. Now text messages are explicitly mentioned, but we in the Chamber have more or less agreed that we would try to work as much technology-neutral as possible. Do I understand from your words that that is not possible in this particular case? Then I accept that. Or could we still think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u52	I think it is desirable to do what Mrs Oosenbrug is asking, but I cannot do that. I can't put something in the law that I can't live up to. I can do this, but I can't do the other. Maybe we can do it in the future. We shall see how that develops. I'll follow it, too, but I can't do it right now. So it is as Mrs Oosenbrug feared. Mrs Oosenbrug had another question on that point. If I have not been complete on this point, I assume she will come back to that. I welcome the fact that I still have something to answer at this point, but I do not have it in my notes. Oh yes, Mrs Oosenbrug said that a number of companies simply offer that spoofing opportunity. She asked what their story was in the consultation. As she probably feared, they have not responded at all. They felt they were in the middle of something dubious. The one who did the most, the website spheer.nl, is now out of the blue. The impression is that in total about five companies, a bit of peripherals, saw this as an opportunity to earn money. It's gonna be a criminal activity now. I take it that we have responded adequately to this point. I dealt with Mrs Oosenbrug's other points, as did Mrs Gesthuizen's and Mr De Liefde's. Mrs Klever and I differed on one point, but agreed on the other. Like them I cherish that special fact; I am pleased with it. I have also dealt with Mrs Mulder's points. I take it that I have responded adequately, but I would like to hear that from the spokesmen in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u53	At least you have made a good effort to do so. I do not see any of the spokesmen moving and conclude that your summary is correct. This put an end to the first term of office. We shall continue with the second term on the side of the Chamber. We maintain the same order of speakers as in the first term, so Mrs Mulder has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I would also like to thank him for joining the CDA Group's amendment on earthquake compensation. I think that's another important point for the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u55	Let me remind you that the Minister left the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u56	Yeah, I'm happy about that. The Minister explained his argument that compensation should not always take place automatically. He believes that this is up to the market players. However, I would like to hear from him whether he has considered making compensation always fully automatic. The Minister wants to prevent three months of transition from becoming the standard. He made a clear commitment to keep an eye on that. Perhaps, after a year, he could take a look at how that happens in practice and inform the Chamber about it. The Minister states that the paper Telephone Guide is still commercially attractive and is still in place, but we are going to abolish it next year. I'm worried about that anyway. The CDA Group very much wants people to be able to get that numbering information at any time; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that after the end of 2017, the choice for issuing the printed telephone directory, whether national or not or only in certain regions, lies with the market;]] [[Whereas this could mean that, after the end of 2017, a telephone directory is not available to residents who do not have the internet or are difficult to handle;]] [[Whereas the government considers the legally secured telephone subscriber information service to be an alternative, and it is important for accessibility that residents be able to use it without obstacles and costs;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, at the time the paper telephone directory disappears, residents can use a telephone subscriber information service without obstacles and costs, with explicit information to vulnerable groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34271-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u57	I'm tasting everything. My political feeling tells me that this could cost money. Has the CDA Group considered the costs involved? Has she considered how she intends to cover this in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u58	I had hoped that today I would hear from the Minister how he intends to respond to these concerns. However, I did not hear that. I would therefore like to begin by listening to the Minister's reply. My group wants this interest to be safeguarded. If that will ultimately lead to costs, we need to look at what funds we can find for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u59	I welcome Mrs Mulder's last commitment. It will therefore inform me and my colleagues after the Minister's reaction, and depending on that response, how she intends to cover what is being asked in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u60	I hope that the VVD Group too would like everyone to have access to the songs and that this will not create obstacles for people. That must not happen in the regions either. It would have ordained the VVD group if it had just stressed that interest here, rather than just talking about the pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u61	I don't have the motion in front of me on paper yet, but I listened very carefully when Mrs Mulder read the motion. I'm not much of a paper phone guide, and I also put a no/no sticker on my door. However, I understand that people just need a paper phone directory. Suppose there's a telephone service that people can call for those numbers. Would that be enough for the CDA? Do I understand the motion that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u62	I asked the Minister if the following could be an option. Suppose, for example, people send a ticket back to the company that is currently running this. That way you know if next year's need is still there. Perhaps the Minister could go into that further. In this way, he can also assess the chances for this. I am fine with paper, but I can also imagine that it will eventually become a telephone service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u63	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal seeks to improve consumers through compensation in the event of malfunctions. However, if the legislative proposal is not amended, I believe it will lead to a deterioration rather than an improvement. Indeed, telecom companies are already compensating more than this proposal would provide for in the law. In order to improve this, I'd like to table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the minimum period of disruption of 12 hours is so wide that there is no or no compensation for most disturbances;]] [[calls on the Government, in the Telecommunications Collection Act, to reduce the minimum duration of disruption to six hours as regards the obligation to compensate for disturbances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34271-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u64	Mrs Gesthuizen noted that in an earlier motion I asked for compensation after four hours. That's right. I would also like to see compensation paid after four hours. However, that motion was rejected by the Chamber. That is why I have now cut the 12-hour deadline by half to six hours. I hope I can get a majority for this motion. There are just a lot of people who cannot do their jobs if there is no telecom connection. Of course, the twelve-hour period after which it will be compensated will be far too long. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the proposed compensation scheme of one-thirtieth part of the monthly amount per day is disproportionate to the experienced inconvenience to the consumer;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Telecommunications Collection Act a compensation obligation in the event of disturbances with a minimum compensation of one-third of the monthly amount per hour of malfunction, up to a maximum of 30 hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34271-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u65	Finally, I find it incomprehensible that the Minister does not want to legally lay down that the cause of a malfunction must pay compensation. Now we are faced with the situation in which a telecom provider who has no control over a network is financially paying for problems with such a network. A network manager can also take advantage of this. Those who suffer from this are, of course, the consumers again. I am very sorry about that. I hope that the House will take a different view on this and support my amendment to incorporate the cause principle into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u66	Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. They're both about frequencies, first and foremost the AM frequency. In a previous general consultation, the Minister has agreed that the licence for a national AM frequency can be granted if a request is made, but I did not read about it in the National Frequency Plan. Does that promise still stand? I have failed to ask that in the first term, which is why I am asking again. Then I come to the FM and the extension or auction of the frequencies. The Minister said to look at it all again, but could he not say clearly to the Chamber what his criteria are in order to be able to extend it? Then the market players know what they are up to and can adapt their plans to it, and then the Chamber will be able to go home with peace of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply, particularly on spoofing. In addition to the fact that it is not a very nice way for criminals to cheat, it also means a lot of misery in the field of cyberbullying. So I'm glad that's been incorporated into this law and that we can offer our children a safer environment on the Internet. Thank you for that. Despite the answer on the compensation scheme and the compensation obligation of the wholesale customer in particular, I am not quite reassured yet. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be a compensation scheme for failures of more than 12 hours that offer compensation to the consumer;]] [[whereas it must be paid by the telecom companies to the consumer, but the reason for the malfunction may lie with the wholesale party and there is no provision for the wholesale customer to pass on the compensation obligation to the network provider, which may lead to unreasonable situations and distortions of competition;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the implementation of the compensation scheme in this respect and, if necessary, to intervene or request the ACM to do so, if the development of the compensation scheme is unreasonable in the relationship between wholesale customers and network providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. dossier/34271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u68	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear first-term response and his commitment to a number of questions from my group. I would just like to respond briefly to Mrs Mulder's point about the paper Telephone Guide. I interrupted her. We had a brief debate on the matter. I am not against the fact that information remains available to everyone in the Netherlands and that a certain provision is being made for this. For the choice of whether that provision should be financed by the government or by the market, we will be later, probably towards 2017 or in 2017. The question to Mrs Mulder was with a wink, but everyone can feel that a free number costs money. That money is either paid by the person who calls the number to obtain information or by the person who makes his information available for that number or the government takes that account. That is the reality we stand for. I think we should just acknowledge it with each other. I think Mrs Mulder knows what's going on. Let's try to get out of there in the direction of 2017, based on good information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u69	I still have a supplementary question. If we are indeed going to stop with the paper Telephone Guide, which is a wish of both the VVD and the Labour Party, this will save money. For example, you could use that saving to open up a telephone number. Could the VVD agree with that? Then it gets something and the money released can be reinvested. Can we think each other through in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u70	A long time ago we had two, the Golden Guide and the Telephone Guide. In the Telephone Guide were all private numbers and in the Golden Guide were all commercial numbers. The demand for both fell, the company merged it and attached a earning model to it. We now have something like the Internet, so these developments are going pretty fast. So there is less and less need for that paper Telephone Guide. I don't care. If after 2017 there is a earning model to publish the paper Phone Guide, I say: go ahead and do it most of all. I acknowledge, like other parties, that it is important that general personal numbering information should be accessible and available. However, with regard to companies, I wonder whether the government should pay the bill for making the telephone number of the restaurant around the corner available. That doesn't make any sense to me at first. Let us look at how we can properly implement this, but let us also recognise that there is no such thing as free numbering information. Someone pays and takes that bill. My institution isn't that the government has to take that account automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u71	This ended the second term of office. The Minister indicated that he could reply immediately and comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u72	Mr. Chairman. I still owe Mrs Gesthuizen an answer about the AM stations. She knows the middle wave isn't switched off yet. Mid-wave authorisation holders shall also be given the opportunity to renew their authorisation for a period of five years. However, given the space available, new parties will also be given the opportunity to obtain an AM licence. It looks at small-scale use, for which opportunities are created. As Mrs Gesthuizen says, this requires a change in the frequency plan. She says she hasn't seen that yet. That's right; that's what's gonna happen. We are going to change the frequency plan and include the point made by Mrs Gesthuizen in the way I have just said. Mrs Gesthuizen asked to clarify what criteria are used in digitalisation. But I don't think it's okay to put that ball with me. The commercial broadcasting companies believe that there should not be auctioning but renewal, because of the digital importance. Then they must also be able to make it clear to me what is the importance of digitalisation on the basis of which it should be extended. I'm gathering that information. I have to do my best to get them to give that information. Then I will also guide them with questionnaires to ensure that this information is finally put into the right form, so that it can also be used. I will look again at the way this is done so that I can make sure that what is going on can contribute to the implementation of the motion. That's my intention, but I don't want to put the ball on myself. It is really necessary for the companies that have said that this is necessary for digitalisation to tell me what the digitalisation interest is, how they see it, what they do about it and what they want to invest in it. Next, I will assess that. This is their thesis. They have to come up with the information, and I'll assess it. So I want to do it as I said it at first and now in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u73	I understand that the Minister is not entirely satisfied with the way the process is going. Can I challenge the Minister to tell us exactly what is the bottleneck in the dialogue with the market players or in the emergence of this dialogue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u74	I already find it difficult for them to say that there is a digital interest and that they do not then give me any information when I ask them to make that clear. I find it remarkable that I really have to do my best to get that information. I'm finding some of the information isn't there yet. The information that is available is, in part, insufficient. Those who have to advise me have given me the opportunity to contact those companies and to encourage them to provide additional information. That way I tried to get the information to a decent level. That's being worked on right now. In the end, it is not yet sufficiently clear what the digitalisation interest is. A statement has been made, but it must now be realised. I help the parties involved, but the ball is with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u75	Is the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself in consultation with the market players?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u76	No. My thesis was that there had to be auction. Their claim was that there should be a prolongation, because digitisation is a ground in the law to renew that licence. The Chamber wants me to extend that permit. I am prepared to do so, but it must be shown that that land exists. That must be done by those who have put forward the statement. They are now given the opportunity to make that happen. I really think we should leave that ball with them. I have therefore dealt with the two points raised by Mrs Gesthuizen. Mrs Mulder asked: the compensation scheme that is now being applied, namely for 12 hours a day a 30th of the month, is on request, have you also considered doing so automatically? When you come up with a bill like that, you look at all the possibilities and consider them. However, I think you should take a minimum position when prescribing these kinds of things to companies. You don't have to take care of more than you have to. I felt it necessary for customers to be compensated if they cause nuisance or nuisance and if they fail to fulfil their obligations to customers for some of the time. They shall be compensated for each day on which they are not delivered. That compensation shall be proportionate to the monthly amount paid. I think compensation on demand is the right lower limit. Businesses have the opportunity to go there or to do so automatically. It's up to companies to decide. They can also offer it in kind. They can offer customers a choice. That's up to them. We have set a minimum regulation, and I should like to leave it at that. Mrs Mulder also spoke about the three-month period. It agrees that, even in the case of tacit renewal for business contacts, for companies, one month's notice is used, with the exception that I have formulated. However, she does not want that three-month period to become a reality, and she asks me to continue to do so. I will continue to follow that, as she has asked. At the point of the paper guide I went. Mrs. Mulder made a motion on it. I agree with Mr De Love's reasoning on this point. The final provision in the future is the Internet supply. A lot of people, and more and more people, use the Internet for their information. This will continue to be the case in the future for telephone numbers. That's all that's left. In any case, during the transitional period we still have the paper guide. In addition, for a fee there is the possibility to request telephone information. It's gonna stay up. The costs incurred may be passed on. The law provides that no more than reasonable costs may be charged. That's what's happening right now. In addition to these possibilities, there is the Telephone Guide at the moment. We'll see how this develops. This will be involved in the year 2017. It is not necessary for the Court to rule on this at the moment. I myself do not think it is desirable and therefore advise against the Agnes Mulder motion in part No. 12. In the Klever motion in part No. 14 it is stated that the twelve-hour period I came with is not good and that it is also not good that I want to compensate one-third of the monthly amount per day. I think that last one's okay. If you pay €30 per month and you have one day of interference, it is very logical that you will be compensated for a 30th of that month. I do not go along with this motion that it should be one-third of the monthly amount per hour and therefore advise against it. In the Klever motion in part No. 13 the government is invited to reduce the minimum duration of disruption from 12 hours to 6 hours. I do not think Mrs Klever has put forward any arguments as to why the twelve-hour deadline would not be right. I have argued that it is not reasonable for companies to set in motion every time for too many minor failures that bureaucratic process to compensate, which is there anyway. For this reason, compensation is only made in the event of major malfunctions. That is why I said that the 12 hours is a reasonable middle in this case. Mrs Klever does not put forward any arguments for her six-hour statement which underpins it. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u77	In my first speech, I spent about half my speaking time on the duration of interference and the nuisance caused by malfunctions. So much for the arguments. I agree with the Minister that you shouldn't compensate for every wipe. People can handle it if there's 10 minutes of interference. However, many small businesses depend on the Internet, as I said in the first term, for example for payments and for presenting documentation. Many people depend on the Internet for their work, for example for teleworking and telephone calls. Six o'clock is almost a whole day's work for those people. I wouldn't just call that "I'm gonna wipe." It seems very reasonable to me that there should be compensation for disturbances of more than six hours. It's a huge damage when you have a small business and your mechanics can't work for six hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u78	There are several possibilities for communication. There are mobile and fixed networks, there is telephone and there is internet. If anything falls out somewhere, there's usually something else that works. If you suffer damage as a result of the loss of a connection and it is possible under the contract to file a claim for damages, I will not stand in any way in the way of that claim. You can do that. If you don't agree with what the network administrator is doing to you, you can go to court to claim the damage. If we are to make a compensation scheme now, it must be proportionate to the amount you pay. If you only pay an amount of €30 per month, it is not reasonable to ask for a very high compensation in case there is an x-number of hours no connection. That compensation should be in a reasonable proportion to the amount you pay per month. I think that a compensation of one 30th a day is good to defend and reasonable. It's only meant as compensation and not as compensation. I have said a lot about this. There are always multiple possibilities to communicate. Together we try to have it all as well as possible in terms of infrastructure, but you can never rule out malfunctions 100%. Companies profile themselves by offering the best possible product. We are giving them an additional incentive with the compensation scheme that we are currently introducing. I think that is the reasonable protection that is needed for consumers and business customers. I think it is a reasonable arrangement on all sides that is included in the legislative proposal. That is why I am defending this and advise against both motions by Mrs Klever, which call for a different line. I'll come to the motion in part No. 15 by Mrs Oosenbrug. You have a network administrator, a telecom provider who uses that network and a customer. The customer may have a direct relationship with a network company, but he may also have a relationship with a telecom provider who has entered into a wholesale contract with the network company. Mrs Oosenbrug says that it should be considered whether there are things that are not going well in the relationship between telecom providers without a network and telecom providers with a network, the network operators, or whether there is not some form of abuse of power or any form of unreasonable exploitation of power relations between these companies. She's asking me to keep an eye on that. I'm willing to do that. So I'll talk to the ACM about that. It is also the task of the ACM to monitor market conditions. I will take this point of interest from Mrs Oosenbrug. In view of this, I should like to comment on her motion in part No. 15 to the Chamber. In what I have put forward, I think I have also included Mr.De Love's points. Thank you, Mr President, and through you the spokesmen, for handling this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-12.u79	The thanks are mutual, I say on behalf of the Chamber to the Minister. The legislative proposal and the amendments and motions tabled will be voted on next Tuesday. With thanks to everyone, I close the sitting.
