ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to inform the House that Mrs Visser has tabled the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fisher/Ronnes (21501-33), No. 619), which she submitted to the VSO Transport Council, maintains. I propose to authorise the holding of a memo consultation with shorthand report on Monday 23 January 2017 from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. of the Permanent Committee for the Interior on the initiative paper of Members Bouwmeester and Oosenbrug: "Lobby in daylight." I propose to add the debate on the European Summit on 15 and 16 December 2016 to the agenda of the Chamber, using speaking time of: 10 minutes for the VVD and the PvdA; seven minutes for SP, CDA, PVV and D66; five minutes for the Christian Union, GroenLinks, the SGP, the PvdD and 50PLUS; two and a half minutes for the Kuzu/Öztürk Group and the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group; One and a half minutes for Houwers, Klein, Monasch and Van Vliet. I would also like to add to the agenda: the legislative proposal Amendment of the Integration Act and some other laws relating to the addition of the participation declaration component to the integration examination and the legal establishment of social guidance (34584); the legislative proposal Amendment of social security legislation, the structure of implementation organisation work and income, the Study Finance Act 2000, the Study Finance Act BES, the Education Contribution and School Costs Act and the General Law income-related schemes relating to the inclusion of a basis for termination of benefits, study funding and allowance in participation in a terrorist organisation (34577). I also propose to appoint Mr Groot, Mr Merkies, Mr Koolmees, Mr Bruins and Mr Grashoff in the Committee on Parliamentary Interrogation for Fiscal Constructions. I also propose that it be noted that the work of the interrogation committee is subject to the Temporary Protocol on parliamentary interrogation. I inform the Chamber that the Permanent Committee on Social Affairs and Employment has elected its chairman, Mr Bosman. On Tuesday, I propose that we also vote on the motions tabled at the legislative consultation on the Media budget line and in the note-to-note discussion on the MIRT. I propose to add to the agenda: the VSO on the Authority's report on the stress test derivatives housing corporations, with the Member Van Vliet as the first speaker; VAO Early and early school education, with the member Van Meenen as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u2	I call Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are about to deal with the budget of Security and Justice. That must be done carefully. We have heard that Mr El Bakraoui would have travelled to Brussels from Turkey unseen through Schiphol because the services in the Netherlands had missed a message. Now we hear again from the media that Mr El Bakraoui would have paid bribes to the Turkish authorities to be deported to the Netherlands instead of to Belgium. That would mean that the Netherlands is some sort of safe haven for terrorists. So it seems that people know what the Netherlands is doing with information about terrorism, namely nothing. I would like to receive a letter from the Minister responding to this news and at least an answer to the following questions. Is this message correct? If so, was the Minister of Security and Justice aware of this and, if so, when? When were the Belgians aware of this and informed the Netherlands about it? Shouldn't our minister have informed the Chamber about this? What does the report say about other expulsions from Turkey to the Netherlands? How many people have since been expelled from Turkey to the Netherlands? Does the Minister have any signs that this is common? What's he gonna do to bring this up with his Turkish counterpart? Is contact with Belgium about terror difficult because the cabinet has cut back on the liaison officer in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u4	Support for these questions. We too were shocked by this. On 4 May 2016, I asked in the Council of Europe written questions to the Committee of Ministers on the expulsion of Mr El Bakroui and asked whether there was any joint consultation between the Belgian, Dutch and Turkish governments on what happened. The question of whether they have jointly assessed this has actually not been answered. I would like to know whether these three governments have talked together about the things that went wrong during the whole process and get an answer to that in the letter. If there were any conclusions, I want to know what they were and if there were no conclusions, I want to know why they didn't even sit down at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u5	Do I understand why you're talking about written questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u6	I referred to written questions on item No. 705 of the Council of Europe, dated 4 May 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u7	The Council of Europe. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u8	This shocking case does indeed raise many questions. Therefore, support for the questions and support for the D66 Group's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u9	Also support from the SP for the letter on these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u10	Also on behalf of the VVD support for a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u11	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u12	I propose that the stenogram of this part of the meeting be transferred to the cabinet. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I was standing here asking for a letter from the Prime Minister about the VVD's report that the DBA Act has been postponed, which is not the case. Today we would receive a letter on this matter before 12.00 p.m. containing an answer to a number of questions. We didn't receive that letter, but we'll have a hearing on the DBA Act in about an hour. I would like to ask whether we can receive this letter from the Prime Minister and/or the Secretary of State for Finance with the answer to these questions as soon as possible. If the letter is not there tomorrow at the settlement, I consider asking you to bring him to the Chamber. It is a question of whether the law is valid and whetherzzp'ers can get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-7.u14	I will send this section of the meeting to the cabinet as a matter of urgency. This brings us to the end of the scheme of work.
