ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome all Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery. The next item is the commemoration of the attack in Nice on the evening of 14 July 2016. I would like to welcome the ambassador of France, Mr Philippe Lalliot, and Minister Henk Kamp, on behalf of the cabinet. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. Quatorze juillet. The national holiday of the French. A day traditionally marked by freedom, equality and brotherhood, but on which a black shadow has fallen. On July 14, 2016, a man with a truck drove into a boulevard full of people. They were together to celebrate and watch the fireworks. Families with children, sometimes with grandpas and grandmothers, groups of friends, tourists who were nearby on the campsite. What should have been a festive, warm summer evening, with the Mediterranean rustling in the background, ended in chaos and panic. The attack killed 86 innocent people. Over 400 people were injured, many of them signed for life. The same goes for the next of kin. Together with the President of the First Chamber, I wished the French Parliament much strength and strength in dealing with all losses, now that France has once again been so deeply affected. It is bizarre and sad to have to open the parliamentary year with a memorial. It says a lot about what our world looks like right now. Because the attack in Nice wasn't the only violent incident this summer. In Germany, too, people were killed and injured in attacks in Munich and Ansbach, among others. In Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray in France, the priest Jacques Hamel, who devoted his whole life to connecting the various groups in society, was murdered cold-blooded. And in the Turkish city of Gaziantep more than 50 people died in an attack, including more than 20 children. They are acts of terror that also have an impact on our society. They affect our uninhibitedness; give us the feeling that we are nowhere really safe; make us perhaps look around a little more often, on national holidays, in large crowds or in public spaces. But fear must never prevail. We rely on our parliamentary democracy, built on freedom, equality and brotherhood. And to the debate, open and respectful to the other. That's our foundation. We'll always hold on to that. I now give the floor to Minister Kamp on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President, Mr. Ambassador. What began as a holiday became a day of sorrow: the 14th of July. Just on the day when the French celebrated their freedom, some of them were deprived of freedom forever by a man in a truck whose aim was to kill as many partying people as possible. 86 people lost their lives, hundreds were injured and many more remained in great sorrow. The attack also shocked the Netherlands. We are once again in mourning with France, with the French, who had shown themselves to be resilient and fighting earlier this year, who were not paralyzed by fear after the attacks in Paris, but continued to visit the streets and terraces. After the attack in Nice, the French had to show their resilience again. As difficult as it was, the Promenade des Anglais didn't stay empty for long. That is also the only way: to continue, in science and trust that our strength and connectedness are greater than the hatred and madness of those who want to disrupt our lives. Our thoughts are with the victims, the next of kin and the French people. Right after the attack, Prime Minister Rutte handed over his condolences to the French government on behalf of the cabinet. Our thoughts are also with the victims and relatives of other incidents of violence and attacks this summer. You mentioned them, Madam President, the places where people felt safe but they were not. The atrocities that took place there are hardly any words. That's why a moment of silence fits now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	I will suspend the sitting for a few moments so that you can convey your condolences to the Ambassador.
