ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u1	I welcome again the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment and, of course, the Secretary of State, who has now been appointed. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling. You must either keep an eye on the speaking time yourself or pass on the amount of time you want to consume to the committee griffin in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u2	Mr. Chairman. I get to bite off the beginning. It's a good thing you're here, too, and I'm gonna take a look at the rulers. This is the last budget of this cabinet. Infrastructure and the environment is a very nice subject anyway. It's very wide. That will be evident today, also from my input. I have tried to raise a number of points. I start by looking back at 2012. Then the Structure Vision Infrastructure and Space (SVIR) came into being. That was this minister's policy paper. Earlier this year this was evaluated by Berenschot. That evaluation shows a few things that fall my way, if I may put it that way. There has been a lot of emphasis on decentralising tasks; you are talking about whether you are not going over them. In that evaluation you see as a comment that this is not 100% well thought out, that the connections between these scale levels are not always clear, that there has been little monitoring or it works like that. I remember when I was in the First Chamber, that "decentral, unless" was the mantra, mostly of the VVD. When you see that evaluation, it doesn't seem to be a guarantee of success. I'd like to hear how the Minister looks back on that structural vision. Is she happy about it afterwards? Have these thirteen subjects been brought to their attention? Does the Minister agree with the conclusion of the evaluation that there could have been more coherence? If so, how? Between now and 2020, we are in an Environmental Law Process, for which I do not wish to congratulate the Minister for the first time, because that was a mega-business that was not permanently visible to the outside world. This also indicates that she does not constantly feel the need to ruffle on the drum to let us know that she is active in this domain, but she has been. That has resulted in a shell that looks very good. Soon we will talk about the General Management Measures that will give substance to that casco house. That is the effect of the law and then there will be an introduction law. In itself, this is a good process. Under that Environmental Act, we need a National Environmental Vision. Although the Minister will probably not be the one to write it, I would like to ask her what to do with the knowledge of the present. This should include coastal areas, peat meadows, the balance between agriculture and nature, shrinking regions and the mobility of the future. This vision should also cover what the Environment and Infrastructure Council (Rli) wrote about in the Mainports report, to which I believe the Minister has responded with patience. That advice is a bit separate from the standard brainport-mainport vision for the future, with more Schiphol, more ports and more IT centers. I'd like to hear another reflection on that. It should also be more about environmental management, so that the state coordination scheme is not used to create large wind farms on land while the people themselves come up with initiatives, such as in Drenthe. And it has to be about the climate agreement. We have the ratification law of the climate agreement in place. How does the Secretary of State see that? What does she think of the climate law proposed by GroenLinks and the Labour Party? Is that a model? Could you decorate it as the Delta Act looks, transforming the SDE+ into a climate fund and having a climate commissioner à la Delta Commissioner? That in itself works pretty well. Of course, you can plan for the longer term. Investment must also be made. Businesses must go along with it, and it needs a longer planning horizon. How does the Secretary of State see this and what is her pace with regard to the climate agreement? Does she have the graph from the Rli's report entitled Rich without CO2 in mind? In doing so, the built environment quickly becomes CO2 neutral and the high-temperature industries, i.e. the steel industry and petrochemicals, go a little later that way, because the replacement investments there are slowing down and the pace is therefore slightly different. Does she have anything to do with that? Can the state-wide circular economy program hitch a bit at the pace of the climate law? Does that make sense? How much root and stick do the climate agreement and the follow-up measures need in the eyes of the Secretary of State? In recent years a lot of transport has been done. I once asked written questions about the so-called modal shift. I do not know what the Dutch term is for that, but I can give you an example. You normally transport yourself by train, but by means of a tax incentive you decide to transport yourself by boat from now on. That can be about people, but it can also be about goods. You should look at the ideal mix for both aviation, rail and road transport, as well as for water transport for people and goods, if you put both accessibility and sustainability as criteria. Is there any way you can get out of this? Isn't that something for the Planning Office for the Environment (PBL)? Maybe that's gonna let go of a couple of scenarios? That would be very useful in view of the challenges we face. The Infrastructure Fund has been weak in recent years, with two billion for a tunnel and a bypass near Utrecht, while we could have solved a lot of bottlenecks in the country. I got a map today from the ANWB with all these bottlenecks. The question then arises: could we not have dealt with the Infrastructure Fund more effectively? I also always notice that almost the entire budget is legally compulsory. That makes it difficult for a Member of Parliament, especially one of the opposition, to amend something. I find this debate pleasant, interesting and important, but in the MIRT debate, in which we are talking about roads, canals and railways, you as an opposition member are in fact simply without a chance, because everything has been fixed for a long time and cannot be otherwise. I do not necessarily need to get my way with a road or a canal, but it does restrict the participation in the decision-making process on this country's infrastructure. I say this because the room for manoeuvre in other budgets tends to seem slightly larger. There are many road projects that cause nuisance, such as the A8 at Zaandam and the A9 in Amsterdam-Zuidoost. People are really freaked out by the noise. I shall come back to that in the MIRT debate, otherwise I will go into too much detail. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention once again to what a mega-project it is and how very close it is to inhabited areas. Almost from Diemen to the AMC makes people crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u3	Mr Smaling said that in an MIRT debate or budget, it was annoying that everything was legally compulsory. However, there is a simple solution. If Mr Smaling thinks that more money should go to infra, he can amend the budget to make more money available for infra. I have seen a number of amendments, but I have missed such an amendment. Can Mr Smaling indicate whether he is going to file it tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u4	Are you saying that I transfer budget from other budgets to the I and M budgets? I would then have to arrange that through my spokesman in the General Financial Reviews. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u5	Yes. I think I missed that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u6	Let me put it this way: we think infrastructure is extremely important, but like the VVD, other parties and our constituents, we consider much more important than there are affordable. We have therefore chosen not to do so. The Driving Schools Act, the WRM, we like to see our way. Can the Minister say anything about this? When will she send her letter of amendment to the Chamber? Is there anything in there that the SP has already sent in its direction in its amendment form? What's gonna happen to the cabs at Schiphol? Is the Secretary of State going to change the law? Is that possible with a rather small municipality like Haarlemmermeer? Does it have the capacity to change the General Local Regulation so that you can better maintain it? It's one thing or the other, and something has to happen quickly. The report of the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy (KiM) is out. It shows that car traffic increased by 22% in 2015. That's one thing. The SP does not think that we can do enough to build up more asphalt to deal with this problem. If you try to please those who travel by road and those who travel by train at the same time, it is still a problem that you do not do well with supply and demand management. This applies to more modes of transport. If your intention is to get more people on the train, you shouldn't be expanding or broadening the national road network at the same time. Something must therefore be done in the area of payment to use. My party is in the middle of watching that. We are not ready at the moment to say that we must introduce it tomorrow, but we are going to use it in the coming time to come up with a plan to pay for use. The vehicle tax is based on an average of 16,000 kilometres per year, while the average car use is 12,000 kilometres per year. So the first picture is that more than half of the people will benefit from a switch from the current system to a system of pay to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u7	Let me be clear: does Mr Smaling mean that the SP is considering reintroducing the charging system in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u8	No, as far as we're concerned, driving a bill is a word from the past. We've put that behind us. We want to look at the kind of roads, so the state roads and the state roads. We want to leave the provincial roads out of sight anyway. People living in shrinking regions or far away from the countryside are more dependent on cars. We want to differentiate by type of fuel. You could differentiate between business traffic and private use. We need to put everything next to each other to see if we can introduce a system from pay to use that is at least as good as the current system. It must also be able to be budget-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u9	I think there's been such a system for a long time. It's called fuel tax. If you drive a lot, you fill up a lot and pay more. So I think that's already there. I have the feeling that Mr Smaling is going to cover up the whole of the road billing after all. I would like to be clear about this, because I hear all kinds of vague terminology about a new system. However, I do not think he dares say exactly what it looks like. We're gonna have an election. I would like the whole of the Netherlands to know what they are voting for if they are considering voting for your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u10	At the moment, we leave it as it is. As I said, we are looking at ways of redesigning the system. The bpm, i.e. the vehicle tax, and the excise duty are now the items you pay, as well as the addition if you have a lease car. You could replace it with a simple payment system per mile. Then you don't pay for those other things. You only pay on the "A" roads and on the "N" national roads. You still have to differentiate that by fuel consumption. The private motorist pays less than he does now, Mr Madlener. More than half of the people pay less than they do now. You should take a good look at that, as well as Mrs Visser, because the two of you are the ones who take money out of the car driver's pocket and not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u11	Of course, you can try a lot of ways to make it sound very complicated, but I think all the listeners now know that you're just taking the billing off again, with all the problems of that. We have discussed these problems for many years: privacy, the fact that people with a small scholarship are driven out of their car by the higher costs and so on. We finally got rid of all this stuff and the SP starts again. I think that is a very sad observation, but we know where we stand at the next ballot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u12	Mr Madlener, it's now in...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u13	Hoho, as far as I am concerned, we are talking through the President and not directly. Just now it was about "you two." The two of us have done nothing wrong, so we need to speak through the President. Mrs Visser is the next to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u14	No, because I still have to respond to Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u15	You're right. Would you mind doing that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u16	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Madlener that the system is already complicated. There are four types of charges: bpm, vehicle tax, excise duty and addition for leasing cars. It could be simpler, couldn't it? Mr Madlener will have to agree to that, won't he? If you abolish the bpm for owners of small, fuel-efficient cars, they are probably people from the supporters of Mr Madlener and from mine, who can quickly switch to a cleaner car. Then you've achieved your environmental goal. That will also be very appealing to Mr Madlener. I think that if we have a system in which we are paid to use it, I will let it be put first, because we should not suddenly come up with something that could put privacy on the line, such as a locker in the car, Mr Madlener and I agree. That's what I'm telling him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u17	I am very pleased to hear that the SP has a sense of reality, sees that building more asphalt does not solve the problems and is willing to look at other possibilities. But I was a little shocked that it was said: free beer for everyone and the climate is improving. We have to be honest about it. You can't tell everyone: driving is going to be cheaper for you and you're going to do it less out of yourself. Surely the spokesperson of the SP must agree with me on that, too? If we come to a form of road pricing, that means that you have to make choices in your driving behaviour in order to be able to meet the same costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u18	Yeah, that's true. But I was just telling you that if you charge it to the sustainability target, you can control electric driving. For example, you could eliminate the bpm for electric transport, but not for the transport using fossil fuels. There are more incentives. At some point you will also end up with the lease driver, for whom the addition rate is already a lot lower for electric driving than for driving on fossil fuels. It is a matter of sticking into the system in the right place, so that people are stimulated to switch to a cleaner way of transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u19	I think that we could come a long way together in a progressive left-wing cooperation. I am glad that the SP dares to stick its toes in the water, both for the climate and the environment as well as for everyone's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u20	That's a good way of putting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u21	I am so glad that a new coalition has already been formed. I am really looking for what Mr Smaling has just advocated. Which problem exactly does he want to solve? I cannot follow his solution at all, but perhaps he can explain it. I hear him particularly in favour of abolishing the bpm. I know the target group for which Mr Smaling always comes up, namely the motorist with a small wallet. He doesn't buy a new car that easily. Of the 400,000 new cars sold every year, 200,000, or more, are used by lease drivers. Those people with new cars don't have the smallest wallet. Mr Smaling wanted to solve the problem with a system that would benefit the users of the national roads and the N-roads, but not the users of the municipal roads, and that would also have to be differentiated according to all kinds of emission standards. For whom is Mr Smaling actually solving problems? What does Mr Smaling propose in concrete terms? Isn't he just chasing the driver with a small wallet at a cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u22	No, I'd like to argue with that. We're still thinking about it, let me be honest about that. This is not a small thing within the SP, but I don't think it applies to any party. So we want to discuss it carefully. We're not ready to say, "That's how we're gonna do it." But I started with the report of the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, which states that the number of traffic jams increased by 22% in 2015, while this Minister has done an enormous amount of road expansion. It's gonna end sometime, isn't it? Surely you cannot turn this country into some sort of asphalt plain, as Mrs Visser probably wants? You have to go through the "demand and supply" dynamics at some point, increasing supply by broadening roads. After all, everyone thinks: I'll get the car again! You're stuck with a travel time extension of a few minutes, which apparently is the biggest problem on Earth right now. So you have to take the step now, so people will think, "Do I have to get in that car?" Then you have to look at the type of car and the parts of the country where you drive. By selectively abolishing the bpm and first of all removing bpm from small, clean cars, you can create the situation for people with a small wallet that they can switch to a new car.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u23	It is very special that the SP calls for the elimination of the bpm, while the proceeds are mainly for those with a large wallet and not for those with a small wallet. The SP is still thinking about this. I assume this will also be reflected in the credit transfers. We'll be able to see it in February. So we can discuss this with each other in concrete terms. My question, however, is about something else: should the car taxes not be reduced according to the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u24	According to the way we're looking at it right now, it's being resolved budget-neutrally. What you would charge at mileage price there is probably the Maut you are going to charge for trucks when adding up is the same as the amount involved in abolishing the vehicle tax and the bpm. If you send for a budget-neutral solution, that's about the result. Mrs Visser has probably thought about this herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u25	Mrs Visser, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u26	Yeah, I've thought about it, but I have another question. Does the SP want lower charges for the driver, yes or no? That's a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u27	The way we are dealing with it now means that it is budget-neutral but that more than half of the people benefit from it, as more people drive less on average, compared to what is currently taxed on motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u28	Mr Smaling, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u29	What I have just said could perhaps have been explained a little more clearly, but I am convinced that Mrs Visser understands it. Mr. Chairman. We are not in favour of environmental zones, because each city is in a different way, but we would like to go to WHO air quality standards, that is World Health Organisation standards. If you take those standards, you won't need such a spaghetti of environmental standards anymore. Is that a way to go for the Secretary of State? We also want to get rid of the rest of the dirty scooters. We would like to table an amendment to that effect. We don't want to wait years. Cycling takes a huge flight. I would like to hear what has been achieved in the area of cycling in recent years. For example, the Brabant mobility network is in the process of being very innovative. Can't you roll that out in the Netherlands? On the track, I'll be brief. We have just had a debate on the railways. In recent years ProRail has been very interested. I ask the Secretary of State if in recent years we have really lost time because of what went wrong with ProRail and what we have done since the 1990s to cut up a very good international leading rail company in all those parts that the NS and later ProRail had. We must now wait for the sprinters and intercitys that will come in the coming years. After that, I hope it'll look a lot more colourful. I hope that people will talk about our rail system with a positive feeling. In shrinking regions, many bus lines are removed. Does the Secretary of State notice that, too? Is it really the future that a volunteer with a bellbus will be driving around there or can it be otherwise? We have just talked about aviation. There are three major problems: the Golf carriers flying around with state aid, Ryanair and other companies exploiting staff, and the fear of KLM's position in the holding company. That last point is very topical again; the Secretary of State has said some things about it before. Now I'm more concerned with the growth of Schiphol. How does she feel about that? The number of flights is growing. We're close to the 510,000. Afterwards, the 50/50 rule can enter into force with the environmental club. How does she see that? Are we going to let that go, because Schiphol needs to grow? Are we going to let go of the people in the area? We cannot re-vote old real estate around Schiphol, because that has its own spatial planning dynamic and decision-making at municipal and provincial level. In the context of inland waterway transport, I would like to ask what progress has been made with the implementation of the Smaling/Jacobi motion adopted last year. In the answers to the actual questions, I see that the Minister is working on them, but I would like to hear a little more concrete about them. There are a lot of smaller bottlenecks in the inland waterway sector that can be solved. We will come up with an amendment to resolve it. It concerns, for example, berths, endings and household waste problems. We really need to make the most of this inland waterway transport. In freight transport, inland waterway transport is really number one as far as the SP is concerned. As far as safety is concerned, we have seen an action plan for rail coming along, for which we are grateful. This morning I read in the Metro about a lot of hassle when considering. A lot of near-accidents happen with people with cellphones and music on their ears. What can we do about it? It is very difficult to maintain and fine it. Is there a way that can lead us to a better future? As far as the road is concerned, the call for a delta plan sounds like road safety. I do not know if the Minister feels that way, but can she follow the recommendations of the Stichting Scientific Research on Road Safety? Well, there's a few useful things in there. Are we going to make it to get all the asbestos off the roofs by 2024? Can we work with it locally? I recently read a piece in the newspaper about the area around Goor, where local companies cannot go through all kinds of hiccups. Can you do it faster? There has been huge savings on the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT). It amounts to about 35 million from 2012. Can we do all that? It's a huge organogram. We call at the slightest for the Inspection Environment and Transport to take action. We read that the inspection companies are calling to see if it is convenient for them to come to inspect. Recently, we were at Shell Moerdijk, where it was said that the ILT is coming at the same time as the Labour Inspectorate and the security region. There doesn't seem to be any real connection. Mr. Pieter van Vollenhoven suggested bringing those inspections together. My colleague Ronald van Raak is working on a bill to that effect. Would this be a good idea? How can we be better at supporting the ILT?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u30	Mr Smaling of the SP is always involved in the asbestos dossier. What does he think of the current approach? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u31	It's a huge job to get this done for D-day. It takes a lot of money and Mr Dijkstra and I both know that it is not going fast enough. A budget has been made available, but that is a fraction of what is estimated to be needed. Hence my question to the Secretary of State. Of course, she can't just pull 2 billion out of the top hat. We need to look at whether we can do it smartly with provinces and municipalities, perhaps prioritizing what needs to be done first and what can be done later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u32	2 billion is a big amount. The ban by 2024. Is Mr Smaling prepared to postpone this somewhat, looking at the lifetime of those asbestos sheets on roofs and a different approach to risk? Is the SP watching that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u33	2024 isn't that far away at all. At some point you won't be able to insure yourself if an insurer sees you run into that ban. Then I think we should sit together and see what we can achieve. We must also be realistic about this. We are about to have a specific debate on asbestos, but perhaps we can exchange some creative proposals during this budget debate, because it does not make sense to steer on something you will see that you are not going to make it. That's it. This was the last budget debate with the Secretary of State and the Minister. I'll miss them. That's a little premature, because we still have some time to go, but I've been working with them nicely. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u34	Mr. Chairman. Every day we get in the car, on a bike, in the train, in the tram or in the bus to go to work, on a birthday visit or to the football association. There is a fairly basic condition for this: it has to be settled. You want it to be safe and there's not too much fuss. People want safe roads. They want their children to be able to ride their bikes safely and just get to school. They want there to be no traffic jams, but also that they can easily store their bike when they go to the station. They also want to be able to get on the tram or bus without hassle with their OV-chipkaart, without having to switch from one provider to another. I think everyone in this room will recognize that feeling. You also want your feet to stay dry. You want it to be easy to build your home if you want it to be and you don't have to make too difficult license applications. If you have a company in the port of Rotterdam and want to make a sustainable investment, you should not run into all kinds of obstructive rules. For example, if you want your own company to be inspected by drones, you just want it to be possible. So it has to be settled. For a better environment people want to contribute, but the government should not tell us to have a Meatless Monday or a carless Sunday, or that we are all obliged to go electric. People want to be able to decide for themselves how they live their own lives. With the energy agreement and with the Paris climate agreement, there is a considerable and ambitious challenge of sustainability. We see this mainly as an opportunity for the Netherlands. It is an opportunity to export our knowledge and expertise in the field of water and climate abroad. My colleague, Mr Dijkstra, will deal with this in his contribution. Are we there? No. There has been a great deal of work on all these issues over the past period. I see Mr Madlener standing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u35	You're just at the beginning of your speech. Keep going!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u36	You heard me, Mr Madlener!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u37	I have a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u38	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u39	I hear the VVD spokesperson say that we should not be chasing people at costs, that it should remain affordable and that we should not force everyone to drive electric, but this government is going to taxly stimulate electric driving at a very low add-on rate. That's actually paid for by the regular driver. I just heard you in an interrupting debate asking the SP whether it doesn't think driving is too expensive, but I should only be here proposing the promotion of electric driving. But the ordinary Dutchman can't afford those expensive electric cars at all! And you're going to subsidise all that! That's how it all goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u40	I'm not funding anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u41	I think you're part of that party, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u42	I'm chairman here. We'll talk through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u43	Yes, but you are also chairman of the party I address here, namely the VVD,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u44	No, I'm not here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u45	Good. Mr President, the VVD comes up with a story that driving must be affordable for everyone, but at the same time there are going to be a lot of millions of subsidies for electric driving. I have a question. The VVD wants to make driving cheaper. Do you support our proposal to halve the road tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u46	The election program of the VVD has just appeared. Yours too; that was also easy to read on one A4. We have yet to establish our electoral programme. I did not at all say that we should continue to subsidise electric driving. You might want to listen a little more carefully. I have said that people would like to make their own choice and that we, as a VVD, are not in favour of imposing the obligation, for example, on all cars to drive electric in 2025, as some parties in this Chamber have done. We did not vote for that, Mr Madlener. I didn't say that at all. I have just said that the VVD stands for people who want to make their own choice and who are quite willing to contribute. Not because they have to be from the government, but because they have an interest and feel it themselves. They can make their own choice in that. Perhaps Mr Madlener should listen carefully first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u47	Six billion euros have just been wasted on all kinds of hybrid vehicles. That didn't make any sense at all. That's money that all motorists bring in. You could have cut car taxes for the 6 billion. Even now, this cabinet is going to give the electric car a huge tax advantage. There must be loading posts everywhere and that power must be unloaded, while the ordinary Dutchman does pay taxes. I ask you, will you stop that policy and support our proposal to use that money to halve the road tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u48	It is so funny, because Mr Madlener has given his support to the Rutte I cabinet. That's when it came to this car letter. I didn't hear him then. In the Autobrief II we stopped the tax subsidy, which was indeed completely out of control, with which people bought an Outlander and then simply left the plug in the closet and drive out of the street with gasoline. We have stopped that, Mr Madlener. We have ensured that 90% of driving the Netherlands with the current Car Letter, which I believe you voted for, improves on it, precisely in the MRB. Is that what we're dealing with? No. This is the first step. As far as we are concerned, we are taking a step further. But as you know, there will be a new cabinet formation after the elections. Then I'm sure we're both going to do our best to make sure that the mrb is indeed arranged in a fairer way and that it goes down. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u49	I also ask Mrs Visser to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u50	I will, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u51	I hear the VVD talking about how important it is for people in the Netherlands to be able to transport themselves everywhere and how important public transport is. But what I find so special is that tonight is the longest traffic jam of the year, 550 kilometers. You are making a suggestion as if due to your responsibility there have been fewer traffic jams and fewer traffic accidents in recent years. That is simply not the case. You keep pushing that it needs more asphalt. Isn't it time for the VVD to take off the shutters and understand that if you think it really needs to be arranged, you have to look at how people go to work in an integral way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u52	I'm sorry, but I'm smiling. Mrs Belhaj has really not listened to my contribution. I didn't even say this. I started my story with people wanting to make their own choices. You, as a D66 man, should address that. I haven't even said what we've done in the last few years. I was just about to get started on that. But you are indeed taking the words out of my mouth when it comes to, for example, the number of asphalt kilometres we have built. But indeed, I think people should make their own choices. In the past, we've been trying to pull people out of that car to put them in the O.V. People don't do it. That is also apparent from the figures. I think you should facilitate people's choice. They have to choose whether they want to ride a bike or whether they want to get on the tram, a bus or a car. That might be the difference between D66 and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u53	This is a typical example of how, from an ideology, liberalism, you try to come to responsibility for the policies you have pursued. If it turns out that what is being done doesn't work, you can say "we're going to give people free choices, we're going to let everyone go by car and we're going to facilitate everyone in it," but that's just bullshit, of course. The question I am asking you is whether you are willing, now that you see how many traffic jams continue to occur, to let go of the fact that you continue to think limited about asphalt and dare to say that it is not about what means of transport you use and not where the money comes from? The point is that people have a right to ensure that the government is able to get them to work either by road or by public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u54	Now it's really breaking my clog. Really, speaking of shutters. The VVD has just kept the story that people need their own freedom of choice. This cabinet spends 2 billion each year on rail transport and then another 2 billion on roads. If you're talking about a limited look... ammehula! Sorry, I'm getting a little upset about this. There's going to be 6 billion... there's 8 million motorists, who get 2 billion back, and you're blaming me for the VVD just looking at the asphalt? Over the past period we see that the number of kilometres of asphalt has increased. We see that the number of traffic jams has decreased. Are we there? No. Today there was indeed the longest traffic jams this year, due to bad weather, due to autumn. That is what we have always had in recent years, and we will always have it, just as we have in the past. Sometimes there is a malfunction, but don't blame me for having a limited look at the VVD. That's what you've got. It seems that the VVD should not stand up for both the driver and the traveler, whether it is a traveler in the city or a cyclist. I'm going for all of them, apparently not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u55	It's funny that, when you ask a VVD guy about a broader vision, he or she starts talking about a lot of money. The joke is that it has been shown that you can keep pumping money into it all you want, but that doesn't solve the problems. The art is to see exactly what problem we have and whether we solve it by building asphalt or by doing something about public transport. That's what I'm talking about. You can say that it is a coincidence that today is a day that it is very busy. But the people about whom you started your beautiful story experience that completely different, daily. Here from The Hague we are certainly able to see in advance why these traffic jams arise and how you can solve them. Then you should not come up with a lame story in the sense that it is nicely liberal that people can make their own choices. People mostly want a solution. You are responsible in this cabinet for that solution. So far, people haven't experienced that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u56	If I had followed your reasoning, we wouldn't have done anything on the roads and traffic jams would have increased by 50%. Today would not have stood 925 kilometers on the road but much more. I also think it's a little crazy to say that the VVD doesn't look wider. If you had listened carefully to the beginning of my speech, you would have heard that the VVD stands for people to make their own choices. So do we. I actually expect something from D66 when it comes to making your own choices. If we spend 4 billion together, how is it that the traveller is not satisfied? That's more money than in the highways! That's not in the money. That is in the fact that we only have one provider, for example on the track, who does not think for the sake of the customer. I also expect D66's cooperation to break open the public transport market and put the traveller at the centre, whether it be the taxi market or another way of contracting. I assume that D66 will cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u57	Did I hear the representative of the VVD say between his nose and his lips that, despite the fact that a motion with a parliamentary majority has been adopted, the VVD does not consider that to be a fact? Does this also apply to laws adopted by a majority or to representatives elected by a majority? I think a motion has just been passed to ensure that no fossil cars will be sold in the Netherlands since 2025. I think we're all gonna watch how the government does that. What about that democratic principle in the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u58	I gave a substantive answer to Mr Madlener's question, namely what the VVD vision of this motion is. This motion has been passed. I'm not denying that at all. Mrs Van Tongeren did not hear me say that at all. I found that the VVD did not agree. That is what Mrs Van Tongeren asked me about. I didn't deny anything. I do not deny at all how the decision-making process has gone here, but Mr Madlener's question was what the VVD thinks about it. I answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u59	Very nice. GroenLinks sometimes disagrees with something that gets a majority in this Chamber. Then I have a question about electric transport. A GroenLinks/VVD motion calls for 200,000 full-electric vehicles to be put on the road by 2020 and a million in 2025. That motion was also adopted by a majority, so I assume that the VVD, whose signature was under the motion and who voted for it, still has that as its objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u60	That motion was just as different, as Mrs Van Tongeren knows, and those objectives have not been set. Mrs Van Tongeren was not in Paris at the time, because we were in this Chamber together, but two weeks ago the Paris car show was. There we saw what was being developed. All major car manufacturers work on electric cars for the entire European market that are affordable, up to €30,000, have a minimum range of 500 kilometres and can be loaded quickly. You don't need a motion from this room for that at all. The car market is working on this itself, and Mrs Van Tongeren should be satisfied with that. As far as the VVD is concerned, that's the way it's supposed to be. Set European standards with each other and car manufacturers will deliver. Who knows what will appear on the market in two years, in 2018. Maybe it's much more than a motion passed by the Chamber ever wanted. Then I'm sure there'll be another motion and we'll see what happens next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u61	Before I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert from the CDA, I note that Mrs Visser has now spoken two minutes of her text but has already spoken sixteen minutes. I'm just gonna give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u62	In itself, it is right that the largest party should have the most speaking time. So that's not even so unfair. I was just following the little debate between the VVD and D66. Mrs Visser is doing her best to show what good has happened. However, we cannot ignore the fact that this cabinet has simply cut infrastructure costs. That makes Mrs Visser's somewhat pissed-off reply remarkable. Isn't it much more convenient for Mrs Visser to admit that this cabinet has made heavy cuts in infrastructure? That she admits that the VVD gave that point away to the Labour Party, when she herself preferred to invest more in infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u63	We have had this debate on several occasions and Mr Van Helvert knows my answer. That's right. As far as the VVD is concerned, more money goes to infra, but we had a major task, namely to solve the crisis. Also, the housing market had to be removed and we did not want to increase care costs exponentially. We wanted people to get back to work. We've all taken care of that. We're slowly getting people to take steps again. Last year we implemented a 5 billion reduction in charges. For the coming period, the Infrastructure Fund has been extended and, as far as we are concerned, we will continue to do so. Unfortunately, it doesn't work in one go, but step by step. I am well aware that the CDA is in favour of this, but in the past, for example, in the spring agreement, the CDA has agreed to cuts in the Infrastructure Fund. This was done by the CDA on the grounds that we had to, because we wanted to take the Netherlands out of the crisis together. Over the past four years we have not received that support, but who knows, the CDA will come to its senses and help us make the Netherlands better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u64	For example, I hear that Mrs Visser, on behalf of the VVD, was very pleased with Asscher's job plans. We were not happy with that, because we would have preferred to spend that money on infrastructure. If all that is true, then it is strange that Mrs Visser is trying to act like a madman here as if there is a fantastic picture of infrastructure in the Netherlands, while we still have so many bottlenecks. If you admit that you've cut back, it's not fair to say to D66: it's true that we've cut back on infra; we're still behind it, but we're not proud of it because there's a lot not to be proud of in the infra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u65	Mrs Belhaj asked me something very different. She asked me to look at mobility in a different way. I just said that the VVD stands for that; it stands for freedom of choice. We have had a number of discussions with the CDA, but perhaps Mr Van Helvert should look at his own 2012 election programme to see what the CDA has proposed in it. Mr Van Helvert forgot it. There was also a reduction in road costs and a reduction in travel costs. I'm also very curious about a CDA pass-through. This is characteristic of the CDA. It may attack the VVD on this, but where is the CDA's counter-budget? It voted against the White Cow Framework. It voted against the child regulations. It was about billions, but did the CDA put in a counter-budget to fix that? No. Mr Van Helvert is now attacking me on the Infra Fund which indeed needed austerity, because we had a bigger mission, namely to take the Netherlands out of the crisis, but the CDA had included a reduction in its own electoral programme on roads. Quite frankly, instead of taking my measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u66	In the first two years we have drawn up a counter-budget, we had spent 200 million more a year on roads. However, I have already said in the MIRT meeting: let us not have that discussion, because the 200 million we did not have would probably not have been enough to solve the problems. That's not the point. The point is that I think it is a very strange discrepancy that there has been substantial cuts on the one hand, but that the VVD on the other would like to pretend that it has put something fantastic on the other hand when it comes to infrastructure. That is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u67	I hadn't even started my fantastic story yet, so that's funny. I had only begun to introduce myself. Perhaps Mr Van Helvert can look back on the past. Perhaps he can look again at what his party has done at the time when she has concluded the Kunduz agreement. Maybe he can take another look at the CPB transfer of the program in 2012. They included both rail and road cuts and a reduction in the cost of mileage for all passengers. That may be possible, but do not take the VVD into account when it takes the responsibility to get the Netherlands out of the crisis. I've missed that for the last four years of the CDA as a driver's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u68	I'm just curious about the following. I am not going to attack Mrs Visser, because the moods are already high enough at the beginning of the evening. I was just triggered by the interrupting debate between the VVD and D66 on the VVD's vision of mobility. I understand you want people to choose for themselves. I also know that it's hard to get people into O.V. once they're used to getting into their cars to go to work. However, I am curious to see whether the VVD is prepared to look at the possibilities of developing mobility as effectively as possible at the start of construction projects, for example in the construction of new residential areas. You can then make choices that will reduce congestion there and make people opt for public transport. Couldn't you see if this is how mobility problems can be addressed in the future? What does the VVD think of that way of looking at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u69	That's possible, but let people make their own choices. If you know you're going to live somewhere where it's so developed that it's very difficult to park your car, then you choose it yourself. It's possible. The Netherlands has the busiest railways, roads, bicycle paths and you name it all. There is mobility everywhere. We will have to do something for all forms of mobility. We think it can be more convenient and smarter, both in terms of roads and in terms of public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u70	That's half an answer to my question. Here's what I'm talking about. Let's say you're going to build a new building district in an area where there's already a lot of traffic. You could then choose not to do anything about that infrastructure, but you could also decorate it so that public transport becomes a very attractive option for all people who are going to live there. Then you will see that the people who are going to live there opt for public transport rather than making a contribution to the traffic jams that are already in that area. Is the VVD in favour of looking at the construction of residential areas or the placement of industrial sites, for example? Is she in favour of considering the question in advance: what would be the smartest mobility solution if we were to build here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u71	It's like you have to make an or-or choice now. That may be the difference between the Party for Animals and the VVD: as far as we're concerned, it's not either-or, but and-and. In the Netherlands we simply have basic principles when it comes to the number of bus stops and the distance at which there should be a bus stop near a residential area. So we have already decided how we want to set it up and what conditions apply to it. But people don't choose one mobility. One day you take the bike, the other day you take the car and maybe you catch the train sometimes. From the past we know that of every ten new travellers only three come from the car; the other seven come from the bike. That is evident from investigations over and over again. So we should not have the illusion that we can do that if we build up a lot of public transport facilities. Then I say: you have to redesign it; if you spend 4 billion on it together, then the traveller deserves a better product. This can be done by allowing new entrants and by opening up the market. This cannot be done now because we are stuck with concessions and with the interests of certain parties. The VVD would like to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u72	I'm a little confused. It seems that Mrs Visser does not understand my question at all. Or she doesn't want to get into it. What Mrs Visser is saying is not right at all. It's not like people choose this one day and the other day. People are pretty attached to their fixed patterns of going to work. You can't just change it. My question concerns the following. You know that once they've chosen the car or the train, people don't change that very quickly. If you create a new place where people are going to live, you can decorate it so that you know: if we do it sister, people go more with the O.V., and if we do it like this, they're going to be stuck in traffic that is actually too long and we wouldn't want to do it anymore. Is the VVD either in favour or against looking at the layout of new buildings in this way, so that you can steer the behavior that ultimately yields the most for everyone, namely the least amount of traffic, in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u73	I am indeed trying to understand Mrs Ouwehand's question. Maybe we'll talk past each other. I get that feeling a little bit. But let me put it another way. Maybe that'll give us a direction. If Mrs Ouwehand asks if I am prepared to set up all kinds of residential areas where no car is allowed, then I say no. Mrs. Ouwehand is protesting a bit now, but I'm trying to understand what she's asking me to do. Look at the spatial design of the Netherlands. If we set up new residential areas, there is already a policy for this: couple living and working locations together and make them easily accessible by O.V. I'm trying to understand what Mrs. Ouwehand is asking. It is already a policy that we set up residential and work locations and housing locations in such a way that you can get there in all possible ways. So, sorry, I do not understand Mrs. Ouwehand's question. Perhaps I will give you another answer that Mrs Ouwehand thinks: this is not it. I have a feeling we're talking a little bit past each other. The answer is: the VVD likes to continue the way it is done now, but with freedom of choice and not with the look that the driver is not allowed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u74	Maybe you should talk about it one more time. Mrs Belhaj, I should like to give Mrs Visser the opportunity to continue her speech. She's only been talking about her own story for two minutes. Let's wait a minute. Then you can interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u75	Mr President, I understand that. Only, I think it will help, I have started this debate a little bit to find out exactly what question is being asked and why there is such an unsatisfactory feeling in the answer. The question is actually quite simple: does the VVD think that you can make the budgets for infrastructure and public transport a single access fund and then, depending on the problem, see what the solution is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u76	It's already happening. Maybe we'll figure it out. Let me put it another way: if it turns out that more money is needed for roads, is Mrs Belhaj prepared to make that available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u77	You are being provoked, Mrs Belhaj, so you will have the opportunity to say something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u79	After her general, brief introduction, Mrs Visser now continues with her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u80	We've been through this for a short time. We see that last year there has been a lot of work to keep the Netherlands accessible. 717 kilometers of new asphalt road has been built, limiting the increase in traffic jams. If we hadn't, the traffic jams would have increased by 50%. A number of new decisions have also been taken on missing links. We cannot turn on the asphalt machines for this, but they are essential for the future, especially.I am now looking at Mr Madlener and Mr Hoogland, but also at Mrs Belhaj for the surroundings of Rotterdam. I mention the connection between the A13 and the A16 and the Blankenburg connection. I also mention the connection between the A12 and the A15 in Gelderland. These connections are all extremely important to keep the accessibility in order. However, there are not only new links and widening lanes. The financing of management and maintenance has also been put in place in a structural manner. As in the past, we do not need to look each year at whether there is enough money and how it should be arranged. It's just being re-booked in structuralally. The minister always said it's not sexy, but it's necessary. We support this, both in terms of rail and in terms of roads and waterways. In addition, significant steps have been taken to improve safety at work in recent times. A number of new stations have also been opened. I think everyone is looking proudly at Rotterdam's new station, for example. Recently, the new station of The Hague has also been opened, as has Arnhem. European agreements have also been made on new standards for air quality and reuse of scarce raw materials. At the same time, there is investment in mainports, in Schiphol, where investment is now being made in a station and in the port of Rotterdam. In the meantime, we are in the process of completing the largest reform operation in spatial planning. The law has been passed, the foundation is there and we are now preparing the General Management Measures and the set-up laws. In doing so, we have taken a silent but revolutionary step in the way we look at spatial planning. At the same time, in the last period of considerable investment, we have ensured that the Netherlands not only now but above all in the future keeps dry feet with the Delta programme Space for the rivers, which is essential for the way in which we want to interact in this country, but above all for the way in which we can maintain the unique starting position of the Netherlands. Again and again international research shows that the Netherlands scores the best on infrastructure not only in Europe, but almost worldwide when we look at all rankings. We're proud of that. Are we done? No, absolutely not. I have also heard today about the traffic jams and the longest traffic jams this autumn. We do see that these traffic jams are getting longer and longer. For the VVD it is important that the car is part of our daily life and that we just need it to get from A to B. We're not in traffic for fun. Above all, it causes a bad mood, it is traffic-insecure, it is bad for the environment and it also puts the industry at enormous costs. The social costs of traffic jams are 2 to 3 billion. As far as we are concerned, we are also continuing to broaden and build roads. In doing so, we have managed the structural extension and not only the extension until 2030 of the Infrastructure Fund, but also the cabinet decision to regulate it structurally, both management, maintenance and new roads and the maintenance of rail. As far as we are concerned, this is also necessary for all those Dutch people who go to work every day and for our business to keep ourselves competitive. That will also be the bet for the VVD for the next period. In the previous budgetary discussions we also discussed the fact that we are seeing all kinds of developments. I just had a brief debate with Mrs Van Tongeren about the Paris car show and what you see there when it comes to sustainable transport. Last year we also talked about intelligent self-driving cars. The Minister made a number of concrete agreements in Europe this spring on how we can deal with this. We see that in terms of car accessibility, a lot of things are going to change over the coming period in terms of sustainability and smarter cars that can communicate with each other. There is still a great deal to be done, and perhaps even more money is needed for infrastructure, because we will keep two systems side by side. All these cars last 18 years and they keep driving around. At the same time, more and more smarter cars are added. "Smarter" also means that agreements must be made with municipalities and provinces. Today we have received the ANWB's bottlenecks analysis and we saw that a lot of bottlenecks are no longer on the national roads, but on the underlying road networks, that is to say both the province and the municipalities. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that accessibility analysis. We had the old BDU funds that are decentralised. What agreements have been made with municipalities and provinces on accessibility? It is about accessibility by car and by car. Does the Minister and the Secretary of State not agree with us that there should be clear agreements on this matter? What we see now is that you can build a lot of roads or do a lot of things with rail, but if a number of conditions are not set for that, it is still stuck. When we look at sustainability and self-driving cars, we will see that these cars are welcomed back in inner cities because they can become a source of renewable energy. Laws and regulations are preventing that now. The law STROOM was voted away in the First Chamber, but it is precisely in the municipality of Utrecht that Lombok is advocated not only to let that car tap power but also to have it delivered back. Let us then see how we can regulate such innovations and use the laws and regulations as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u81	Laws and regulations need to be put in place. That must indeed, but you can also make it attractive to go into the city with an electric car instead of with that diesel you also have. Maybe you have an electric car as second car. A lot of families have two cars. Not me, by the way, but a lot of families do. Couldn't you make it more attractive via parking rates to take the electric car especially when you're going downtown? How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u82	That's what congregations are about. About parking rates, parking policy, whether something is a blue zone or for whom it costs €2 or €4 etc., the municipalities themselves go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u83	I am very glad that the VVD is in that position, because it is not so arranged now. The municipalities aren't going over it themselves yet. I intend to put forward an initiative proposal on this with the Labour Party so that municipalities can differentiate and, for example, allow clean cars to park at a cheaper price. I am very pleased with the support of the VVD for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u84	We look at the bill and then we will give our opinion. As far as we are concerned, we are mainly looking at what is possible and how to make things possible, rather than declaring all kinds of prohibitions, such as those environmental zones. We have had a debate on this in this house before. If you want to facilitate things, flow in the inner cities is very important. I had a little debate with Mrs Van Tongeren about the traffic lights. How can you set it as well as possible? In Helmond we have the project Talking Traffic, where traffic lights are set so much faster that you can get into and through the city. As far as we are concerned, these are innovations of this kind. It makes things possible. I am very curious to see what Mrs Van Veldhoven will do in her own initiative proposal. Let's be clear: we don't think we're making that car. Nor do we believe that all kinds of prohibitions should come from this house. We need to set and maintain clear standards in Europe. In particular, we need to facilitate and stimulate innovation from the public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u85	Why does Mrs Visser want to ban environmental zones from this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u86	Because the environmental zone has become an inappropriate instrument. The discussion was about air quality. The environmental zone is no longer imported on this basis, i.e. because of particulate matter and nitrogen. It's about soot now. I don't know anyone who says, "Give me some dirty air." I think everyone would rather have some clean air. The cleaner, the better. So if Mrs Van Veldhoven really wants to improve air quality, she shouldn't be sitting on the car at all, but should ban all barbecues and wood-burning stoves. I have not yet seen a proposal to that effect from D66. I can't wait to see if that's what D66's gonna come up with. This really solves the soot emissions. If Mrs Van Veldhoven really was concerned about that, she would make that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u87	Mrs Visser brings in a lot of things, but the basic question is whether the VVD stands for the freedom of local authorities. Or does the VVD only do that when it suits her? Mrs Visser has just said that it is up to municipalities, but then she wants to ban one of the instruments. Perhaps they are not always the best instruments, but why should we, the Chamber or Mrs Visser, choose from The Hague what instruments the municipalities apply after a debate with their city council? Why does she want to deprive municipalities of that freedom of policy, when she says it is for policy freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u88	Because this instrument was introduced after air quality met in all respects. The funny thing is that this instrument is being used to bully the motorist. We see that it is used to bully the entrepreneur with his old van. These are people who are proud of their car. They have worked hard for it, can't buy another car or deal with their car for a very long time. They live in the centre of Rotterdam or Utrecht for years and suddenly they are no longer allowed to enter the old city centre. I don't think that's fair, because those cars have been approved on the road. They just got a bump and they just pay taxes. They're allowed on the road, but suddenly they can't be admitted. On what grounds? That's the point. I hear the argument of soot emissions. Then I expect a motion from D66 to ban all wood-smoke stoves and barbecues tomorrow. That's what solves the soot emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u89	I didn't make a proposal like that. I only note that the VVD finds the freedom of policy for municipalities difficult if it deviates from its own political priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u90	You really cannot blame the cabinet for not giving municipalities freedom of policy. We've just done the decentralisations. We've done the Environment Act. With that, all freedom is given. However, this is about the principle that you are allowed on the road, but then without any clear justification you can no longer enter your own city, while you are very durable on that car. You should be proud that people drive their cars for so long, but you're not. Now I'll move on, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u91	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u92	Another point concerns road safety. I've brought that up before. This is particularly true of the signals we received last week and the figures published yesterday by the Association of Insurance Companies. Those numbers are worrying. I would like a response from the Minister to these figures. How can we make traffic safer? There have been significant steps in this area over the past period. Above all, we must also note that there is a distraction in traffic. It all starts with ourselves in the end. If we were simply to use our common sense, we would come a long way. Yesterday I was at work in Utrecht and tried to reach the city office. I had to wait at a traffic light for a long time and saw two truck drivers who just didn't fly into each other's hair, because it took so long. We all have that short fuse ourselves. Actually, it starts with us respecting each other. You have to deal with the other the way you want the other to hang out with you. If that does not happen, we must look at a number of other elements. One of them is the road layout. What is needed to improve the provincial and municipal roads? I have made a plea on this matter before. Why is it so difficult to ensure a generic model that enables us to include road safety in procurement and in spatial planning? Municipalities can choose how to do that, but that must be one of the weighing instruments in it. Building the Netherlands and the ANWB can take the initiative. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with these parties the question of how we can improve road construction? Another element is increasing the chance of getting caught. We are talking specifically about maintaining the situation. We know that we have a number of teams of traffic with the police. That's at least 650 fte. Are they fully deployed? What agreements apply with the municipalities? What local powers are there to make sure that the chance of getting caught goes up? Furthermore, you need to make sure you punish harder. The VVD has put forward a number of proposals, such as tightening up the recidivism regime. We have recently had a debate here on the alcohol lock programme. It is also necessary to extend the powers of transit. Think of last week's terrible accident in Tilburg. In addition, together with the CDA, I have made a proposal on the retention of the registration numbers of foreign offenders. It cannot be that you can go divinely with an Italian or Romanian license plate on the Dutch highways. Can the Minister respond to the appeal of the Association of Insurance Agents? What is needed to increase road safety and, above all, the chance of catching? When we talk about the future, we are talking not only about the future of self-driving cars, but also about the here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u93	Mrs. Belhaj, I haven't had anyone interrupting for a while. We agreed in advance that we would try to conclude this evening. There's been more than ample interference. We shall allow the speaker to speak and then we shall see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u94	The driver's just annoyed. On the one hand, this is because of people who are misbehaving in traffic and on the other hand because of things that we just don't understand. For example, splash strips are not open. Or one sees a red cross, but no road works. One may not drive there; explain this if there is then a traffic jam. Tunnels are also being closed. I speak from personal experience, because this happens very often at the Coentunnel. This is called a beautiful word "tunnel dosage." I have tabled a motion on this subject together with Mr Hoogland in the past. What is the state of play in this respect? Are we going to solve that problem? Because if something happens in the Leidsche Rijntunnel, about the entire A2 is fixed. It is also about speeding up the recovery of cars in the event of accidents and tackling sneak traffic in the border regions. See what happens in Brabant and Limburg. I've been talking about the road, but as far as we're concerned, we're also gonna look at what can be done better in the field of public transport. That is what I was talking about in the debate on the interruption, because we are going to have to deal with the matter later. You're gonna pick your own O.V. provider. Depending on where you're sitting, you'll see what's handy and how you can arrange it. There are still a few things that need to be done in order to achieve this. That starts with us offering the space to suppliers who are new and ensure that a new product can be offered. Whether it's the FlixBuses or the Ubers and Abels of this world, make sure these kinds of parties can join the market. It's not about the timetable being right and the train being on time. The point is that the traveller is concerned with him in the end it comes from A to B in a safe and tidy way and is not left at a station. An example of this is the Kennemer line at Beverwijk, where Mrs De Boer and I have recently been. If the NS does not want to operate those lines, we should look at other providers. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at those lines, which the NS claims to be unable to do and not to see any other solutions, to see if we can find a different way of dealing with them and to allow new suppliers or new modalities to do so? Then I come to a point that belongs here and which Mrs De Boer has often drawn attention to, but it is not always possible. Somehow, there's a huge barrier. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State again how we're gonna fix this. The question is how we can still not share the available data. This could open up the market to new providers, in order to ensure that the traveller reaches 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and that we do not put the timetable at the centre, but the traveller himself. I have already talked about whether we can still contract decentralised lines, or lines that are in the main rail network and that are not being used sufficiently. Tomorrow there will be a VAO about O.V. and safety. Mrs. De Boer and I went to see Connexxion last week. We were wondering what would happen to a bus driver if he got all kinds of stones on his bus. That's intense. It is good that there is now an action programme. We can see that the problems on the railways are increasing, but also in regional transport. It depends on the place. Is the Secretary of State prepared to talk to all providers and see how they can classify the finances in such a way that they come to the right place; not to a provider, but where the need is greatest? What else does that take? Another point is our mainports: Schiphol Airport and the port of Rotterdam. We just passed a motion on Eindhoven. We are not only concerned with the term mainport, but we are also concerned with the distribution around Venlo and Groningen. In many places you can see that clusters of knowledge and innovation arise. The question is how to facilitate them better. On the one hand, it is about accessibility and on the other hand it is about reducing control pressure and inspection burdens. We know that new tariffs are now being looked at in the ILT and other inspection services. How will economic development and the ability to remain competitive with our port and our airport be taken into account? How is it taken into account that we also have a level playing field at European level? Another question in this context is whether the Minister is prepared to consider the system of fines. We now see the very crazy situation that a taxi entrepreneur who doesn't update his board computer in time gets €4,400 fine. We think this is particularly important for such a thing, because there has been a lot of debate in this House about whether the board computer is still necessary. Is the Minister willing to look at it that way? I would also like to include the CBR, on which Mr Van Helvert has asked questions. We see that the rates for a driving licence and everything related to it are being increased time and time again, while many locations are being closed down. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with the CBR how to maintain the service? Last week there was talk about KLM and Air France, but I want to talk here mainly about Schiphol. We're seeing a huge growth of Schiphol. In 2008 it was foreseen that the number of 500 000 movements would not be visible until 2020. We can now see that this was actually far too pessimistic. According to the VVD, it would be a perpetual waste if Schiphol were obliged to play three years' thumbs, while last week we saw the decision of the United Kingdom to develop Heathrow at London. If you're talking about competitiveness, we need to get to work there. Within the framework of standards and the enforcement system, I have talked about encouraging the use of the fourth job. How can we ensure that we can properly facilitate the space created by cleaner aircraft? That debate was in January of this year. I've seen questions answered, as have the Secretary of State's letter. We see that not many steps have actually been taken, except that much is still being talked to the Schiphol Environment Council. The Secretary of State is aware of our plea: if political decisions are to be taken, they must be made in this house. When can we see a decision in this house to ensure that we keep Schiphol competitive? My final point concerns spatial planning. As I have just said, one of the major reform operations in this house is in the field of land-use planning. We see very good opportunities, but we are also a little scared.It's actually a cry to all of us and we'll also discuss it in the debate.With all those AMvB's and interior laws, we're closing the space we offer with the Environment Act, which means that development is no longer possible in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u95	You have come at the end of your term. I see some interrupts, but first go to Mrs. Belhaj. In the meantime, she would have liked to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u96	Mrs Visser spoke about the importance of road safety and asked some general questions. I know Mrs Visser as someone who wants progress to be made. In view of the issue of registration and of the insurers' plea to do something, does she think that the current plan and what the Minister has done over the past three years has been sufficient? Shouldn't we just have a plan before January that's gonna help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u97	I have seen that in the cabinet's proposals there is an additional investment to improve road safety. I think that's very good. This needs to be addressed in concrete terms over the next period. I saw yesterday's call from the Alliance of Insurers. Frankly, I thought that was a bit of a vague call, in the sense of: we need to look further. I share your view that better registration is needed; we have therefore supported the motion on this issue. After all, we want to know exactly what caused it. So that needs to be looked at, but I prefer a good plan that everyone says is fine. Ms Belhaj indicates the period until 1 January 2017. If it's possible sooner, that's fine, but if it takes more time, it does. That doesn't mean we have to sit still in the meantime. Our plea that enforcement should be in order is still valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u98	Clear. When it's clear, it's done, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u99	It is clear to me, but I would like to finish this point. Does Mrs Visser agree with me that 1 January 2017 is a good target date?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u100	The sooner, the better, but I heard the insurers' call yesterday. They said that there are still a number of issues that need to be addressed further. For example, they referred to the registration, exactly what Mrs Belhaj was just talking about. SWOV, the Road Safety Research Foundation, is still working on a number of research projects to identify things. In my view, Mrs Belhaj and I share the view that it is better to do things right than to let time lead. That does not mean, however, that you have to leave certain things. Let us do what we can already do, but in such a way that we can get registration in order and take concrete action on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u101	Mrs Visser says that Schiphol must be competitive and compares the situation with Heathrow. What exactly is it about? Is the upper limit for Mrs Visser still 510,000 flights, giving her a gift to Lelystad? That's what the VVD wants, but that doesn't seem wise to the SP. Is that a hard upper limit, or isn't that the background to her question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u102	It is not a hard upper limit, because the deal was 500,000 flights until 2020; the number of flights went from 510,000 to 500,000, because we have made possible a number of developments in Lelystad and Eindhoven. Then there is a 50%-50% distribution for the space that is created. Schiphol can therefore continue to grow, as long as the space is only partially returned to the environment. So that space is offered to Schiphol. However, we see that it is coming to an end. This year I discussed it in the debate on the system of standards and enforcement. Also at airports there are peaks and peak times, where it is very busy with landing and takeoff. We can quickly reach agreement on this issue, which concerns the fourth runway use to ensure that this is regulated. However, this still lies with the ORS, the Schiphol Environment Council. The discussion on how Schiphol can continue to grow also includes the need for the ORS to make a number of statements. Heathrow may continue to develop, but we are still here talking to each other. We say, "Come on, we have to make sure that Schiphol can develop further." We can do that if that environmental space is created. We've seen numbers. There is now a re-report to see if the new methods are still correct. If that space is there, we don't have to wait anymore. Then we must also give Schiphol space to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u103	The reason for this is that the ORS, the old Alderstable, is becoming a kind of nuisance in the eyes of Mrs Visser. Am I getting that right? Should the people in Aalsmeer at some point just stop whining like that? Or does Mrs Visser see a model in which the agreements can remain binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u104	I've been to Aalsmeer myself on work visits. I've also talked to people who experience a lot of trouble. However, this is one of our important mainports. Schiphol means a lot to our economy. Decisions on Schiphol should be taken in this house. We see that there is by a diffuse assembly what are the powers of the Environment Council Schiphol? It's been talking for a long time. Our position is that we cannot afford to talk any longer, now that we see that London Heathrow is allowed to develop. We made a decision together in January. Political decisions belong in this house. If political statements are needed on the use of the fourth runway, on the 500,000 flight movements and on the environment, then we must have the debate here. The ORS is advisory in this respect. However, we should not sit there and talk for two years, after which we may make a decision in the third year and Heathrow is then already developed. That is bad for our mainport, bad for our economy and therefore bad for our jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u105	I always hear the VVD say nice words when it comes to the burden on the driver. However, when I look at policy, I see the opposite. The taxes for the driver have been increased. VAT has been increased. Excise duties have been increased over the past year under Rutte II. Is the VVD going to give this back to the drivers? If so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u106	Mr Madlener may have read the VVD's election programme. He has seen that we want to reduce the burden. Perhaps it would also be good if I reminded Mr Madlener of his own statements in a debate on taxation. I quote: "Unfortunately, we have not been able to get everything. We had to work with the CDA and the VVD. I don't want to preach double morals, but if you support a cabinet, you can't pull everything in." That was exactly the situation of the VVD. We have worked very hard together over the past four years, every day, to ensure that the Netherlands gets better, to ensure that we get out of the crisis. That is what we are on the right track with. We're not here yet. I'd like to take the next step to make sure that the traffic jams are solved, to make sure that more money goes to infrastructure, to make sure that the charges go down...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u107	This is going to be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u108	I am also counting on Mr Madlener's support. Perhaps Mr Madlener can also look back on his own period of tolerance. Then he realizes that not everything succeeds at once, that sometimes it takes a long time and that it goes one step at a time, but that we will eventually get there. As far as the Car Letter is concerned, 90% of driving in the Netherlands has a lower vehicle tax. As far as we're concerned, that's the first step, but we'd like to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u109	I didn't really want to look back on Rutte I, because that was a really long time ago. I want to talk about this cabinet and about the promises of the VVD for the future. Elections are coming up, and people need to know where they stand. First of all, I note that the tax increases of the VVD, on which Mrs Visser is so proud, have deepened the crisis. They have undermined people's purchasing power, which has allowed the shops to sell their products worse. The ING report has clearly demonstrated this. It was stupid policy. Same thing for cutting back on infrastructure. All economists agree that it is unwise to cut infrastructure costs in a crisis. You have to spend in a crisis: anti-cyclical policy. That's what we learned from the last crisis. Anyway, you've done all that and the crisis has deepened. I'm glad we're getting better. Now the question is how you are going to ensure that the money you have taken from the motorist by cutting infrastructure and increasing the burden on the motorist returns to the driver. I have not yet heard any concrete proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u110	If Mr Madlener had just stayed at the table in 2012 and hadn't run away, he could have just continued the policy he's so proud of. But you didn't. You ran away. That was your choice. It's very easy to stand by the sidelines and yell from there. You are doing that now, but that is not what we have done in the last four years. There have indeed been decisions that, as you yourself say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u111	I would ask you to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u112	In a cabinet, you can't pull everything if you have to make agreements with each other. In a family, you can't always do everything you want. But we have made sure that the economy is attracted, that the housing market is better, that care costs are in control, that a reduction in costs has been returned and that unemployment is reduced. We're not done with that. We would like to go further and that includes the motorist and the infrastructure. Fortunately, we still invest 6 billion a year in infrastructure. As far as we are concerned, the next period will be followed up. I am counting on Mr Madlener's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u113	Mr. Chairman. We'll separate our plastic and paper. We sort glass by color. We're throwing batteries in a special bin. We turn in old clothes for recycling and we take our discarded stuff to the environmental street. For a small message we just get on the bike and when we need a new car or refrigerator, we go looking for a more economical model. Together with the neighbor we discuss whether solar panels would not be a good idea. Everyone contributes in their own way to a cleaner environment and a better climate. We only have one globe, so please let's be careful about that. Yet we read in the paper that we are not doing enough. Doom scenarios are outlined. We're getting scared. It's pretending it's all up to us and as if the only solution would be to radically change your life. You can't go on a plane anymore, you can't drive sporadic and you have to become a vegetarian. I understand that a lot of people find that distressing, and I am also annoyed by that, especially the reproach that we would do too little and the fear that we are being brought up instead of hope and progress. At the same time, of course, we cannot close our eyes. The climate changes and we burden our environment and our living environment. Fortunately, the VVD sees other and better solutions as positive, and so we also opt for a positive approach. Earlier VVD ministers, including Ginjaar, Winsemius and Nijpels, have shaped our environmental policy since the 1970s. At the moment, Minister Henk Kamp is the designer of the most ambitious energy and climate policy ever for the Netherlands. Let me not forget the role of the Secretary of State in this. We'll work on it step by step. At the heart of my speech is that our environmental policy is working. We combine prosperity with a healthy living environment. Meanwhile, the world's population is growing strongly. There's more consumption and transport. The trick is to reduce emissions despite an increase in the use of raw materials, energy and mobility. Source policy and emission pricing are an important contribution to this. Dutch people are very satisfied with their living environment. According to the A.D. Neighborhood research, they're giving them a fat 7.5. We all want to get on with our lives, without having to change it drastically. As far as the VVD is concerned, a better environment is also feasible without patronisation. So we do not want restrictive measures in terms of meat consumption and air travel or carless Sundays. Nor do we want obligations for a high energy label when selling your property. But how does the Secretary of State take account of the support and capacity of Dutch people when measures are proposed? The VVD wants to push ahead with the environmental policy that we are now pursuing and strengthen in some areas. The VVD clearly opts for one goal, namely the reduction of CO emissions. We therefore want to embrace European standards for 2030 and 2050. The VVD is working to strengthen European emissions trading as an instrument in this regard. In this way, we are promoting emissions and moving towards the allocation of allowances in a more modern way. We also take rights out of the market that make it more sustainable...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u114	I would ask those who speak so loudly in the back of the Chamber to do so elsewhere. Mr Dijkstra, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u115	We are only giving rights to companies that really need them and that suffer from unequal competition. We're tightening the emission ceilings. In short, we are doing everything we can to prevent emissions, to achieve savings and to stimulate innovation. Now that global climate agreements have been made recently in Montreal for aviation, I ask the Secretary of State how it is going to ensure that Europe respects a. global agreement and b. does not immediately allow its own pricing system to exist alongside the global system. If that happens, our aviation cannot compete with that in the rest of the world. The VVD aims to remove barriers so that greener entrepreneurship is also rewarded. For example, we can clarify the definitions of waste. The standards and rules need to be enforced more strictly. For many raw materials, such as glass, wood, paper and plastic, we have objectives, but for phosphate we have no objectives. That is strange, because phosphate is a scarce raw material that is essential for our food supply. Why do we not have a target for the recovery of phosphate? After all, we can't get back what we're losing. Businesses and entrepreneurs also play an important role in environmental policy. The VVD has always hammered on that. So we also involve the organisations: from Shell to Greenpeace. They now fill in the ambitions that have been expressed at the climate summits we have organised. That's good. The VVD has confidence in the solutions of entrepreneurs. We trust that the innovative ideas they come up with will also work. This is about the challenges that we have here but also elsewhere in the world. I'll give you an example of a start-up in Delft. It is a young company that has been started by three entrepreneurs. They've come up with a solution. They put a kind of garden hose in the river with a wheel of shovels, allowing you to irrigate fields. So you can make many more areas fertile. I find that kind of small start-ups super interesting. There are real opportunities in cleantech. From the start-ups, brilliant solutions often come. If we are fully committed to innovation, we must also support those start-ups. Does the Secretary of State see it that way? What is it doing to help those start-ups? How do we improve the entrepreneurial environment for these young companies, who grow and have smart solutions from the Ministry of I and M? We are also doing fantastic things in the field of water management. Take protection from the sea in Jakarta. Our dredgers spray islands in the Persian Gulf. We provide expertise around the world: in New York, New Orleans and Miami, but also in Vietnam and in Bangladesh's deltas, which are occasionally plagued by storms and washing water. At international level it is often said: bring in the Dutch. That's a winged pronunciation. Closer to home, I see that we are doing tremendously well in the recycling sector. We have a leading position in the field of waste recycling. Previously 2.5 billion beverage cartons disappeared in the oven a year. We have tabled a motion on the recycling of beverage cartons and today the system has started. Drinking cartons are collected from consumers. About every other day you throw away such a pack of juice or dairy, but nowadays it is collected and can be processed into new products, into beautiful paper products. The circular economy is good for jobs and good for the environment; the VVD believes in that. Think also of food technology in the rest of the world, our crops and the knowledge of Wageningen University. Our knowledge is being used all over the world. Whether it's the coffee beans in Colombia, clean water in Gambia or the cattle in Kenya, we have a lot of knowledge. Think also of the satellite images that we can use to provide solutions. That's supermotivating. That all leads to opportunities again and there are opportunities. There are also opportunities close to home, but sometimes we leave them a little. Think, for example, of making the housing stock more sustainable. There's a barrier there, and that's too bad. Housing corporations aren't really speeding up yet. Why don't they? Why don't they look at that energy performance fee? How can they make small label steps? That's good for the tenant, good for the climate, good for everyone. For example, there are many good examples in which prosperity does not harm the environment. I'm rounding up. We do not have to surrender in our way of life, no compulsion, no consummates, no time or acidicness. We have everything we need to do smarter and better and meet the challenges, both at home and abroad, with all our knowledge and skills. We can export them to other countries to help them with innovation and policies that work. Working together on a better world, a more beautiful world for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u116	Finally, the VVD has also joined the belief that the Netherlands can simply be cleaner and smarter. I'm very happy about that. Let us work together on this. My compliments on that. We were all on the Square earlier today. Mr Dijkstra put on a T-shirt there that was offered to us by children from Amersfoort. They advocated much more attention for really clean air. My specific question is: does Mr Dijkstra of the VVD recognise that we need to do more than European standards to really ensure healthy air?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u117	We're working on that. We achieve European standards in 99,99% of cases. In a few inner urban areas, it doesn't work. The figures, that 12 kilometers, know Mrs Van Veldhoven. The VVD also strives for these standards of the World Health Organisation. There's not a certain year to that. The good thing is that I can already say that in 75% of cases we already have the standards for particulate matter (PM). For ultra-fine dust (PM) it is 32%. So we are very well on the way and we are striving for those stricter standards, but it is not very easy to set a date on that. We are moving in the right direction, and that is because we are very committed to resource policy. We make demands on manufacturers of cars, of machines, of everything that is produced, to do it cleaner and cleaner. You can see that this source policy is really paying off in cleaner air. And that's good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u118	I am glad that the VVD is now also saying that European policy really needs to be addressed. Those European standards are a paper reality when you talk about people's health. For source policy we must wait for Bulgaria. Of course, we're not going to do that. We will also have to take further action here. You can think of anything. I am thinking of such an extension and strengthening of the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme, in which the Empire takes responsibility for health. D66 is a strong supporter of this. Does the VVD share that? Does it support D66 in extending such an ambitious national policy on healthy air for people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u119	I'm not in favour of a headline on policy. D66 shouldn't want that either, because air doesn't stick to borders. A lot of our air, especially the dirt, comes from the Ruhr area, from the ring Antwerp and even Brussels, and from the sea. You have to pursue a source policy, but European. I thought D66 was also a European party. If we are going to get to the top of the policy, it is not going to make much progress. I am absolutely not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u120	Now you're contradicting yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u121	Secondly, the NSL. Yes, we recognize that there are still a few small bottlenecks...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u122	Try to avoid those abbreviations a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u123	The aim of the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme was to make our air cleaner. We've come a long way in that. We have invested a great deal of money in this; I believe that this is 320 million. That is being continued for about two years now. The major cities of Amsterdam and Rotterdam, the only ones with inner city problems, have both contributed around 8 million to solving these last bottlenecks. So we are well on our way there. Things are getting better one step at a time. The standards of the World Health Organisation are thus in sight. The VVD is absolutely not for headlines on policy. You have to do that European.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u124	Very technical: Mr Dijkstra contradicts himself. He has just said that we want to go beyond European standards. At the same time, he says he doesn't want to go beyond those standards. That's just not clear. If he wants to comply with WTO standards, he will opt for a headline on European policy. If he chooses European standards, he does not choose healthy air. I want to know where the VVD is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u125	The VVD opts for European standards. We get them in almost all cases. We are also working towards the standards of the World Health Organisation. They're also in sight for a very large part, and that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u126	This has everything to do with vision and long-term vision. I listened very carefully to the speech of the VVD. I have heard many fine examples from the country where we see a circular economy working. Now there was a climate summit in Rotterdam last week. Then 40 companies argued for a government vision. They want not only vision from the bottom, but also from the government. They ask for a climate law in which that vision is ultimately translated into concrete goals. Would the VVD want that, too? I missed that in the speech of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u127	I agree with the wishes of these companies. The Netherlands did not have a good track record, but we have now made a huge catch-up and we have set targets in the energy agreement until 2023. Thanks to Paris, we now also have targets for 2050. We have translated this into Europe, including in our own 2050 targets, to 80% to 95% CO reduction, with an intermediate target by 2030. But these companies want investment security. I understand. We have an energy agreement for the short and medium term and, fortunately, we now have a long-term perspective, but I find it so strange that the Chamber, very broad, is always talking about these agreements. Those companies want investment security. They want to know what they're up to. They don't care how we handle it, as long as we take care of it. That's what I'm here for. With the principles of the Paris Agreement and the translation of European objectives, we are a long way off. So we have the same goals, but we need to see which way to go. A climate law is a possibility, but on the other hand we have now set the targets. The point is that there is consistency in government policy. That's exactly what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u128	I want to get it a little sharper. Does the VVD look at the European goals and want to pursue them? Or is it prepared to really get to work, to translate the European goals into our own country and to see what we can do in our own country, also in places where we might need to do more, partly because of jobs, innovations, etc.? Is that the route the VVD recommends? Or is it in favour of European policy and that's it, and does it not want to set aside too many of its own goals from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u129	The beauty of the Paris agreement is that 195 countries and all kinds of organisations have committed themselves to it, globally. We prefer to conduct the policy globally. Europe is not just something! Hello! Europe has the most ambitious goals of anyone in the world! No one can match that. Please don't be fooled! That's a big misunderstanding. The Netherlands is simply participating in those European goals, which are the most ambitious in the world. Mr Trudeau in Canada can roll up his sleeves and look nice, but he's far from getting 40%. Mr Obama has fine words, but they don't come to that. Mr. DiCaprio has made a beautiful film very well, but he flies back and forth six times himself. So when it comes to setting an example and leadership, Europe is certainly the way. But let us also be realistic: Europe accounts for 11% of global emissions. The Netherlands makes an important contribution to this. These are the most ambitious targets; please don't be fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u130	No, I'm not gonna let anything fool me. I see that there is a European policy. That is very good and I am very pleased with that, but in the end we will have to translate it into our own goals as a country. We must pursue and harden them. We can write that down in the climate bill. In doing so, we are giving business the security of investment it is asking so strongly for. That's what I'm looking for. Does the VVD want us to work as the Netherlands with an ambitious climate policy? Are we going to write this down with each other to give our business and our civil society organisations the clarity they want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u131	We already do. The European targets, the 40% I mentioned, have also been translated into a Dutch goal. We have to do 36% in the areas of agriculture, transport and built-up environments. We must do 43% in the field of industry and energy. Those are super challenging targets. So we have been working for a long time and these goals are also being translated into Dutch policy at European level. That's what I stand for. I'm saying we're really going for one goal. What you should not do, but what happens very often now is that there are separate targets for renewable energy, for savings and for CO2. Those first two undermine that third. That's why emissions trading doesn't work. That is why the VVD has also put forward proposals to properly price emissions. That is why we have put forward proposals to make emissions trading really work, so that innovation gets a boost, because, of course, Mrs Faber, that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u132	Businesses, as well as local authorities and civil organisations, benefit greatly from good access to public sector information. Now this ministry has 185 datasets, eight of which are unlocked. I was curious to see if the VVD would like to ask the directors together with GroenLinks if that amount could be increased and see what is possible to give businesses, local authorities and citizens' organisations much more access to information that is not yet easily accessed, but is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u133	I've had a similar letter, I think. I'm in favour of measuring is knowing. Then we can have the debate on the basis of facts and figures. I know that there are a lot of figures, for example from the RIVM, which are simply accessible. I think that is a good thing. If you look at the figures, the Netherlands is doing really well. I can see that in all the rankings. So you can also reduce excesses when it comes to air quality. Yesterday in Arnhem they wanted to expand the environmental zone again, while there is no problem in Arnhem. So I think that opening up data is a good thing, and I also think that transparency is a good thing. Then we can finally have the debate on the basis of figures and justification and then see what the most effective measures are instead of what we are doing now. GroenLinks aldermen often think I'm sorry to have to say it on the basis of a kind of gut feeling that feels something good and then it doesn't work out. We saw it this morning in De Telegraaf. The GroenLinks alderman was very disappointed that air quality had not improved after a narrowed road. Yeah, you think it's crazy? If you slow down, you'll have more emissions. You have to look at facts and figures. If that's what you think, you'll find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u134	I don't understand the long explanation. There's a lot of stuff coming up, but it was a very simple question. I understand that we share the view more or less. Then together we ask the directors whether it is possible. It is a former colleague of both of us, Arjan El Fassed, who has been working for years to make this information more accessible to businesses, governments and civil organisations. So I am very happy that the VVD shares this. I look forward to the answer of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u135	We are also in favour of transparency. I await the proposals you are going to make in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u136	Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget discussion of this cabinet. It's good to have a look back. How'd it go? The title of the promising coalition agreement was Bruges beating. Well, the bridges in the Netherlands are in a depravable state. At least, that's what we suspect. However, the Minister does not know exactly. Bridges get cracks, tunnels fall pieces from the ceiling and viaducts threaten to collapse, but nobody knows exactly what's going on. At the end of the period of Beating Bridges it is good to make the balance. Is the minister a little satisfied with her work? The coalition agreement said about congestion: by investing we are going to fight traffic jams. Today we read at NOW.nl that we have a record with 925 kilometers of traffic in the evening pits tonight. So nothing has come of the intention of investing and fighting congestion. Nothing about investing and not fighting traffic jams. The ANWB is also presenting today a bottlenecks programme with 4,000 bottlenecks. A call for attention, because it hasn't been there in the last four years. Previously, the union of all transport partners in the Netherlands, led by EVO, had never before been so far as to cry out for action, because it was left out with this minister. The worst thing is that the minister himself always proudly calls out that the VVD also proudly said that she has cut 717 kilometers of ribbons in her ministry. By the way, these are not just ribbons ordered by previous cabinets. The Minister also says for convenience that, once she has built a five-lane road, she has built 5 kilometres of highway. But more tricks are being pulled out of the closet to mask this cabinet's austerity drive. EUR 11 billion was presented as extra money for infrastructure. After a jubilee vote, it turned out to be money that the future minister, at least, would not be this one anymore, because this minister indicated a long time ago that she had had it after this period of time could be spent before 2029 and 2030. So nothing "extra money." Money is being taken from the future. Anyway, it would be about new infra. That too turned out to be vain hope. After all, this 11 billion goes largely to almost 7 billion ECU in maintenance that was not budgeted. Nearly 1 billion goes to correcting the interest release. Of the 3.3 billion left over from this great 11 billion, the Minister is still making up one and a half billion, so that there is still 1.9 billion to be spent on new cabinets for new infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u137	I'm thinking about where I'll start. I've also been on the offer of the ANWB petition. I have heard Mr van Bruggen say that a large part of all the bottlenecks are no longer on the national roads, that the bottlenecks of the national roads are precisely in the MIRT and that they are being addressed. And on the spot is the A4. Perhaps you should go back in time. Who took the A4's route decision? I can help you: that was a CDA minister, Mr Eurlings. But let's not bring that up. Let me start with this state. I hear you shouting it's all a mess. Maybe it's good to take a look at the facts and figures. I have a table with me here, because I was just curious to see what's going on with those bridges like you. See this table? It states that the budget for replacement and renovation has gone from 37 million to 101 million euros per year and that the annual budget for road maintenance has gone from 314 million to 463 million from 2012 until now. Are you going to tell me that there is no money for replacement, renovation, management and maintenance? You know, this is really showing something else. Perhaps you should go back to the time before 2010, when this was not yet structured as it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u138	In the time of Willem van Oranje it was indeed a lot worse, but we do not hold the royal house responsible for that. How long does Rutte have to be Prime Minister before the VVD takes responsibility for what she chooses here? The VVD promised an additional 250 million annually. 250 million extra a year; check it out! And what did she do? 8 billion cuts. So you keep the voter insisting that you add 250 million extra and you cut 8 billion. And you can have any state you like, but you also know that the General Court has told our Chamber that the state of the bridges and tunnels is bad and that we do not even have a clear view of how bad it is. The cabinet is unable to make a difference between late maintenance or maintenance that has been deliberately pushed back. That is very serious and I would like to emphasise this. We're not even sure which bridge will squeak, creak or burst tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u139	This is total bullshit. It is nice that you do not want to answer my question at all and refer to Willem van Oranje, but I am asking very specifically about the situation before 2010. You cannot answer that, because you have no answer, because it was not settled at the time. Only in the 2012 budget was 3.8 billion structuralally earmarked for management, maintenance, replacement and renovation. It wasn't taken care of. You complain about it in such a way, but in this budget, again with the extension of the MIRT Fund, it was very consciously chosen to regulate management and maintenance in a structural way. When you had that responsibility, you didn't. But I'm gonna go back anyway. You blame the VVD for a lot of things, but then forget to mention that you yourself had promised all sorts of things, because you were also cutting back on roads in your election programme. What should be done, in your opinion, in a very specific way, in terms of management and maintenance, regardless of the inspections that are taking place, regardless of the money reserves? I would like to see a concrete proposal, because I did not hear that. I have heard many suggestive comments, but not a concrete proposal. I don't want to go back to the time of William of Orange. Just here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u140	I would very much like to, because we are discussing next year's budget. In this budget, the Court of Auditors has said that the situation of bridges and tunnels is depravable, poor and unclear. We don't know what's right and what's not right. Mrs Visser has just said that the CDA's electoral programme said that we need to cut back on roads. And why? That is precisely why Mrs Visser has just mentioned. We knew that an assignment had to be carried out. But what did the VVD do? She promised to spend 250 million in her election programme. Dear people, 250 million in infra. Once the VVD was at the wheel, she went sneaking short anyway. And what did we hear this morning? Mrs Visser said on national television, beautiful at WNL: from next year we will add EUR 250 million. So in election time, the VVD says "250 million more," but when she's at the wheel, she says she needs to be cut. And when the elections are back in the picture, as on television this morning, EUR 250 million will be added. The same Mrs Visser blames the CDA, which is not in the government and has only 13 seats, for taking a run at the electorate. That's how we know a few more!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u141	I did not mention the sum of 250 million at all this morning. I am therefore very curious to know where Mr Van Helvert got that from. Maybe he'll just...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u142	What would Mrs Visser then say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u143	Whoa, don't get mixed up. We've noticed that it's election time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u144	Maybe you'll let me finish. I am also very curious to see where exactly in that report of the Court of Auditors, to which Mr Van Helvert so much likes to refer, the word 'deplorable' stands. It doesn't say that! What it says is that there has been discussion about management and maintenance. We have often had debates here on whether this has actually been written off. I very much object to Mr Van Helvert putting words in my mouth that I did not say at all this morning. He refers to the report of the Court of Auditors and knows that a term such as 'deplorable' is not in it. The funniest thing is that I still haven't gotten an answer to my specific question. What needs to be done in concrete terms in terms of management, maintenance, replacement and renovation when it comes to what has not yet been settled? This Minister has been in charge of management, maintenance, replacement and renovation since she was here with this Secretary of State. For example, it has solved the problem with the A4, the biggest bottleneck. Perhaps another decision should have been made in 2008?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u145	That A4 cost almost 600 million for a few kilometers. But it's good that it's solved. I'm not allowed to use the word "deplorable." That's a wrong word. Mrs Visser would like to hear another word from the CDA about the poor situation in which the infrastructure is in. I'll put the question back. Look at the Merwede Bridge, the A27. What would Mrs Visser call the situation there? Is that a very good situation? Does she say it's fantastic that the Minister has solved that so well? What does she say about the bridge? It's horrible what's going on in there, isn't it? We knew that bridge was bad, but nothing happened. And then Mrs Visser says: you use wrong words in the Court of Auditors' report. It's just a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u146	Mrs. Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u147	I still have to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u148	I'm putting the question back and I'm running it a little bit here. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u149	It is very funny that Mr Van Helvert first uses very big words as 'deplorable' and links them to a report by the General Court, and now comes back to his words. He still hasn't answered my question. What happens to the Merwede Bridge is very, very, very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u150	Very annoying. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u151	I wasn't finished. That's caused a lot of trouble for all those truck drivers. I also called the doorbell right away. We know that bridge should have been dealt with in two months. We know there can always be force majeure. I don't want any more situations like the Merwede Bridge. That is precisely why management, maintenance, replacement and renovation must be in order, especially with all these bridges. That is precisely why we agree that substantial investment is being made and that a substantial budget is being set aside for management, maintenance, replacement and renovation. The CDA didn't do that. Mr Van Helvert blames the Minister for doing so and in passing says: well, that A4, it was a few hundred million, perhaps a wrong decision. I find it very strange for a CDA member of the Chamber to blame the VVD for the depravity of the situation and to say in passing: well, that A4 little error, a few hundred million, perhaps we should have made another decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u152	I didn't say that, by the way. I did say it cost 600 million. Anyway, the word "deplorable" must not be used. It's terrible, very annoying; you can say that sort of thing. Let us each choose his own words. But what should happen now? After the VVD has promised 250 million, but then has cut 8 billion, she now says to the CDA: tell you what needs to be done. Please note that the VVD is in the government; the Rutte cabinet cuts 8 billion after it has promised EUR 250 million a year and now says to the CDA: say what needs to be done. I'll tell you that. At the beginning of the period, we said, "Watch out, if you're going to make cuts now, you're going to get into trouble when the economy attracts. We can see that now. Then the Minister said: if the economy attracts and I see that we will get into trouble, then I will go to Dijsselbloem to make me strong to get the money that is needed. We'll hold the minister to that! So far we have not seen anything of that, but that is what needs to be done. I cannot imagine that Mrs Visser of the VVD disagrees with me. After all, she has also heard that her own minister has promised that she will go to Minister Dijsselbloem for extra money if necessary. The Minister has also been appointed to do so. That has not yet been done, but we think it should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u153	Mr Van Helvert still does not answer my very specific and simple question, but I have a point of order on the following. Mr Van Helvert stated that the General Court said it was deplorable. Then you use very big words, and you also refer to an official institution. I note that this is not true and I would like Mr Van Helvert to say that the General Court did not make this statement. I think that is an important point to note, because if Mr Van Helvert is screening with words from the General Court, they will get a certain stature, but that is not true, because they are his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u154	That is not a point of order; that is a substantive correction which you would like to make for your part and on which Mr Van Helvert can also say something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u155	I have already said to Mrs Visser: if you think it should be another word, what would you say about the A27? Then Mrs Visser came up with terms such as 'terrible','very bad' and 'extremely annoying'. I would like to take up those words from Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mrs Visser had asked another question. Have you answered this question or are you still giving that answer, Mr Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u157	Sorry, shall I continue with the argument or do you say: first the interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u158	Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u159	We are interrupting now, so I have no objection if there is still an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u160	Can I understand that CDA meant that this is his own conclusion as a result of the Court's words that the information is not in order at the moment? Read: that you can't actually say exactly if you know everything. The Court of Auditors is actually saying that you may have invented definitions, and he acknowledges that this minister has done the same, but that it is a serious matter if you do not then know the difference between late maintenance and maintenance that you have yet to commit or which you do not even know you have to commit. Is the conclusion of Mr Van Helvert himself that he finds that unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u161	That does not seem to me to be wise, because it is precisely with regard to the Merwede Bridge that I myself asked the Minister: is this delayed maintenance or deliberately postponed maintenance? That wasn't known. So we can't even say that right now. That is a very bad thing. Last year we saw a report by, I believe, Rijkswaterstaat himself on the situation of tunnels in the Netherlands. It's not good either. It's not going well with the maintenance. That's just dangerous if not even becoming life-threatening. We are making a point of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u162	That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u163	So I was talking about that hosanna story of "look, we have 11 billion in new infrastructure." In the end, only 1.9 of that was left, because everything else that wasn't previously budgeted, had been budgeted away. But that amount too is not yet certain. So the minister not only cuts, but she also picks up the wallet of the future and shows off the feathers of a cabinet after her. Then you think you've had the worst, but until 2028 there's also 1.6 million annual budget cuts. So there is also a reduction in what is left, and that is not much. If you put that up against the promised 250 million of the VVD in advance, that's pretty bad. I have already mentioned the point of the road with this. I'm on my way now. On that point, the Minister and, of course, the Secretary of State leave us in ignorance. Following the Fyra survey, in which the NS got a big swipe, ProRail, which was not blamed in that report, was pulled under the wings of the Ministry as punishment. Please note: we are talking about ProRail, that the board has completely renewed on the instructions of this cabinet and that all the targets have been achieved in the past year. That company is brought under the wings of the Ministry and the Dutch Railways get the 325th chance to try again on the line. Conductors are still beaten up, molested, threatened, kicked or spit every day. All agreed measures from a year ago have still not been implemented. And, what I might find even worse: people are afraid to report it all the time. They don't report because they don't think anything's gonna happen to it. Or they don't report because they ask multiple questions like "Are you threatened again? Are you doing all right?" Or "Don't you even have to go to class?" Or "Aren't you in your skin?" Or "Aren't you supposed to do something else?" There is still uncertainty as to whether this can still be done. The CDA thinks it's very important that it's reported. So much for the trail. As far as inland waterway transport is concerned, the alarm clock is also sound. There is poor maintenance in inland waterway transport. The locks and bridges are operated no more or much less. And that is when inland waterway transport is precisely the solution to the heavy traffic on the road and on the railways. The maritime sector raises many concerns. We heard it in the recent round table. The corporate tax in the ports is such an objection. Captains must choose a different flag in order to use the advantages offered by other countries. And we're not doing anything about it. Furthermore, we do not meet the obligations of MARE, the Scientific Institute for Maritime Affairs, while we expect businesses to fulfil their obligations to us. I come to the aviation sector. We remain in uncertainty about KLM. Last week, the Secretary of State and the Minister said that we could go to sleep quietly and that they would watch over KLM. Today we read in the newspaper that the cabinet did not object to plans by the holding company in Paris to allow parts of KLM to go to the holding company. We wonder: is it true what we read in the newspaper today, or not, and what about it? Furthermore, the Schiphol Environment Council is no longer available. There too, everyone remains in ignorance. I would like to mention all this in the light of the question: are we satisfied with the way things have been in this area over the last four years? Road safety is a long way from the Minister's agenda. For years and years, the number of casualties and the number of deaths in traffic fell, but since this year those numbers have risen again. The Minister does not directly see it as her task to really go for it, despite the widely adopted motion. When cars are flashed with a foreign license plate, the cabinet doesn't even bother to collect the fines. In this respect, too, an amendment is needed to do something. The Netherlands is still a free racetrack for Eastern Europeans. The CDA says this has to be different. The CDA has already asked for a smart mobility plan. The ANWB is asking for that today. If we want to be able to move today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, then we will have to stop ticking off projects all the time: look how many kilometers here, this bridge here, that tunnel there. If we want to get rid of that, then we have to get out of the tubes of either shipping, or rail, or road, or aviation. We need to talk about mobility in the Netherlands. Businesses want to co-invest in infrastructure, but there must be a fair payback period for that. If only a few projects are tendered, where a company is seen as the performer of a project at the lowest possible price, then you do not use the power of such a company. We need to see these companies as partners and invite them to join us in thinking about mobility in the Netherlands in 2030 and beyond. We'll ask the Minister. I would also mention the distribution of infrastructure funds: 80% goes to the Randstad and 20% to the regions. Does the Minister think that's reasonable? Does she think that's a reasonable distribution? The CDA also says in this: it really doesn't have to be all on a gold scale. We also understand that we need to get a little more to the Randstad. However, please note that 47% of the inhabitants of the Netherlands live in the region and 48% of the gross domestic product is earned in the region. Then is that 80%/20% distribution reasonable, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u164	For a moment I thought, when we were at the bridges: well, the CDA has a pretty good story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u165	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u166	But then Mr Van Helvert suddenly went on to shout out that Eastern Europeans are responsible for a number of offences and then get no fines. Can he also make it clear that this is about Eastern Europeans? Or does he just make that up a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u167	No, I'm definitely not making that up. I have also asked two questions about it, together with Mr Omtzigt: one question and one follow-up. It is actually the same point that Mrs Visser just mentioned. She mentioned Italians and Romanians as examples. I took it a little wider. I didn't take the Italians, but I mentioned the Eastern Europeans. People from a number of countries in Eastern Europe drive in the Netherlands, and when they are flashed, the Minister does not bother to send the fine to the address in Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u168	So we are talking about Eastern Europeans, but we are also talking about people from other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u169	Yeah, it's also about people from Italy. Perhaps Mrs Visser can mention a few more, but we have raised a number of questions, as have Mrs Visser of the VVD. We believe that the Minister should take the trouble to collect these fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u170	I hear Mr Van Helvert use a lot of big words. He called our tunnels life-threatening and referred to a report by Rijkswaterstaat. Our tunnels are among the safest in Europe and they comply with current safety standards. I'm reading from the report. I also read every time we are in the top five of the world when it comes to our infrastructure. However, according to Mr Van Helvert, management and maintenance are such a mess that there must be a sentence in the electoral programme. I'm sure there's something in there that's gonna have to sort things out. But when I read it, I see "on the road to smart mobility" and words like "management," "maintenance," "replacement" and "renovation" are not included. So Mr Van Helvert is using a lot of big words here. I think I have asked for it five times now, but Mr Van Helvert has not yet given a specific answer to my question as to what should be done. He doesn't know that either. If it had really been such a problem, it would have been in the election programme. It's not there. Mr Van Helvert, can you help me? If it's not in the election program, it's a little weird, don't you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u171	As far as I know, we have a draft election programme. That is what we are adopting on 12 November. I propose that we talk about the current budget and what the CDA has brought in through me as a spokesman. That seems to me a sensible point to make. That seems to me to be something that has been established. In my opinion, I have already answered Mrs Visser's question, namely that what the Minister himself promised must be done. However, I will repeat it for Mrs Visser. The question was what should happen after the VVD promised 250 million a year, but cut 8 billion. The CDA told the cabinet to pay attention, because we would get into trouble if the economy attracted. The Minister then said that in that case she would go to Dijsselbloem to ask for extra money. Now, that's what needs to happen. That was my answer. The minister would go to Dijsselbloem to arrange it, and she simply didn't. And We appointed her for it. Like a mak lamb she always says it happens to her and that there's nothing to do about it. But we just appointed that minister to take care of that for us. We're in the same boat, the minister and us. If the Minister says she's going to Dijsselbloem, we want her to go to Dijsselbloem and come back with money for infrastructure. It has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u172	It is very nice that we have also received a counter-budget from the CDA in the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews to give more substance to it. I would have asked the SP the same question. I didn't see it at the CDA either. But still, because Mr Van Helvert always refers to promises and the minister but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u173	Can I have a quick one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u174	He has not so far given a reply to the substance of the matter. If I confront him with his words, the only thing he does is refer to the General Court of Auditors and the Rijkswaterstaat, when it is then wrong when I read it. If Mr Van Helvert really thinks that it is so bad with management and maintenance here in the Netherlands, that it is deplorable and that our tunnels are not safe, should there have been at least one sentence in the CDA election programme? That's not what it says. Apparently, the problem for the CDA isn't that big. I am very curious about the final election programme, including the finances. But let us note that this Minister has put things in order together with her Secretary of State. It's not sexy; that's what I said. More needs to be done, that is absolutely true. I note that Mr Van Helvert does not answer my question as to what needs to be done in concrete terms in terms of management, maintenance and replacement. I have referred to the facts, but the words used by Mr Van Helvert are electoral rhetoric and have no substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u175	This isn't the first time we've said it. Even in the first few years, my predecessor has said something about it, or Mrs Visser should think that the CDA has been running for four years for an election. That is actually the case, because we constantly want to show that we are there for the citizens and not just in the elections, as the VVD does. With the elections they promise 250 million, they cut 8 billion and a few weeks before the elections they promise 250 million again at WNL. That is not what we are doing. Mrs Visser mentioned that I would find it all so bad here, but let me turn the question: if everything is so fantastic and things are so great in the Netherlands, why does Mrs Visser promise this morning that many hundreds of millions of extra money will have to go to infrastructure? Then why did she do it? She asks me, but she herself says it's fantastic here when there's more money to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u176	This is called entrapment. I'll just point out the clock, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u177	I'm sorry, but this is a real twist of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u178	How much did Mrs Visser promise on TV this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u179	Mr Van Helvert obviously hears what he wants to hear. Maybe he can see the broadcast again. I have said that a great deal has been done over the past period. As far as the VVD is concerned, we continue with this and go one step further. I have also noted that we have not achieved everything. Unfortunately, this is not possible if your country is in one of the biggest economic crises of recent years. We try to make it better every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u180	And now without repetitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u181	I missed the CDA in that. The CDA uses very big words. I trust that she will show in her election programme that more money needs to go to infra. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is absolutely necessary. We are going to do so in the next period. I am very curious about the CDA's concrete approach to management, maintenance and replacement. I haven't seen that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u182	Mr Van Helvert, I would also like to hear an answer from you without repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u183	As bad as the VVD did last time, it can't be. I have answered the questions, not with what Mrs Visser wants to hear, but I have answered them. Let me continue with my speech. Does the Minister think that this division is justified? Is it prepared to include the bottlenecks mentioned, for example, by the ANWB, but also by entrepreneurs at an earlier stage at a top 12 of bottlenecks, in a smart mobility plan? So we should not look at it on a project-by-project basis. We need to see how we make sure we don't stop. We also need to bridge those tubes of shipping, shipping, aviation and rail. Will the Minister do that? How does the Minister leave the country? How does it pass on the land in the field of infrastructure? The CDA is for clean air, but against a patchwork of different environmental zones. We've had a long discussion about that, too. Because the minister doesn't take the direction here either, freewheels are now on the loose. However, a small EUR 4 million has been made available for small businesses. After all, not all small entrepreneurs can just buy a new van because the alderman of their municipality or neighbouring municipality suddenly decides with a pin stroke that an environmental zone is being set up. However, this money is still on the shelf and has not reached entrepreneurs. Whether the Minister will ensure that the environmental zones stop, perhaps that would be best, so that the patchwork is gone, or the promised money should end up with the entrepreneurs. We also see in this budget that we are waiting and watching how we distribute that money. How does the Minister leave the infra behind? There are more traffic jams than ever. There are more road deaths and road injuries. Bridges and tunnels are in very bad condition or in not so pleasant condition; so I have to say now. ProRail has been left in ignorance, while all targets have been met. Poison trains run much more than agreed by large cities and small cores. KLM is being hollowed out by Paris. There's not enough military for security at Schiphol. Inland waterways are poorly maintained. Sea ports have a tax disadvantage. Our ships can't protect themselves from pirates. Is the Minister satisfied with her results? Does the Minister consider the 80% and 20% distribution between Randstad and the region to be justified? What else is the Minister going to do about road safety? Is the Minister going to draw up a smart mobility plan or is she going to stick to the drawing-up of small projects? Those are the questions the CDA is asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u184	I'll be brief. I really only have one question for Mr Van Helvert. Could he mention three points in which he is a little positive about what the cabinet has done? Or isn't he going to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u185	I'd certainly like to do that. Thank you for this interruption. I actually had four pages with positive points, but I had no more speaking time to read them. I believe that the Secretary of State is very well involved in cross-border public transport. The CDA has always been committed to good connections with the train to Aachen, Cologne, Liège and Brussels. The CDA also wanted a very good connection via Düsseldorf to Berlin. We believe that the Secretary of State is on the right track. We're not here yet, but I'd like to say something positive about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u186	Point two?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u187	Point two. Then I'll have to look at page 2 of my extra notes. What we thought was a very good action was the start of the Secretary of State. When she first started, she immediately understood that she had to travel to Paris to defend KLM's interests. We would like the Secretary of State to carry on with this very good point, this good start, because the aid from the Secretary of State is certainly necessary at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u188	Point three!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u189	The third point, Mr President, is that the Secretary of State is working well on poison trains in terms of intent. She sees the problem and wants to maintain it. We see, however, that at the moment it is shifting the problem somewhat. There are less poison trains on the Brabant route, but as a result some more on other routes. We would prefer to see inland waterway transport used much more so that the poison trains or the poison wagons would really get off the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u190	The minister's out of the price range.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u191	I'd like to come back to the NS and the HSL South. We have heard the CDA talk about this very often and intensely lately. The CDA says the NS shouldn't do that. Actually, I agree with the CDA. In 2014, after all the problems with the Fyra, we had a debate on whether we would place the concession for the HSL South in the national concession to the NS or not. The PVV felt that the NS had done so badly on the line for the Fyra that we should not do so and that we should give other parties the chance to spend on this. I tabled a motion on 16 October 2014. That was almost on the day after two years ago and so not so long ago. Who amazes me that the CDA voted against that motion? The CDA also found after all the problems with the Fyra that the NS should get that concession. And what does the NS do? It's gonna order equipment and make plans. Now, two years later, the CDA says take that concession away from the NS. That's a huge loss of capital, isn't it? Why didn't the CDA have that wisdom back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u192	The advantage of not being in the government for a while is that people have to go back and forth to blame you for something. That is true, but Mr Madlener is right on this point. We have also discussed this once, in my view, in the debate on the Fyra. I can imagine that at that time we wanted to give the Dutch Railways a last chance. Looking back, I see that we could have said better at that time: we want to tender. That was the last time we did that, but then the Dutch Railways disappointed us again. From that moment on, my predecessor Sander de Rouwe and later on, I have taken his point of view very seriously: let that tender be different, let other people think along with me about that region. Mr Madlener, I think I have already said this to you in the debate on the Fyra. With the knowledge of today, I should have said that we should have supported your motion. I can imagine when we said: we want to give the Dutch Railways one more chance. That's a very sincere answer, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u193	Mr Van Helvert admits in part that, in retrospect, it was not such a good decision. I would like to point out to Mr Van Helvert that, when we made that decision two years ago, it was not very long ago that Mr Van Helvert was already aware of exactly what the NS intended to do on that line. Then the CDA said, "Good, go ahead." Now the CDA comes back to that and says: the NS does it all wrong and still remove that concession. That causes a huge loss of capital, because the trains have been ordered. If you tell them to stop now, you know that the taxpayer pays, because the NS is 100% of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u194	Yes, and Mr Madlener would like to keep it that way. I think this has to be longer than two years ago, because I've been in the Chamber for two years now. So it'll be a little longer. I said what I said on it. I think that was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u195	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Mulder from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u196	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a compliment to the Secretary of State for her action at the 2016 National Climate Summit. The CDA would like us to work with her on the implementation of the climate agreement concluded in Paris last year in the interests of future generations. We also thank the Secretary of State for sending the agreement so that it can be ratified. Much remains to be done under the climate treaty. In order to follow that closely, it is important to know how monitoring is organised. Hopefully more agreements have been reached in the United Nations. Maybe the Secretary of State can inform us about that. The CDA is convinced that new products, savings and reuse of raw materials offer great opportunities for Dutch industry. The raw materials agreement is a first good step here. It makes us less dependent, and that seems to us to be wise. In the field of raw materials, the CDA calls for a link with the top sectors policy, the energy agreement and the global goals. Is that what the Secretary of State wants? If so, how is she going to do that? In the budget of I and M, there are few resources to detach the transition to a CO-neutral economy. Can the Secretary of State see if it is possible to make room for the raw materials agreement in the Waste Fund? The CDA would like us to invest much more in this transition. We see opportunities for a development bank for the transition to a CO-neutral economy. Finance and Economic Affairs are already considering an energy transition facility, which I still think is a terrible name. To what extent is I and M involved? How is coordination with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation? The FMO, the development bank for third world countries, has been doing fantastic work in high-risk countries with high-risk investments for years. The equity of the FMO has grown from nearly 600 million guilders at the start to 2.5 billion euros now. Isn't that an inspiring example of such a transition facility? What exactly is this facility gonna look like? How can society benefit from investments made in a CO-neutral economy? Is there also a good link with the European funds that are for this? How does the Secretary of State see all this happening? What's she gonna do about it? The CDA also wants the government to have a major incentive role in the transition through sustainable purchasing. There is now a plan of action, but monitoring is also crucial. How are we going to shape it? Will it be agreed with local authorities this year? If the monitoring will then be at the Ministry of I and M, I ask the Secretary of State. Last week we had the debate on Mainports past, the report of the Rli. Three motions were passed today. Can the Minister indicate on Thursday how she intends to implement it? There's a lot of tension on those motions. The CDA is very happy that Brainport Eindhoven is now really seen as mainport. We don't understand why the Minister didn't like that. Can she go into that? Then there's asbestos. We see too little progress in optimising the reorganisation process to make it cheaper. This was just another debate between Mr Smaling and the colleague of the VVD. We have not seen enough of the concrete implementation programme for asbestos roofs. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of this year how this is going? I'll leave it at that, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u197	Thank you very much. I'll take a look around. I've seen both rulers run away for a while in between, so I'm assuming I don't have to suspend. Then let's move on. I give the floor to Mrs Cegerek.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u198	Mr. Chairman. The figures say that the Dutch economy is improving and that new jobs are being created, but there are also concerns about tomorrow's employment. And that while we are on the verge of a second industrial revolution. We are turning from a disposable economy to a circular economy; an economy that no longer produces waste, but in which everything is reused. The PvdA aims to provide people with new security and new connectivity by acquiring a vanguard position in the field of reuse and recycling. The circular economy is the job engine of the future. Rabobank and TNO have calculated that the circular economy can generate between 50,000 and 80,000 jobs and cost savings of over 7 billion euros for business. Less waste and pollution are necessary because we want to leave this planet well behind for generations after us. The circular economy minimizes the waste of raw materials and water. This is only going to work if we put our backs on it together, because together we are the only way forward. The prevention of waste and the reuse of raw materials generate not only economic gains, but also environmental gains. A good example is the ban on plastic disposable bags. This reduces the amount of plastic in circulation, which shows all the figures, and makes a significant environmental gain; it also leads to savings for entrepreneurs. Most Dutch people are now used to the new way of doing things and bring a bag with them. Every plastic bag that is not being used is a step towards a better environment. In the meantime, there are also good examples in the circular economy of how to combine a better environment with economic opportunities. Take Circular Friesland, for example, with a project to make waste containers. Another example is the Zeeland project Smart Delta Resources. Through tubes, heat, hydrogen and other residuals are exchanged instead of being lost. A committee led by former Prime Minister Balkenende advocates supporting this project through an employment fund to be formed. The PvdA Group is in favour of checking whether this project is also easy to support through the state-wide circular economy programme. Can the Secretary of State take a serious look at that? The circular economy offers opportunities for our regions, such as Friesland, Zeeland and Gelderland. We see great examples of partnerships. Today, a motion from the PvdA was adopted to look at the obstacles, such as the financial instruments. I hope that the Secretary of State will take this up quickly and fill it in quickly. There are many opportunities, but the obstacles are often just as great. Good initiatives therefore sometimes need a little support. There are major steps to be taken towards a circular economy if large industrial companies coordinate their waste and raw materials flows more closely. That is why we have advocated a commodity agreement and a knowledge base. We expect this to be as practical as possible, so that the waste from one company can serve as a raw material for the other company. I'm here for air quality. People in the Netherlands live on average four months shorter by air pollution with nitrogen dioxide and about nine months shorter by exposure to fine dust. This was definitely established by the RIVM last year. A good measure to improve air quality in inner cities in particular is the greening of the environment. My colleagues Henk Leenders and Lutz Jacobi have therefore argued for more nature and water in the inner cities. In addition, we have an air quality action plan, with €16 million allocated to the cities of Rotterdam and Amsterdam. We would like to extend this Air Quality Action Plan to other major cities. We also want the air quality standards set by the World Health Organisation to be included as targets. Today we received a petition on this subject. If it's all right, the Secretary of State knows the contents of the petition. It calls for a national air quality action plan. How does the Secretary of State view the extension of the action plan? In October last year, the northern GGDs published a report showing that the amount of fine dust released by burning wood exceeds health limits and that the emissions of wood stoves are no less risky than those of traffic. People with lung problems may suffer from smoke in certain weather conditions. If the wind is still or if there is fog, the smoke lingers in the immediate vicinity. Few people know about this, however. In Belgium there is therefore a fire alarm: in the case of little wind or fog, the government gives a non-committal advice, a friendly request to take account of each other. Many people do not know that others can suffer from the burning of wood in such weather. The Longfonds therefore advocates such a system in the Netherlands. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u199	I see Mr Madlener jumping up for a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u200	A very brief question, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Cegerek's group and her group chairman, Mr Samsom, have arranged for pallet stoves, including wood stoves, to be abolished with subsidies. It's a good way to warm up your house. But yeah, if there's a fire alarm coming, I'm in the cold!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u201	Yeah, that's what needs to be looked at. I agree with Mr Madlener that this is not entirely compatible. Here too, we need to see to what extent we can make it more sustainable. As I just said, a lot of people don't know that it's bad for the environment and for health.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u202	Especially Mr Samsom doesn't seem to know that. Perhaps you could inform Mr Samsom that it is not such a good idea for some people to subsidise those pallet heaters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u203	That must then be assessed as a whole. Like I said, we should do a little more on the image of wood-burning. It's not always that durable. Mr. Chairman. I had another question about shipping. There too, much remains to be done if we want to green up. Studies show that this is possible through, for example, the conversion of engines and the adoption of energy-saving measures. Is the Minister talking to the sector to green up shipping as well? What is it going to do to make this a success? My final point concerns the dumping of drug waste. In 2014, we made EUR 1 million available to combat the dumping of this waste. At the time, this was common in Brabant. Now there's a pretty successful drug task force for Brabant and Zeeland. In Gelderland, the problem is also beginning to arise. Almost every month we read in the news that such waste is dumped here and there. That's dangerous. It's bad for the environment, but it's also bad for the people. In Gelderland there is also a plea for a drug task force. How does the Secretary of State view it? To what extent does the polluter-pays principle apply here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u204	Mr. Chairman. We're going from Whim to Zedda today. Since the President does not like abbreviations, I will explain them later in this story. The first Whim is from Helsinki. It's not an abbreviation, it's a name. It's a name for a mobility service that's better than your own car. Whim is actually a bit the Netflix of Scandinavia. With Netflix, you don't have to own a movie you want to watch, but you can watch it because you pay it to the person who has the right to distribute the movie. With a monthly fee, you can watch as many movies as you want. What if it were possible for a fixed amount to have access to all modes of transport, brought together by one supplier? What Spotify does with music, what Netflix does with movies, Whim does with transport in Helsinki. For a monthly fixed amount you buy points that you can use for the bike, the car, the train, the bus, the metro or the taxi. I don't even know if there's a metro in Helsinki, but that aside. This way we travel greener, more efficient and cheaper. The question is, of course, whether there are any obstacles in the legislation in the Netherlands to do so. Wouldn't it be time for an experiment? Why can't we just do this in our country? A few recent reports show a strong demographic shift towards large cities, a greater displacement than expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u205	Mrs Visser wants to know more about Whim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u206	Yeah, I'm interested right away. Perhaps, as a committee, we could make a work visit to Helsinki. Mr Van Helvert asked the same question to the Secretary of State. I wonder if Mr Van Helvert himself is willing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u207	Mr Hoogland, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u208	Mr Hoogland indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u209	I'm never gonna forgive you for this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u210	Mr Hoogland, I apologize. You look really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u211	It is a good thing that Mr Van Helvert is not here for a moment. We'll get on with it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u212	I guess I miss him. Mr Hoogland is shocked, I apologize for this unforgivable mistake, but I'm sure it'll be fine. I'll be back on Whim. We have the Passenger Transport Act in the Netherlands, as Mr Hoogland knows, and it contains concessions. These concessions protect because they ensure that other carriers are not allowed to enter. Is Mr Hoogland prepared, for example, to adapt the concession we have granted to the NS for ten years, precisely in order to be able to use such a mobility service as Whim?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u213	I can be very brief in my answer to that question, especially with regard to the last part. We are not prepared to do so, because we believe that the railway is a public service. We believe that it is a good thing that this contract has been awarded to the NS and that they serve it, naturally in accordance with the requirements they must meet. But Whim is about combining existing services in such a way that you can make more efficient use of existing modes, that you get fewer cars in the center because people ride more with each other and that you can make better use of the mode of transport available at that time. I do not know whether it is necessary to break down the Passenger Transport Act immediately, but that is also part of my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u214	It is clear that Mr Hoogland is saying on that line: at least that is not our intention. I therefore read it more as a call to facilitate the payment market, so that you can buy it as easily as possible. Did I understand it so well, or did Mr Hoogland mean anything else? Whim sounds beautiful, of course, but I'm trying to understand exactly what Mr Hoogland wants with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u215	That's a fair question. The payment market is indeed part of it, but it is more than that. It means that the companies currently operating must also be prepared to look beyond their borders. For example, they must take the risk that there will be more or less passengers in their service. That is where the role of the government comes in, because it will at least have to play a facilitating role in this. That doesn't necessarily have to be the government. Of course, that can also be the contracting authorities. I will continue my speech. A few recent reports show that there is a demographic shift towards large cities and that it is stronger than initially expected. This demand also applies to public transport, in which there will be strong growth, including in the Randstad area. If we don't do something about that now, those cities are gonna swallow up. The question is, in fact, how this growth can be accommodated, and above all through clean and efficient modalities. I have a number of questions in mind for the Secretary of State, in particular those recent reports from the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment, and the CBS, the Central Statistical Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u216	Those abbreviations are getting better and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u217	Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider how transport demand will develop in the future? What kind of ways is that gonna happen? I mentioned Whim as an example, but it's about looking for smart ways of organizing. I think that's a bit of a D66 text and I'm not one of them, but it's good to be able to shape transport in a modern way. What investments are specifically needed for this in the BDU? The BDU is the broad target benefit, which finances public transport in the big city. Would the Secretary of State be willing to inform the Chamber about this? In short, this is a vision of the future of a new form of public transport. At the next point, anyone can stand up for his or her interruption, namely pay per kilometer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u218	Don't make fun of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u219	I expect it to happen, because Mr Smaling has just gone through it. The PvdA believes that paying per kilometer is an effective way to reduce car traffic on the roads and increase average travel speed. The latter will certainly appeal to a number of people here. It happened in London in 2003, Stockholm in 2007 and Milan in 2008. In Stockholm the number of journeys in the city decreased by 22% and in the drives to the city 16% of the loss time...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u220	Sorry to interrupt. I ask Members to listen to the input. If you wish to discuss motions or whatever, I would ask you to do so elsewhere than in this Chamber. Mr Hoogland, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u221	The number of accidents decreased, air quality improved and O/V use even increased. I look at the Minister with my most charming eyes. I know the coalition agreement says it's not going to happen, but could the minister reflect on the following? More asphalt can be effective in some places. This minister is the minister of the extra connections. She calls that herself the "missing links." But RAI Vereniging, the BOVAG and the ANWB also say that paying per kilometer can be useful. If the PvdA also says so, wouldn't the Minister be willing to look into it again? There are no interruptions. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u222	What did I say? Mr Houwers and Mrs Belhaj are now walking to the interrupting microphone. Mr Houwers takes longer because he comes from the back of the room. So Mrs. Belhaj gets to go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u223	When I hear this inspiring story of the PvdA, I wonder if Mr Hoogland has just listened with surprise to the story of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u224	Yeah, I think it's a very amazing story, but it's entirely in line with expectation. So I find it amazing from my own perspective, but when I move into the liberal........................................................................................................................................................... That image doesn't surprise me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u225	It is, of course, very tempting to explain to the PvdA what liberalism is. But the liberalism of the VVD means that it says it wants to offer people a choice, when it is not really a real choice. Of course, you can't choose whether you're in a traffic jam for 20 or 25 minutes. Does Mr Hoogland agree with D66 that real choices and real freedom can only be achieved if, as a government, you also offer real choices, opportunities and opportunities to people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u226	In my view, this is typically a liberal debate that should actually take place between the VVD and D66. Then they can find out what true liberalism is all about. For us, it is vital that people be able to get from A to B efficiently. That is not something that wakes me up at night or makes me emotional; we need to deal with it efficiently. That's all I can make of it; I just can't do it. I also see that there are problems in this area and that additional investment is needed, both on the road and in public transport. I am now putting forward a proposal which goes beyond all the modalities. In any case, liberalism should be able to do something with this from the point of view of freedom of choice. That's my modest contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u227	From the point of view of freedom of choice and the idea that the user pays, you could find something and perhaps be in favour of it. However, it is a very expensive system, a system with a lot of things attached to it. There are also many intermediate routes. Is Mr Hoogland prepared to think about other forms of behavioral influence? Maybe he's given it some thought. It is a question of behavioral influence. Wouldn't it be much more social to ensure that the people who work hard can get to work decently, but then perhaps at other times? Does Mr Hoogland wish to express his opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u228	That's an interesting thought. It is already happening in colleges and public transport. There are a number of projects from the Ministry, in particular to avoid rush hour and use other modalities. So I think that's something that's being considered. Eventually, it's the question of what you think is fair. Do you think it's fair that people pay for using their car or just for having him at the door? Well, then we choose the first. That means you're gonna pay by mile. If you don't drive much, you'll pay a little less than you do now. You drive a lot, you pay a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u229	We are naturally already paying for use, firstly for the possession of the car and secondly through excise duty. Consumption therefore leads to tax payments. Mr Hoogland only advocates a different system, a somewhat more complicated one. Could you, apart from the price per kilometer, come to other forms, with which you stimulate people? I know that some of these systems are tricky, complicated and susceptible to fraud, but from employers and from the government there is much more that can be done to get that spread. We do that on vacations. Then why shouldn't it just be in everyday traffic?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u230	Anything's possible. The point here is that paying per kilometer both has an effect on the fairness of paying........................................................................................................................................................................................... In the end, it is a measure that can cut on several sides. I agree with Mr Houwers that you need to introduce such a clever measure. That only requires one thing, namely that I'm not going to draw that out here. People who really know how to do that have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u231	We are back in the past with the PvdA: the billing is magical again. It is therefore being used as a means of combating congestion. Who exactly should leave that car in that rush hour? Which people can't take the car anymore? Who's gonna lose weight? Who is it made too expensive by you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u232	The question of who should lose weight is more a question that belongs to Mr Madlener's party than to our party. There's no need to lose any of us, Mr Madlener. Everyone is welcome to live in the Netherlands as they wish. This is not an old proposal. It is a proposal the PvdA has been advocating for years. It's just not in place this cabinet period. We are consistent in how we look at the use of the car. We are in favour of making the payment per kilometre.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u233	Of course, that's the case now. In our proposal, the tax on property, the tax on roads, is halved. You pay that road tax through the excise duties. If you drive a lot, you're gonna fill up and pay more excise duty. We already know that system. You say we're gonna make it so expensive, we're gonna solve the traffic jams with it. People would leave the car. That's the plan, that's the policy, it's called charging. I'm asking you, who's gonna leave the car? Who are those drivers who, thanks to your policy, are no longer able to choose that car?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u234	That's no one at all. I think I've made myself clear. We have wanted this for many years. We want to be honest. We want to make sure that people who drive a lot also pay a lot. The user pays. I couldn't disagree with that principle. Mr Madlener wants to lower car taxes and cover this by de-islamizing the Netherlands. They're choices I wouldn't make. If I were Mr Madlener, I would look closely at the coverage of my own proposal before he criticises our proposal. What we say is very easy. If you use the car a lot, you pay a lot. If you don't use the car very much, you pay a little less. It can't be any more honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u235	I am not talking about the PvdA's immigration policy. I know you want to make things more and more busy in the Netherlands. But now you want to solve the files by entering billing. Then I ask you who should leave the car. And then you say, "No one." If no one leaves the car, then of course the traffic jams don't disappear either. Either you make it so expensive that some people leave the car because they can't afford it anymore, or you say everyone has freedom of choice and gets the car. In the latter case, the traffic jams are not gone. Please don't fool people now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u236	I would like the world to be as easy as Mr Madlener is proposing. Then you have a choice. You leave the car or you don't leave it and that solves the problem. You can see that the introduction of a tax per kilometre affects people's behaviour: the way they use the car and the way they travel. This is an effective way of reducing the number of traffic jams. Sometimes building an extra road or widening a strip is also effective, as are all kinds of other measures we take. Maybe my answer is a little too substantive, but this is how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u237	I would point out once again that we would keep the interruptions short. Mrs. Visser, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u238	I'm going to ask a short question. What Mr Hoogland explained was not so much a general mileage tax as an urban congestion tax, as it is so beautifully called. So what does the PvdA argue for? Secondly, does this not apply to the entire mobility chain, Mr Hoogland? You are talking about the motorist, but if you embrace that principle in this way, how do you see it throughout the mobility chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u239	It is good to review the VVD at this point. Just now the remark was made that everyone here is sometimes in the field, but I don't know about that. You also pay for your use in the O.V. You have an O.V. chip card. It'll check you in and check you out. Then you pay an amount per kilometer traveled. That starts with a starting rate. Fortunately carriers work together and you get when you travel long, so you don't have to deal with the same amount per kilometer. Otherwise long travel would be very expensive. For example, if you have a subscription, you also get a discount on each trip. You can travel more often for less money. That's kind of how it works. I think that is fairly well arranged in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u240	Mr Hoogland may be surprised, but I also sometimes travel by public transport. So I know the system and I also know the O.V. chip card system. Hence my call to make that much easier, because it is not user-friendly. But I'd like to get back to the question. Perhaps Mr Hoogland could also just read the reports on road pricing. The Central Planning Bureau says that only one group pays according to usage: the motorist. All other modes of transport do not pay to use at all. If Mr Hoogland is so keen to embrace the principle of payment according to use, why does this only apply to the motorist and does he not place it in a broader perspective? He is asking an open question, so here I ask him whether he is prepared to look open and wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u241	If that was really the most important thing, we should all be in the cheapest modality. Then the VVD's freedom of choice is gone. It's about making public transport easier for people to travel from a to b, for example because people don't have cars, because it's better for the environment or because it doesn't cause traffic jams. That's a very good way. I know that the VVD always wants to calculate to the penny what it costs to the taxpayer per traveler and per kilometre. I am not against this in itself, because you have to have a little insight into the costs, but the point is that public transport also makes it possible for people who do not own cars to get from a to b. That is a very large part of our constituency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u242	Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u243	Just like that driver who has to be at work at nine o'clock in the morning and doesn't choose to be in traffic. Because we don't do that for fun. But I still want to get back to the question. You say that you consider the principle of payment to use so important. My specific question, apart from the chip card and the question of how you feel about it, is: if you were to apply that principle, would you have to apply it to all the other modalities? I didn't count over to the decimal point, but the motorist uses a total of 6 billion. Then you'd have to plead for a maximum of 6 billion in road pricing instead of all the current taxes? I don't hear the PvdA say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u244	No, that's right, because that's not our proposal either. That's why you can't hear us say that. The most important thing is that the world gets completely flat when you just make it a math. It is very important that we have good public transport. People pay for that. They also pay for the use, but if everything has to be cost-effective, I can predict one thing: then we no longer have public transport in the Netherlands. We don't want that. So don't push those principles too far. Somewhere it stops. You can't make everything a calculation. You could argue for the fine dust to be taken out of the overhead line as well as the environmental loss in the car and the environmental gain in the bus, which in turn should not count when the bus is empty. You could pass on those costs, but that way we can continue for hours. In the end, it is a combination of modalities. That's why I'm suggesting we pay for the use of the car. That's fair enough. People who drive a lot pay a lot, but people who drive a little pay less. That is also true in public transport. In addition, you can look at transport arrangements that are independent of the modality, so that people can make a choice depending on what comes out at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u245	I didn't tell you to make it cost-effective. I asked about the principle. But what exactly does the PvdA propose? The example Mr Hoogland mentioned was the congestion charge, to stop allowing cars at a certain time. Is that the plea the PvdA is making? Or does the PvdA want a flat mileage charge? Or something completely different?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u246	I just said this is your last interruption. You're the champion tonight. You have six now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u247	I am going to disappoint Mrs Visser. We have no concrete proposal. We lay down the principle of paying per kilometer. I would like to mention one example that has worked. If that is not efficient or does not work in the Netherlands, or if the situation is very different here, we should not do it. We need to do it in an efficient way. Paying per kilometer is central. The privacy aspect is also important. That's why I'm trying to seduce the Minister to investigate. How could that work in the Netherlands? I have mentioned an example. Maybe there are other examples. Let's go for it. Then I come to a number of other issues, first of all the collaborative economy. The sharing economy is a subject that concerns me personally, because I believe that it will be more common in the future than it is now to share things rather than just to be owned. I would therefore like to make a proposal. Then I will come to the second abbreviation I mentioned: the Zedda. I've seen the Ministry have quite a fleet of cars. I always wonder why these cars can't function in a test to share them. Why isn't some of it already electric? That would be fantastic. If it all happens, I'm glad I'm wrong, because as far as I know, the service cars of the Secretary of State and the Minister aren't electric either. I think that could be a good example. If it is, fantastic. Then I thought, they should also be able to share the service car. Then we came to the proposal of the Zedda: the self-driving electric part-service car. Of course, it doesn't exist yet. It's an air bike ride. But what matters is this. Could the Minister state what she can do in this area? How can we ensure that the past is that the government focuses on old diesels, for example with the police, and that we are leading the way, and that the cabinet also serves as an example? Traffic fines are not rising this year, I am pleased to say, because no inflation correction is being applied. That's the first time I've seen you in ages. The PVV has never succeeded, while Mr Madlener always talks a lot about it. It's not because of us at all, it's just inflation, and yet it's happening. That's fantastic, isn't it? But there is another problem. One time, by accident, you get a fine, for example for red driving, it costs €239. That's a lot of money. If you have an ordinary salary, that's a fifth of your income. I find that indigestible when someone accidentally makes a mistake. Is that supposed to be road safety in the Netherlands? We have proposed to make it a progressive system. This is being investigated, for more than a year now. How's it going? When will we be told whether the introduction of such a progressive system of fines is actually going to happen? More mistakes are higher fines. One mistake by accident is just a reasonable fine. I'll be at the cabs at Schiphol. I've said crazy before that Delhi is a much clearer place. I've been there. It's true. There's one row of cabs. Okay, you don't speak the language and you don't know the currency, but here in the Netherlands it's the same for tourists. They also have the problem that they are recruited on all sides to get in such a taxi. I went there myself the other day. It's not nice. It made me sick, to be honest. The question now is: what are we going to do about it? Why isn't the municipality of Haarlemmermeer performing? Can the Secretary of State indicate what she is going to do and actually answer the question when this is now settled? Because we don't have a nice business card in the Netherlands right now. The moustache scooter's headed for the lane. We got a letter about that. We are very pleased about that. An AMvB is currently being submitted for internet consultation. That's good. But the question is, of course, when can it really happen in Amsterdam, so that they can do what they want and the nuisance becomes a thing of the past. Finally, we got a letter about bike parking. We were very happy about that. Now that there is extra money for bike parking at the stations, the question is how many places of this amount can be realized out of the total of 100,000. In any case, we are very pleased that this seems to be regulated to a large extent now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u248	Thank you very much. I can now give the floor to Mr Madlener, on behalf of the PVV Group, who has moved before this evening. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u249	Mr. Chairman. I will try to keep it as short as possible, because there has been a lot of discussion and it is already late. But the elections are about to take place and it looks like there is a new coalition in the making, the new coalition of road charging: SP, PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks I join in that. So here we see a left-wing coalition of charging. The crazy thing about charging is that people are supposed to stop getting in the car and get out of that traffic. That's what happens because of the price instrument. It's gonna be so expensive that some people can't afford it anymore and lose weight. I thought that this old discussion, which we have done for years, was buried forever and forever, but the Left coalition felt it should be stepped up again. It is a good thing that it is clear, because there is something to choose again. I would like to see all the plans for road pricing being worked out again, because it should not again be called road pricing. It's kind of like the word "allochtoon": you talk about it, but you don't actually say what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u250	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u251	But Mrs. Belhaj is going to tell us what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u252	Yeah, I know, but a little bit of speed! I'm sure Mrs. Belhaj will be next. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u253	Okay. I'm gonna let her interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u254	Let's see what happens. If you've got anything else on that bill drive, I'll get to D66 after that. It's everybody's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u255	As I say, the SP, but also other parties, prefers not to talk about charging. That's a dirty word, hasn't it? That must be "pay per kilometer" and "fairer." That is why I say that the word "allochtoon" is such a word. That'll be contaminated. That should be called different, but everyone knows what we are talking about. It's a bit of a joke to people. I hope that the electoral programmes will speak in plain language, because, of course, this is simply about charging and introducing a price incentive to stop certain people from getting into the car. They're people with a small scholarship, people who have to go to work. It's gonna be too expensive. Then you bully people out of the car. The PVV really thinks that is an antisocial policy. It is also strange that I have to tell the left-wing parties that a price incentive to chase people out of the car is really antisocial. We're all in that same traffic. From director to coffee master, so to speak; everyone is in that same traffic jam. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u256	Mrs Belhaj, D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u257	Thank you. I find it remarkable how the PVV can conclude that paying according to usage is so much more expensive for everyone. Where does Mr Madlener get that from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u258	I'm not necessarily saying it's more expensive, but it's supposed to stop people getting into rush hour, what people are doing now? Driving in the Netherlands is already the most expensive throughout Europe. We Dutch pay the highest price for our car mobility throughout Europe and yet millions of people still get into the car every day, even though it is so expensive. And you say, "We're gonna make that so expensive that people don't do that anymore." That's the principle of charging. If you want to use billing to fight traffic in rush hour, you want people out of the car. Then you want people to make a different choice based on a financial incentive. I don't know how else to do it. Or you're gonna have to start raffleing that one day people with a last name with an M are allowed to drive and so on. I wouldn't know otherwise, but you can explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u259	Look. It actually works that way now. If you have a car, you pay for it anyway, whether you use it or not. That's actually unfair. So you say, whatever your income, the moment you want to use it, you're gonna pay for it. There are people who say: perhaps I can take the train or an alternative means of transport. So that doesn't necessarily mean that people are going to pay more. People aren't gonna pay until they start using something. It happens all the time. If you go to the supermarket or to the cinema, you don't pay without using a product, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u260	You don't want people getting in that car anymore, do you? People are already paying the highest price in Europe. Plus, most of the cost of the car is in the petrol tax. You drive a lot, you pay a lot. You don't drive much, you don't pay much. If you don't think it's fair for people to pay road taxes, I agree with you. That's why I'm putting forward a motion to halve the road tax. Then you'll have the effect of paying a lot when you drive a lot, and paying little if you're not driving a lot. Then the road tax is, as it were, in the excise duties. That's a fairer system. But you want to say: we are going to make sure that people no longer get in the car in the morning or evening pits. And then you're about to introduce a price that will make people say: it's just too expensive for me. The car is already very expensive. And we still have traffic jams, because people are heavily dependent on the car. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u261	I'm in favour of debate, but I'm not in favour of repetition. Mrs. Belhaj, go ahead and try to avoid repetitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u262	I'm definitely gonna do that. The PVV is very sensitive to what people in the Netherlands want. Now it is a coincidence that ANWB, BOVAG and RAI have investigated whether the people in the country are open to that. The people in the country indicate by a large majority that they are open to that. They don't experience it as a car bullying or as a way to make people pay too much, but they understand that it gives everyone the opportunity to get to work or another location on time. So is the PVV sensitive to the will of the people when it comes to paying for use?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u263	Yeah, and that's why I come up with a motion to halve the road tax, because you're gonna pay it if the car doesn't drive when it's stopped outside the door. We want to halve the road tax, so that the variable costs, the costs if you drive a lot and fuel a lot, are used by excise duties to pay the roads. I will mention a number of facts which this Chamber cannot ignore, but I await the interruption of the SP at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u264	I'm going to grant it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u265	You can only turn Mr Madlener on or off. When it's on, it's often very entertaining. Mr Madlener, your great leader scares people, but you're fooling people. I'm so disappointed that you're not prepared to think about ways to properly serve the grassroots of yourself and me, who sometimes sit a little close together. We are all paying the same vehicle tax now. We pay on a petrol basis like we're all driving 10,000 miles a year. A lot of people, often also older people, who only make private trips, don't drive 16,000 kilometers a year at all. We can serve that group of people by making them pay less. If you differentiate by type of fuel and the road on which you drive, you'll probably end up somewhere that benefits your constituents a lot more than you do now. Why aren't you open to the possibility of serving these people? All you're saying is that anyone with a different point of view is part of a left-wing coalition and is busy bullying motorists. I think that is a bit of a shame, because we all have to think about it wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u266	I agree it's fairer if you pay for using the car and not if it's standing still. That is why I propose to halve the vehicle tax. I am making that proposal on this point, and I will table a motion on that. Then it becomes cheaper to own a car and then you pay through excise duties. If you drive a lot, you fill up a lot and pay more excise duty. It's gonna make it more honest. I assume that Mr Smaling supports that. That's the way we best do it. But I do not want to drive a bill as Mr Smaling wants, with lockers in the car and thus huge costs and privacy problems. I don't want the government putting a locker in my car, following me and sending me a bill when I take the car. The petrol tax is a good way to deal with that. That is why we are in favour of halving the tax on motor vehicles. That's what our supporters want. Then driving and possession remains affordable for the people and we do not rush them through the wallet. We think that's antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u267	Mr. Smaling, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u268	We don't want lockers in cars. That's bad for privacy. That is why we have always rejected that in the past. You can simply paste a small chip on the windshield, which you can read if you drive up or down a road that falls below the mileage price. It's good to settle and it's affordable. You don't have to halve the tax for that at all. That's unnecessary. I invite you to look at that together, because the heels go straight into the sand as soon as this is about cars and taxes. We've got to make a break somewhere. I therefore ask you once again to talk about this, because that is better than making each other look like rotten fish because we are supposed to be driving the car off the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u269	Well, rotten fish, it's not that bad, at least today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u270	I also thought it wouldn't be too bad at that point. I think we have a good substantive discussion here. If I understand correctly, it is the SP's intention that there should be some sort of toll-gate system so that we can calculate exactly where you are driving, and it is also the SP's intention that people should stop getting stuck in traffic and therefore say: because those toll-gates are there and because I get that bill, I don't go to work with the car. That's what the SP says. Then I can only draw one conclusion, namely that the SP thinks you should make it so expensive that people are gonna drop out. The SP apparently wants people to start thinking: it's too expensive for me; then I'll go by bike. We don't want that. I think it's antisocial to make the car available only to the rich. I think that's really antisocial. I find it very strange that the SP comes up with this old discussion again. I am really disappointed with the SP, because some of the people in our constituency may have expected the same citizens to remain affordable, because a car is simply an essential means of transport, as I will explain later in my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u271	Those big slurpers from the neighborhoods of the rich just keep paying bpm. For clean small cars we immediately abolish the bpm. It is also not a traffic tax; it is simply a mileage that applies only to A-roads and N-roads of the Empire. That's why you have to have something that makes you check out when you get off a road like that. I am not saying that it all has to be this way, but the SP does think about the car mobility of the future. The PVV doesn't do that at all. I think that's a shame, because you're not doing your own people any favors by staying so rigid in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u272	I still don't hear an answer to my question. Mr Smaling says that it is also intended to combat traffic jams. He wants a different way of paying with all toll gates. Mr Smaling also knows that this is very complicated. It's technically complicated and it's privacy-sensitive. Mr Smaling knows all this, but he says: no, it is not just another means of payment; it is also intended to combat traffic jams. Then I ask him: who is not going to get in the car because of your toll gates? Who are they? Are those the rich people with the slurpers? I don't think so. I think they say we're just paying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u273	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u274	No, it's those poor low-income people. They're gonna lose weight, because you're gonna make it so expensive that they're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u275	Mr Madlener, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u276	These poor people of yours generally drive far less than 16,000 kilometers a year. They therefore have an advantage. The people who drive long distances for their work will suffer from this. If they drive electric, they have the advantage of adding only 5%. The people who do not have to deal with their employer or move or catch the train. So you have less traffic jams and less emissions. That is what you achieve when you introduce this in a sensible way. If you don't, you'll stick with asphalt for days. Mr Madlener can drive on, but the country, the climate and the people with the small wallet are of no use. Mr Madlener must stop fooling those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u277	I'm sure there'll be another concrete plan. You may then have an exchange of views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u278	I await that concrete plan, but if it does not become more expensive and even cheaper for people to take the car, as Mr Smaling says, then the traffic jams will not disappear either. That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u279	Mr Madlener says he is going to table a motion to cut the tax on motor vehicles. A motion is an opinion or a verdict. The question is, of course, where is Mr Madlener going to remove money? Normally you move money on a budget not with a motion, but with an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u280	I do that with a motion, because I think it is an important statement that we want it to be. I refer to our electoral programme. That's where it's neatly covered. This coverage is mainly to be found on foreign expenditure. We believe that the money should be spent in the Netherlands and that we should give tax relief to the Dutch. The PvdA has only increased the load in recent years. It's time for an improvement in purchasing power. We could achieve that by halving the vehicle tax. The advantage of this is that it will also become fairer, because it will not tax the possession of the car, but only the use through excise duties. I'll tell you later that Dutch people already pay more than enough for that car. We're champions in using the car as a milk cow. The PVV thinks it should stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u281	The tap of free beer has just been opened by Mr Madlener. I do have one more question: is the coverage coming from a subject from the election program that I read? Is he going to cover it from the extra investments in defence, from lowering the AOW or from banning the Qur'an? Those are the proposals in the PVV election programme. Will the PVV pay the reduction of the road tax from banning the Koran, from investing in defence or from lowering the AOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u282	I'm referring to our election program. That's legit for everyone. We have the most readable electoral programme in the Netherlands. If it is up to me, it should mainly come from limiting expensive immigration. I know that you are in the party of 'come to the Netherlands and let those Dutch pay'. We're not. We choose the Netherlands. I can start my speech now. I'll start with some facts. We, motorists, pay almost 20 billion in taxes every year. And how much goes into the maintenance and construction of national roads? About 2.5 billion. So only an eighth of what we all pay goes to the road. The rest goes to the left-wing hobbies of the cabinet, including the left-wing hobbies of the PvdA. Cars are getting cleaner and air quality is getting better, despite diesel gate. Modern cars are becoming less polluting due to technical measures. But, unfortunately, the Netherlands drives around in a relatively outdated fleet because the car taxes are so incredibly high. That is also the result of the beautiful policy, but not really a policy. According to the Ministry, in no less than 95% of cases the car appears to be faster than public transport. All those who listen at home know that for a long time, of course, but the people in this room still do not seem to know that. I come to the travel kilometres that Dutch citizens travel. For the train you come at 19 billion kilometers. Then you think: that's quite a lot. But you get to the car at 136 billion kilometers. That's seven times as much as on the train. The train is already overcrowded. What would happen if 10% of the drivers took the train? Then the whole public transport would crash. It is impossible to replace a substantial part of all that car traffic with rail traffic. It just can't be. That's impossible. I would like to make it clear that this perpetual discussion of "train vs. car" is completely out of date. By the way, electric cars also need roads. Maybe we'll be driving electric cars in 10 years. Who knows? If they become affordable. Those cars are on the road. GroenLinks sometimes doesn't seem to fully understand that either. Investing in good, safe ways remains necessary. That is why we find it so regrettable that this cabinet has put so many road projects on the long track. The construction of new road infrastructure should once again become a top priority, if it is up to the PVV. That must be the case with a subsequent cabinet. Is the cabinet willing to make extra money for this? I come to another important point. Last year I asked for a hotline for simple road adjustments, for improvement points. This has been supported by a number of parties, but not by the government parties. Now the ANWB has come up with the same plan. Let people share their experiences, because smart adjustments are possible, even if resources are limited. Last year I mentioned the adaptation of Prince Clausplein, a good idea of Henk Sijsling. That was relatively cheap and good for the flow. There's a lot of profit to be made. The ANWB has now identified about 4,000 bottlenecks. Their approach can ensure both safety and flow. Do that! I also ask the PvdA and the VVD to support this. Last year they didn't want to support this. I hope they will support it now, now that the ANWB and its members are behind it. It's just a good idea. We need to listen to smart citizens with easy-to-use plans. Are we gonna get to work on this? I'm going through traffic jams, accidents and trucks very quickly. I have read in Mr Hoogland's questions that one in five lorries is technically inadequate. My subjective observation is that there are more and more accidents involving lorries. I can also see all those tires, the ones on the side of the road. A truck that isn't right or falling over causes a huge traffic jam. I wonder if this is not also a cause of increasing traffic congestion. Then I will quickly continue with the Belgian tolling for trucks. This leads to problems in the South of the Netherlands. What's the Minister gonna do about this? I see a lot of German and Polish plates in the Netherlands. They should pay taxes. The Court of Auditors is investigating this. When will the results of this investigation come? Has the Minister heard anything about this and when are we going to debate it? We want less flashes to be made of the state treasury, but more checks to be carried out in really dangerous places. Is the Minister finally gonna do that and there's gonna be police checks again instead of that stupid shit? Especially those small fines are a source of annoyance. At intersections, for example, there is such a flashbox for red light and nowadays there is also often a 50 km/h flasher. I'm sorry, you're at such a crossroads and you have to pass. Next thing you know, you're gonna drive a little too fast and you're gonna have a picture. That happens to perfectly normal, benevolent citizens who just drive a little too fast. It is truly a disgrace. I really hope that this will finally be dealt with. I can name a number of places, but they've also been in the paper. My final question is when can we now drive 100 km/h and 130 km/h instead of having to keep all those 80 km/h and 110 km/h speeds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u283	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch spend about a full working week in traffic jams each year. The practice has now shown that more asphalt is not a structural solution everywhere. We need structural solutions, new concepts that focus not on rail or road, but on accessibility. Accessibility will be at the heart of the future investment agenda as far as D66 is concerned. If we are talking about traveling by train, it must not only be reliable and comfortable, but also safe. D66 was very pleased that the Secretary of State released 10 million extra for that security in 2016. Only we couldn't find that money on the budget. What has now been published and what? I would like to receive the figures on this. After 2016 there must be money for this. Of course, the NS must adopt it step by step on its own budget, but we would like to give it some time to make the transition. That's why D66 wants to release another 5 million. For example, those extra conductors that we all consider so important can stay on and we can even expand in the long term, so that all evening shifts can eventually be run with two people. We have prepared an amendment to that effect. Then the bike. Together with local authorities, the cabinet tackles the large shortage of bicycle storage facilities at stations. Compliments. We are not quite there yet with this amount and there will be more to be needed in the coming years, but this is absolutely good. In addition, D66 also wants to encourage cycling to and from public transport facilities and we have an additional proposal for this, namely for the OV-fiets. You often come to a station where people line up in front of such an O-Bike. We are also preparing an amendment to this effect, because we would like to see the greatest shortages of OV-bikes resolved and children's bicycles or child seats and perhaps even e-bikes. Let us look at what is needed and provide for it. It should be easier to transfer the OV-fiets to another place and it should be possible to borrow multiple OV-fiets on one subscription. All options. I'll be at the inspections. D66 attaches great importance to good inspections. Following the motion of D66 and the SP, a broad strategic analysis has been made. I welcome that, but the question that remains unanswered is whether we have enough money after all the analyses. In particular, the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act is a real priority for my group. How will the priority be further established? It's kind of like it's all under the ceiling, but what's the retroactivity? Who decides? D66 wants healthy air for everyone. Mrs Visser later said that we are actually already here and that we are done. Now, Mrs Visser, your colleagues do not agree, because they propose to ban barbecues in Amsterdam. As far as D66 is concerned, we follow today's Long Fund's heart cry and really go to healthy air, to a new political commitment for healthy air in the Netherlands. I will also make a proposal for this in the second term. Give municipalities space and trust local democracy, I would like to say to the VVD. I'll close with the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u284	I believe that Mrs Ouwehand wishes to address one of your previous points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u285	These are my last sentences. Maybe it would be nice if I could finish my speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u286	When I first introduced this to someone else, I saw you watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u287	At the time, Mr President, I felt very much the same way. As far as the climate is concerned, I sincerely hope that we can send this Secretary of State to Marrakesh on behalf of the Netherlands with the ratification to ensure that we work hard together to achieve all these important objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u288	Perhaps the President finds it reassuring to hear that after the argument there is a moment when I can say that I very much agree with D66's contribution. I have one more question about air quality. This subject has also been taken from my heart. Air quality really needs to be improved. The World Health Organisation has said that European standards are still far too high and that air quality needs to be monitored much more closely. Those standards therefore need to be adjusted. Does D66 support the Party for Animals in the fight for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u289	I just asked for a new political commitment. That must go far beyond the paper reality of European standards. We really need to go to health standards. They have to be central. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State is working hard on the advice of the Health Council, which is due at the end of this year. So I fully share with the Animal Party that health standards should be the mark on the horizon for this new political commitment. We won't be there in one year. We need to see where we can do something and what things can be done through source policy. It will therefore be a package of measures, but we need to put this point on the horizon together. The Empire must also assume its financial responsibility, even after the end of the current Air Quality National Cooperation Programme. We're really not gonna be there when we've solved that 12 kilometers in the Netherlands. Then we have met the paper maximum, but we have no healthy air in the Netherlands. For that, we have much more to do. I would very much like to work on that, also with Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u290	Fine. Thank you. That's good to hear. I am very curious to see the amendment on OV-bikes, because that plan sounded good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u291	D66, ChristenUnion, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals are always working together in moving towards a circular economy. Last year, my group zoomed in on our VAT instruments in the budget debate. D66 did, too. A motion has also been adopted on this issue today. That was a motion from D66 and the Labour Party together; let's give everyone the credit. When should that step be taken with regard to D66? We're sitting right now before the election. Does D66 also consider it important that the ESC's investigation should come to the Chamber as soon as possible, so that we can take steps together in the next cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u292	I very much welcome Mrs Dik-Faber's question, because speaking time is always very limited. If I had more time, I would have liked to make this point. Indeed, with the coalition that she called "Christian Union," Labour Party, GroenLinks, Party for Animals and SP" we have been pushing forward very hard for years to realize that circular economy. I'm also really glad that the VVD has also received a compliment from Remco Dijkstra in the past year. That report is going to give us the tools to do the same with the fish in the fiscal sense. I very much hope with Mrs Dik-Faber that it will be there before the elections, so that it can all be taken into account in a new period. Then we really have enough handles and we know what we can adjust. I therefore sincerely hope that the report will be here soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u293	I hope so with Mrs Van Veldhoven. Let's see what the cabinet can do to speed that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u294	Exactly. Let's ask together if that report can come soon, forward it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u295	I would like to comment on the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act. We have discussed this with Minister Kamp before. Several parties want better enforcement. I heard about it in her contribution, but what would Mrs Van Veldhoven specifically want to happen, preferably as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u296	I believe that two budget discussions ago I have already tabled an amendment for additional inspectors at the ILT. The minister said at the time: either they're not necessary or we can't find it, but we're looking at it. That's when some inspectors came along. In the meantime, a strategic analysis has really been made. But when I read the report, I note that it is actually stated that priorities and postal priorities should be set. That's always important for every organization. However, if we were to come to the conclusion that there are not enough inspectors at all to carry out the tasks we lay down there properly, it cannot be said that anything other than postal priority should be made. That means extra money if necessary. I understand that the cabinet also wants to make extra money available to inspectors through the environmental services to the municipalities in order to maintain the Environmental Management Act. I'd like to hear what's going on with that. If the strategic analysis shows that too little is being maintained, we have all seen this, I want to know whether this problem has been solved with the extra money that the cabinet has allocated. Otherwise, it's just gonna have to be money. We do not legislate to make them a dead letter. If additional capacity is needed for enforcement, we are also obliged to do so for companies. A company is also entitled to good enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u297	Is that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u298	A motion for a resolution on this matter was adopted today. There must be an obligation to save energy in the heavy industry. That requires enforcement. So we are looking forward to the answer together. Otherwise, I would like to work together to make a proposal to ensure that there is sufficient enforcement capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u299	Absolutely. Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned an important point. We have laid down an additional task in the inspection, because there is also a real need to ensure that the 9 petajoule is maintained. That will also require additional capacity. I ask the cabinet to include this in the analysis on whether we have enough capacity at all to carry out all these important tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u300	Shortly, Mrs. Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u301	Mrs Van Veldhoven is on the verge of healthy air. I think it is important to debate this, because I do not think that we all disagree on the objective. It is about what we want to achieve. I hear Mrs Van Veldhoven pleading for the goal of health value. What perspective does she see in that? I am asking this because Cabinet letters state that further improvement in air quality requires a reduction in background concentration, which is only possible if emissions of air pollutants are reduced throughout Europe. This requires an international approach. My question is what Mrs Van Veldhoven wants or wants to propose in the pursuit of health standards. Does she see this separately from the European approach, if she knows that the European approach is the only way to achieve it? What value does she strive for? Is it just about WTO standards? We know that every emission causes health damage. So what does Mrs Van Veldhoven want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u302	That's a clear question. The WHO does not say that there is no more health damage in a given emissions, but indicates what an acceptable health damage is. You could say that every bonbon you eat affects your weight, but only if you eat more than a certain amount of bonbons can it really affect you. Every emission has an effect, of course. I like to base myself on the World Health Organization, because that's where the experts are. In a motion that I do not think the VVD supported, we ourselves asked for an opinion in the Netherlands on the values that you should apply in the Dutch situation. That is even a question for a translation of the opinion of the World Health Organisation. I think that should be the dot on the horizon. I do not want to stick to the paper reality of the maximum standard agreed in Europe, because it is not based on medical data and health. So that's what I want. Perhaps Mrs Visser would like to do the same. However, I have not yet heard her say that she is prepared to go for real health, because then the VVD must be prepared to put its head on European policy. D66 is prepared to do so, because D66 really wants to put people's health at the heart of the world and European standards are not about health. The background concentration is European policy. It is very important, and we certainly must do so; absolutely. But you also have to consider what local measures you can take to improve, for example, the health of people in the city. That is where we are very close to the maximum values and thus far from the health standard. Air quality needs to be improved for people in the city. I want to give municipalities room for that, but I am sorry to see the VVD every time that says: no, we do not want to offer municipalities that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u303	It's about how you achieve the most effect. I have deliberately read something about the international approach, because it is very clearly formulated there. I do not hear Mrs Van Veldhoven say that she has a certain year in mind. We know that the proposed policy will enable WTO standards to be met in Europe by 2030. Mrs Van Veldhoven says: that's fine, that's what we're going for? Or does Mrs Van Veldhoven say: no, I want to separate myself from what is happening in Europe, knowing that it requires this international approach, to set other standards in the Netherlands? That is the specific question. If so, then my question is what consequences it will have. How does she see it, given that international approach, if you really want to improve it? We share the objective of clean air, but that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u304	Is Mrs Visser calling for this health damage, which we know to occur, to continue over the next 15 years, simply because we are waiting for Bulgaria? We really disagree on that. You have to make international agreements about certain background concentrations. We cannot solve the problem of shipping in Europe on our own. So we're not gonna do that either. We are going to work hard on this in Europe, but in addition, when it comes to air quality, we can very well take local measures that have a lot of impact. I mentioned the example of the intersection that was replaced by a tunnel. I want us to make a top ten of the most dirty places in the Netherlands, because that top ten can be made. And then I want us to get to work on that and not say that it is the responsibility of the municipalities and if a place on that top ten happens to be outside Rotterdam or Amsterdam, there is no national money left for it. I think we should take these places seriously. The Empire and the regions must see together what we can do. Not every measure is effective, I agree with Mrs Visser, but let us take the measures that will help to improve health over the next 15 years and not say: well, the future will solve it for us, because it is not that simple either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u305	Sometimes the technology works very well with you. Let D66 be for innovation, too. Maybe we can find each other there. The Secretary of State has just made new agreements in Europe on issues such as air quality. I think she fought hard to improve it. That's what I was trying to make clear. Now the suggestion is raised that I say let it blow. The Secretary of State has made clear agreements. The VVD has said: that is clear. My specific question was what Mrs Van Veldhoven's proposal is, apart from those European agreements. Does she want stricter Dutch standards on top or does she want to solve some local bottlenecks? That's quite a difference. This is a very clear question, because then I know what Mrs Van Veldhoven is coming up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u306	I want stricter standards in the Netherlands than European standards. I really want to know what we are working towards in the Netherlands on the basis of the advice of the Health Council. I share Mrs Visser's view that we have not achieved this tomorrow and that European policy plays an important role in this, but we must be prepared to go further in the Netherlands in the coming years than those European paper standards, which have nothing to do with health. I hope that Mrs Visser is prepared to do so and that she sees a national responsibility in this. In concrete terms, in the coming years, I want to work with the top ten of the most polluted places in the Netherlands, so that the Empire and the regions that are going to tackle them together, in order to avoid as much health damage as possible over the next 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u307	Mr. Chairman. D66 believes that the water separation between the Empire, the province and the municipality should end and the separation between roads, water and rail. Several governments, companies, scientific institutions and residents need to work together and see what is the best way to get from A to B, not staring blind on asphalt, a train connection or a bus lane an sich. Replace the Infrastructure Fund with an access fund based on high-quality, national main connections and optimal regional networks. Intelligent transport combinations that connect smoothly become an even more attractive alternative to the car. How does the Minister feel about this? Previously, the CDA raised the issue of building bridges. Recently, the discussion has focused on the acute closure of the Merwede bridge for freight traffic. My group has raised major questions about the provision of information to Rijkswaterstaat, because how did this happen? Of course, we have seen the answers to Mrs Visser's written questions, but we still have a few more specific questions. Is there or is there not sufficient knowledge in the house about the structure and maintenance of our works of art? What is the Minister going to do with this specific remark made by the Court of Auditors to ensure that information is kept in order in the very short term? For D66 it is extremely important to ensure the reliability of the Netherlands as a transport country. Experts tell me that the damage compensation for closing the Merwede Bridge now amounts to €500,000 per day for all transport companies and related companies who suffer damage due to the closure of that bridge. If you count at least 20 days further, we'd have about 10 million dollars worth of damage. We thought: why would you want to spend that money on compensation if you could also put it into maintenance? Prevention is better than cure. I am afraid that the last word has not yet been said, but for now I would like a response from the Minister. I come to road safety. Yesterday we were surprised again, this time by a report from the insurers stating that the number of collisions has increased by 8%. When is the Minister going to take signals seriously? In response to my adopted motion (29398, No. 509), which calls for a plan of action to ensure that accidents are recorded in a final form, the Minister has again listed its measures in a letter to the Court, but that was not the question. Without closing registration, the causes of road accidents cannot be addressed. I urge the Minister to carry out my motion and to draw up a plan of action for a final registration. That saves people's lives. Many traffic bottlenecks and traffic jams are caused by the driving style of individual drivers. Is the Minister prepared to investigate effective behavioural measures to prevent congestion? The Paris climate agreement is not an end, it is a starting point. The act must now be added to the word. In shipping too, real meters must be made. D66, together with other parties, previously acted on the documentary Seablind, which was shown in the Chamber. Since last week, there have been new appointments. For no less than seven years shipping will need to come up with an ambitious CO reduction plan. According to D66, this is not Parisian. We therefore wonder what went wrong. I ask the Secretary of State what exactly the Dutch commitment has been and what the Netherlands is going to do in the meantime. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the D66 motion on controls in the shipping sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u308	I heard a bit back in Mrs Belhaj's speech that D66 is also interested in the driving style of drivers. That was in the context of safety, but GroenLinks regularly called attention to the new driving, the modern, energy-efficient driving style. Then Mrs Belhaj talked about Paris, so that's what it's all about. Does D66 share the efforts of GroenLinks to ensure that this modern energy-efficient driving style is taught to all drivers, both to new drivers who are now driving off, and to drivers who have long been driving?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u309	This is probably a discussion that is not entirely on my territory, but on that of my colleague, Mrs Van Veldhoven. I can't really answer it right now. I'd like to get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u310	I heard D66 talking about shipping. That's a subject you know a lot about. I think you're from Rotterdam, too. I expect that you will now be very consistent and that you will say that it is not enough what shipping does. You are now going to be consistent in pleading for heads of policy, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u311	I'm sorry, what kind of policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u312	You say shipping must deliver. We also had a debate in which your colleague advocated national policy headlines. If D66 is consistent, you are now going to argue for national headlines on shipping policy, which is international. Is that correct or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u313	For the few people who still watch with us at home: "heads on policy" is jargon for...?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u314	That we, as the Netherlands, impose stricter rules than in all those other countries around the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u315	This too would be a question for my colleague, who is very familiar with the issue of sustainability. As the Secretary of State has also pointed out, it is important that international agreements are made on this matter in shipping.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u316	Ah, so no head on policy here. In the case of cars and environmental zones, we need to make policy headlines. For shipping, where one ship emits more than 17 million cars, D66 is suddenly not consistent anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u317	Mr President, on a point of order. If Mr Dijkstra has so many questions to me, he could have just asked them. I suggest that we clarify this further after the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u318	This is a point of order. So you're addressing me. As chairman, I hear the speaker talking about shipping. Mr Dijkstra's question is about shipping, so I will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u319	I would also like to comment on this point of order. With regard to the EZ budget, I asked questions to the VVD spokesperson, who then said to speak exclusively about SME policy. He did not want to answer questions on all other issues in the field of EZ. He didn't think that was relevant at all. I would like to support the fact that D66 has a clear division here in the speech and that these questions naturally belong to Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u320	I will allow the question simply because the subject is being discussed. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u321	Then I say the same thing as I have just said, namely that I would like to return to it in my second term, so that Mr Dijkstra can have a perfectly clear and unambiguous answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u322	That is also a clear answer. You continue, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u323	Mr. Chairman. I shall conclude with the quality of the budget. For 2017, I and M are faced with a strong exchange rate disadvantage, the effects of which are not sufficiently explained for the different policy articles. D66 likes to hear from the Minister about the policy implications of this trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u324	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the National Climate Summit in Rotterdam, at the Van Nellefabriek, was the icon of the new works and of progress. It was a meeting of 1,700 people from governments, businesses and civil society organisations, who wanted to put their share in the implementation of the Paris climate agreement. That's very nice, of course. I welcome the initiative, but what is going to change in the end? At the end of the climate summit everyone was very satisfied, one of the national newspapers headlined. One of the news stations even called it a sweet climate summit. I was there when the Secretary of State fought for the climate agreement in Paris. Then she wasn't sweet at all, but she showed a lot of courage. What's going to change in government policy after last week's climate summit? What are the plans of the Secretary of State in the remaining months of this cabinet period? The Christian Union wants to ratify the Paris climate treaty as soon as possible. As far as we are concerned, the treaty will be ratified before the Secretary of State goes to Marrakesh. We want the climate treaty to be implemented and it to be enshrined in a climate law. The Christian Union chooses a clean future for our children. For them, we want to invest in clean energy and in a circular economy. This also creates new jobs. It will make our economy stronger. We have everything we need to be the frontrunner. Then let's be the frontrunner. The climate issue is actually too big to make politics. It calls for a long-term vision of cabinet periods. It requires commitment from all public authorities, as well as from civil society organisations and business. That is why we are proposing that a delta Commissioner be appointed for climate and energy. Is that what the Cabinet wants? As far as my group is concerned, we cannot wait until the European emissions trading system finally works and we are going to work with a minimum CO price or with a CO levy with a levy-free base for electricity production. It is good to see that it is also included in the election programme of the Labour Party. That's another opportunity. Such an instrument could be used nationally and possibly with neighbouring countries. Does the Secretary of State want to work this out? What about the implementation of my motion calling on the cabinet to discuss their investments in fossil fuels with the financial sector? We should probably quit. I understand that the financial sector has its own responsibility, but we can talk about it. There are also public investors. Shouldn't they take responsibility for that, too? Our way of producing and consuming must become circular. Let us no longer constantly extract new raw materials and exhaust the creation, but let us recover and process materials into new products. The government can set a good example and act as a launching customer. The plan for sustainable shopping is there, but the business community is still not aware of it. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the Netherlands is going to implement the EU Circular Economy package vigorously and in an ambitious way. I understand, however, that the European pathway is not yet running well enough. The Commission is hesitant about taking concrete measures, for example in the area of ecodesign, and adapting the VAT Directive for circularity. What can the Secretary of State do to get a move on this? I want to zoom in on some specific flows. First of all, I come to textiles. Last year my amendment didn't make it, but with an EU grant there was still an installation for fibre sorting. With this installation, it is possible to convert discarded clothing into high-quality fibres from which new clothing can be produced. However, in order to get re-use and recycling off the ground, more is needed, namely a new green deal textiles, with emphasis not only on the first step of collection but also on the follow-up steps for reuse and recycling. The latter is now not economically profitable. This also requires more than just deposit money. For example, a recycling contribution from importers or producers. Will the Secretary of State investigate this and start a new green deal? The ChristianUnion also likes to see an extension of deposit money to small plastic bottles. Why should we investigate this anymore? Don't let it be that the Plastic Soup Surfer made the crossing to England for nothing. Companies and organisations that handle a lot of waste that is strictly from consumers, such as campsites or public transport, should, like municipalities, be able to use the Waste Fund. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider how this can be organised? I've got another motion on this one. Others have also talked about it: the air we breathe must be clean. The rules are now aimed at achieving standards rather than achieving health benefits. This afternoon we received a petition. Dozens of children gave us the message: we want clean air. The Christian Union is keen to see an extension of the existing air quality programme, in which WHO standards are on the horizon and lead health. Is that what the Secretary of State is gonna do? Already in 2008 the Fietsersbond in collaboration with Utrecht University revealed that mopeds emit more ultra-fine dust than trucks and that they emit twice as much as the average car. We've been eight years. In the meantime, a full alternative to this means of transport has taken off and the electric scooter and e-bike can also compete at price. As far as our group is concerned, it is high time to say goodbye to the petrol moped or at least to the two-stroke variant. Does the Secretary of State also want to do something about this in a European context? Yesterday, the MDV1 Immanuel, a fishing vessel, won the prestigious Maritime Award 2016. From this place, too, our congratulations. This fishing vessel won it from luxury yachts, but this too is an important economic sector for the Netherlands. Where the construction takes place in the Netherlands, maintenance with all employment is often done elsewhere. There's gotta be another way. We ask the Minister to assign the necessary capacity and priority to the final elaboration and implementation of what is necessary to operate under the Dutch commercial cruising vessels flag, and to set up a task force together with the HISWA. Yesterday we were shocked by the report that road safety in our country is decreasing. The Christian Union calls for an action plan to halve the number of deaths and injuries caused by traffic in 2027. This plan should focus in particular on the position of vulnerable road users, such as children and the elderly, and on combating asshole behavior of people who are structurally ignoring traffic rules. Is the government going to launch such an action plan in recent months? I agree with all the questions raised by VVD and D66. I'm rounding up. It is the last budget discussion of this cabinet. A lot has been set in motion, but is it enough? Can we look our children in the eye later and say that we have done everything, really everything we could? "Political grandeur manifests itself when one acts at difficult times on the basis of grand principles and thinking of general long-term well-being." With these words of the Pope I close.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u325	Thank you very much. That Pope overwhelmed me. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u326	Mr. Chairman. Minister Schultz is in the process of her final budgetary treatment. That is a good time to say how we have experienced this Minister. She is an enthusiastic advocate for the things she really supports. With cheerfulness she is engaged in the matters that concern her. Oh, that's a beauty to her. Unfortunately, it is often not the things GroenLinks gets very excited about, except for Space for the River. The main battlefields were: building the coast, increasing the speed limit, aviation and the Environment Act. Looking back, we come to the following conclusion. Everything the Minister has done in these areas runs counter to what is needed to combat climate change. Those who say they want to fight greenhouse gases, those who sign Paris, those who say they want clean air, do not increase the speed to 130 km/h, who do not encourage the growth of aviation, but they should encourage local initiatives such as setting up environmental zones and combating scooters. Then we have a Secretary of State who, with her charm, is able to wrap the entire Chamber from left to right, who dares to intervene with her enthusiasm on the trail and who has managed to secure a beautiful climate agreement in Paris with perseverance. I have exactly the same quote as the Christian Union in my text on the sweet climate summit. I think it's okay to do that. We may sometimes bathe in a warm bath of good will from companies, organisations, municipalities and citizens who are committed to this. Such a holiday is allowed, but after that, of course, we must decide what we are really going to do. Today I read that there is already a country where it has been decided that 8% of new cars to be sold should be emission-free in 2018. That country, the Secretary of State, nods, is China. So China is catching up with us on the left again. We can't leave that on our own, can we? We must ensure that the fine motion of the Labour Party is implemented quickly. Another thing that we urgently need to do is, step by step, to tell our citizens honestly how big the change we stand for is. On the right side of the Chamber we see the resistance to electric cars, to saying goodbye to cooking on gas, to taking the train for the short distance instead of the plane. You know what a huge challenge we have in this society. Surprisingly, I agreed with Schipholtopman Nijhuis for a moment, who thinks it is socially irresponsible to fly up and down to Barcelona for €30. He prefers to get rid of prize fighters who offer those prizes. I wonder what the government's reaction to that is. Unfortunately, after that, he said he wanted that space at Schiphol Airport to be able to plan more long-distance flights. We thought that was just a fraction less socially responsible! Fossil mobility is an important source of greenhouse gases. Once upon a time, it was an uplifting idea that any worker could own a car. Today, almost every residential area has a lack of parking space and traffic jams are increasing again. It is precisely where these workers live that air quality is declining. The shift towards zero-emission mobility is being used shyly, but very nicely with regional bus transport. How can that be supported more? Experts agree that more asphalt is neither a solution nor speed increases. Is the Minister willing to go on MIRT grounds...? It seems that the decisions are now in place until after 2030. Speed increases are pushed down the throats of surrounding municipalities. We talked earlier about increasing speed on the A2, but now it's also about the A28. De Bilt, Zeist, Amersfoort and Leusden apparently had to hear the Minister's decision from the State newspaper. The Utrecht Environment Service is concerned about air quality. What is the reaction of these rulers? Are they prepared to make a pass in place with those speed increases, including within the MIRT? We are now at the end of a cabinet period and a new cabinet, hopefully with a progressive left engine block in it, will probably want to make other decisions. Het Nieuwe Rijden is also one of the topics GroenLinks has been promoting for a long time. It is learning to handle a sustainable product, the electric or the hybrid car in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u327	I would like to go back to the beginning of Mrs Van Tongeren's speech. If I have understood her correctly, she mentioned four examples in which she could not go with the Minister. Among them was the Environment Act. Can she explain to me why this Environment Act doesn't help achieve climate goals? I would think that the Environment Act gives local authorities all kinds of space. She agrees with that, doesn't she? Why doesn't it have confidence in these local authorities for achieving climate goals? Can she explain that connection to me again? 'Cause I don't get it. It had to go down first, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u328	I'd be happy to. In the current legislation, which is incorporated into the Environment Act, there are a lot of hard standards in a lot of areas. Mr Houwers asked about climate change, which includes, for example, standards for the exploitation of fossil resources, gas and oil. The Environment Act regulates a lot of things at AMvB. First of all, this means that no legislation must be approved by the First and Second Chambers. It goes through AMvB, and Mr Houwers knows how that works. It can then be considered by such a province or municipality, depending on who the competent authority is, whether that permit should be issued. Under the Environmental Law, it becomes a lot easier to get a search drilling for shale gas, for example, or to do a gas drilling on a Wadden Island. That is something that certainly does not benefit the climate, because 80% of all known fossil resources we have now have to stay underground if we are to protect this earth from extreme climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u329	Then I note that GroenLinks has no confidence in the provinces and in the municipalities. Apparently, they can't handle the climate targets. So you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u330	No, that's a wrong observation. Under the Mining Act there will be a permit for the subsurface of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That is not what municipalities and provinces are about, although they would very much like to do so. The PvdA and GroenLinks tried to amend that in the law, but that was taken out again by Minister Kamp. For the upper ground there must be a permit from a municipality or a province, but if EZ has already granted the exploration permit, it is almost impossible for a municipality to stop it. Right now, I can. For example, the province of Brabant has included in its environmental regulation that shale gas should not be extracted throughout the province. Those kinds of possibilities for the municipality or province to stop it, are taken out with the Environment Act. So yes, there are improvements for municipalities and provinces, for expanding a small neighborhood, a petting zoo, a business park. But on the very big issues it is a deterioration, because there are no absolute standards in that law anymore. Then I'll continue with the trail. GroenLinks wants more tension on the track. It is now in the Netherlands at 1,500 volts. Nice plans have been made. The Ministry of I and M has also been involved in this. Actually, I have one question for the Secretary of State. When do we start? That saves the energy you can now generate with 40 large windmills. So we could use that energy for something else, the trains go faster, the capacity can be increased, and I have been told that it is a profitable investment. The healthy city. Most Dutch people spend much of their time in an urban environment. In this urban environment, air quality is on the verge or even too bad according to current standards. If you live by the highway, you actually smoke five cigarettes a day. Most traffic victims also fall in the urban environment. In the urban environment we have scooters, which are really fine dust cannons. Municipal authorities have little influence on their sources. If they want to provide their citizens with a healthy, pleasant environment, why not give the associated opportunities for measures such as the environmental area to municipalities? Many other possibilities are delegated to the cities. GroenLinks has made a plea for this in many debates and is doing so again. The same applies to the enforcement of environmental rules. Towns and provinces aren't gonna get to it. We had it in the interrupting debate with D66. They do not get to inspect other things that are also important if they do a lot under the Environmental Management Act. I have a rather specific question about nuclear safety. There's a company called Stable Isotopes, and that's a daughter of URENCO in Almelo. There were several people in the hospital who died in an industrial accident. Then no one could determine who is the competent authority there and should enforce it. Everyone's looking at each other there. I assume our minister has an answer. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, an enforcement deficit is unacceptable in a company that operates with radioactive isotopes. What would the women in government think about giving provinces and municipalities more freedom of experimentation to find, in their own way, the step towards, initially, a low-emission city and then an emission-free city and province? At national level, we see how incredibly difficult it is, for example with the energy agreement, to reduce emissions. There have been several fine reports on how a alliance of cities could contribute to this. One of them is called Wetting the Gap. How do the ruling women view that? Would they like to give some experimental space to the provinces and municipalities that want to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u331	We already had an interruption debate on enforcement in my term. In particular, I mentioned the Environmental Management Act. I now hear Mrs Van Tongeren mention another point of interest. What are the main points for her when it comes to the enforcement deficit? What does it propose to the govern ments on this matter in concrete terms? What does GroenLinks want in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u332	That's a very good question. We've been discussing this ever since Moerdijk. Inspection holidays must be over. There should be no negotiation oversight with regard to GroenLinks. They should not be paper inspections, only checking compliance with the standard on paper. We also consider it very important that sufficient young inspectors are trained to do so. We are not ready to say that it should be a major national inspection. We have started the RUD (Regional Implementation Service). Put it through and look at it. We also find: either you set the right priorities, or you need money. I think the latter is almost insurmountable. These are things only the government can do. You can't guarantee the safety of citizens yourself. If you live next door to Odfjell or next door to a yard, you really can't make sure it's safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u333	Clear. When Mrs Van Tongeren talks about 'no negotiation supervision', we all know which extremes you should not want. On the other hand, it is important that companies have inspectors who think along with them about how to solve cases and bring things into line with them. I assume that, as far as Mrs Van Tongeren is concerned, this is not covered by her prohibition of negotiated supervision. Inspectors are allowed to think along on how it should be and can be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u334	Sure. We have rather complicated legislation in the Netherlands, which sometimes also conflicts somewhat. I have suggested a bonus-malus system before: if a good company does not commit any offence for a number of years, there will be fewer inspections; if you go in error more often, you will be inspected more often. I also think that companies should contribute to this. We are not yet out of that discussion either. I am also curious to hear the reply of the Secretary of State to the proposal for a company's own contribution to the inspection. Then I'm almost at the end of the time assigned to me. I'll be on the Coast Pact. We received an answer on this last night. I appreciate the Minister's attempt to protect the coastal landscape, but from answering my questions I take it that we are not much further. I am very anxious that the Coast Pact will continue to be stuck in good intentions. The poor reality remains that this expansion is still taking place where municipalities and project developers have set their sights on the beach and the dunes. You can say that more can be built where has already been built. My question is still: how are the old, worn-out holiday homes and holiday parks just behind the dunes? Shouldn't we clean it up and use it before any new construction can take place in such a province? My last question is about poison trains. I have been told from Limburg that there is total uncertainty about the number of poison trains in the South of the Netherlands. They heard there were two of them. Later they heard it was five a day. There is also a difference between an empty train and a full one. An empty train, of course, presents less danger but not "zero" danger. For the locals, that feels incredibly uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u335	Mr. Chairman. I thought: let me choose an original angle; let me start with traffic jams. Finally, the weather has blown on the Dutch roads, but unfortunately, that originality is already a bit off. What I thought was original is the contribution of colleague Van Helvert. He knew with the fact that tonight had unexpectedly returned to the biggest file since times, to serve four years of cabinet policy. That was an extremely powerful approach. We do have a problem with those traffic jams. The pieces indicate that, too. In about five years the loss of travel time is expected to increase by about 40%. Investment in road widening, construction and expansion cannot keep pace with this. At the same time, an investigation among ANWB drivers shows that there are several bottlenecks that are still not sufficiently identified in the Ministry. The junction A1/A30, which has been called attention more often, is in the top five bottlenecks according to road users, but dangles with the minister somewhere at the bottom. We stress once again that this node deserves attention. Furthermore, it has also been blown on the tracks. The cabinet opts for an extension of the Infrastructure Fund. Excellent. However, a large part of the new investment area is already devoted to maintenance budget and estimation adjustment. That maintenance money turns out to be really necessary. The General Court has been warning about deficits for some time now. Indeed, the report does not talk about desolate conditions, and that kind of thing is that the use of such words is also a bit part of the political business, but warns about deficits for a long time, because many bridges are slowly reaching the end of their lifespan. This has recently been underlined by the unexpected cracks in the Merwede Bridge, which makes transport companies the hare. This raises the next pressing question to the Minister. Does Rijkswaterstaat have a good picture of everything? In other words, what should be done, according to the Minister, to complete and clarify the risks associated with the maintenance of bridges, viaducts, tunnels and such works of art? So much for the issue of budget around the infra. Then I come to inland waterway transport, which has also been called for more often. Many traffic jams are partly prevented by more inland waterways. I'm sure we're convinced of that. I would like to join with the colleague from, I believe, the VVD who has also pointed this out. I always find the A15 with its rows of trucks, bumper to bumper, from Rotterdam to Valburg, with regular traffic jams. In addition, the Merwede, the Waal, flows with steadily dampening and dampening inland vessels and tens of percent unused transport capacity. Is the Minister prepared to identify where and how inland waterway transport could be used to circumvent traffic-sensitive routes? Colleagues have advocated an integrated approach to the whole issue of mobility and accessibility. I really think we should go that way. Inland waterway transport is too often a child under the roof. That's more like it. For example, millions of euro are earmarked for rail adjustments related to more transport of dangerous substances on tracks other than the Betuwe route. Why didn't we look at inland waterway transport first? The maritime sector has presented a plan for a much more energy efficient inland waterway fleet, which is a much cheaper form of CO emission reduction than offshore wind farms. Are the rulers willing to take this down? Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the Covadem project which is being worked out. This represents the continuous measurement of the depth of the waterway by inland waterway vessels. This data is intended to be used for current sailing maps, so that ships can be better charged and Rijkswaterstaat can perform the fairway maintenance better. However, implementation in practice requires a small additional budget. I have tabled an amendment to this effect and ask the Minister to take a favourable look at it. I would also like to draw attention to road safety. I agree with the comments made by my fellow Members on this point. How can road safety be combated? In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2007, a little less than ten years ago, there were one and a half million standings, thus removing drivers from the road, whereas in 2015 this figure was reduced to a quarter of a million. That is not because they had gone so much more careful but because less attention had been paid to it. I would ask the Minister, in cooperation with the Minister for Security and Justice, who has now done a hand-in-hand hand-in-hand with a view to giving more attention to this issue, to ensure that traffic drivers and traffic riskers can actually be dealt with. As far as the environment is concerned, I shall confine myself to two minor points. In the context of environmental zoning, a subsidy scheme would be introduced to replace old diesel cars and lorries. There was a draft regulation with a budget of almost EUR 4 million. A large part of the budget has evaporated in the present budget. Entrepreneurs are still in the clear. In what way do the leaders intend to pursue the original budget and the proposed arrangement? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the issue of asbestos remodelling, with which I agree with one of the colleagues who has already mentioned this point. This is an immense task. There is an acceleration approach, with additional subsidy money being made available, but at the same time asbestos restructuring is outside certain tax relief benefits. Think of the environmental investment deduction and the early write-off of environmental investments. That, in turn, is a contradictory development. This is in fact blocking a successful and vigorous approach to the asbestos removal problem. Can the Secretary of State take a little more out of the box in this respect in order to stimulate this reorganisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u336	The SGP and the VVD share a lot of points, especially in the agricultural countryside, where there is a lot of that asbestos. I see another obstacle, namely that you have to pay if you want to get rid of asbestos. You'll be dealing with a landfill tax. What does the SGP think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u337	On this point, too, there are instruments that you could use to achieve the ambition set for 2024. If you remove the financial thresholds that are linked to them and are not low, both in the fiscal sphere and in the sphere of disposal and destruction, then as a government you actively contribute to the realisation of that goal without it costing you a great deal. For example, you can think of a lower VAT rate and more of that kind of thing. So I would be happy to consider instruments that could stimulate this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u338	I have a supplementary question. Farmers often don't have those resources. There are indeed a lot of costs involved. So it has to be faster, simpler and cheaper, but safe, of course. But what if at some point it amounts to a cold clean-up of the livestock sector? It can't be that at some point you have cows, pigs or chickens, but no roof over your head? What does the SGP think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u339	No, it should not be this kind of obligation leads to cold clean-up. I hope that the Secretary of State will take it widely and that it will take a global approach. I can also imagine solutions that do not threaten a company in its viability. I can imagine that as a government you allow or offer certain facilities at that point or whatever. I would very much appreciate it if the Secretary of State would come up with creative ideas for that. I have a great deal of faith in that. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u340	Mr. Chairman. It is by far the greatest challenge our generation faces: to keep the earth alive. Anyone who thinks the economy is more important than the environment should try counting their money while they're underwater. Earth is the basis of our existence. She provides us with clean air to breathe, clean water to drink, a healthy soil to grow food and all the means we need to live as we do. It's pure wealth. Too bad we were so stupid to waste this wealth. It's five to twelve for the climate. The good news is that you don't have to convince anyone about it anymore: there is a long way to go from Kyoto to Paris, but nations and leaders worldwide are aware that global warming must be curbed in the interests of all of us, but above all in the interests of the world's poorest, already hard hit by climate change, and in the interests of our children and grandchildren. We simply cannot destroy what is not ours. The less good news is: there is a lot, a lot of precious time wasted. The longer you wait, the harder it gets. Fortunately, there is Secretary of State Dijksma. You notice everything: she knows this and she understands this. Last week, she organised a beautiful climate summit in Rotterdam, where she and the Prime Minister emerged as an accomplished conversation leader and inspiration. She also tapped in a nice 9% CO reduction per 2030. That's a good result. She organized the Dutch premiere of Leonardo DiCaprio's impressive climate film and spoke wise, firm words. We heard her say, "We have to live differently." We heard her say drastic choices. We heard her talking about a primal instinct that has to come loose, the will to survive and fight for our future. In short, the Secretary of State says that it is all hands on deck for the climate: we all have to participate in order to stop climate change, there are no taboos and I am ready. That's how we know her. We have already seen some reports from people and organisations who are afraid that the climate summit would be a wash, but I think it is the honour of the Secretary of State to make that happen. One of the things she said triggered the Animal Party in particular, namely: we need every conceivable measure to counter global warming. Look, we'll take that as an invitation. We are very happy to discuss this, because that is how the Secretary of State knows the Party for Animals. She's still in this post for five months. The Animal Party has five pillars for climate policy. The first pillar is: away with the taboo on the debate on consumption. Climate change is often discouraging. That's a big problem. What can you do about it as an individual? Sometimes that can sink your nerves. It is also serious, but there is also extremely hopeful and good news. All the Secretary of State has to do is break a taboo: dare to discuss consumption. For the fight against climate change, we have two simple weapons. They don't cost money and still make the most of it for the climate. Those weapons are called "knife" and "fork." The Secretary of State knows it himself. At the climate summit we saw signs with erase-u-dates. One of those knew-you-dats was: did you know that eating vegetarian or vegan requires less forest cover? For the purpose of feeding our chickens, cows and pigs, kilometres of tropical jungle are harvested for soy plantations. The Food Centre also informs people about the sustainability aspects and the environmental impact of our food. If you're really looking, you'll find it. But it's really, really time for the next step. You can't just keep preaching this sustainability story in your own church, where people already know it, and expect climate change to stop. We can no longer run away from this discussion with doers like 'I am certainly not in favour of banning meat'. I don't think we're from the VVD. Facilitating sustainable choices takes courage, but it can. James Garvey wrote an interesting book about the seduction industry. The Scientific Council for Government Policy, by Henriëtte Prast, also points out that freedom, which the VVD so much likes to tap into, is actually very limited. That is, of course, an age-old philosophical discussion, but we have to observe that the way in which our environment is set up guides our behavior. It's as simple as that. There have been huge initiatives and developments in marketing. Supermarkets are designed in such a way that 80% of people buy what the supermarket had come up with about in advance. Neuromarketing is high. What are we putting on the other side of that? The debate on consumption really needs to be conducted. Henriette Prast of the Scientific Council for Government Policy has said good things about this. You can encourage people to make more sustainable choices, for example in terms of meat consumption. There are really good plans for that. I challenge the Secretary of State: dare to break that taboo and engage in that discussion. The second pillar of the climate is, of course, long-term policy. Mother Earth isn't from yesterday. The climate is crying out for long-term sustainable plans and the Secretary of State actually has a golden opportunity. For two years, there has been an adopted motion by the Animal Party asking for a coherent strategy to implement the system changes that are needed to make society fundamentally sustainable. The Planning Office for the Environment points out that it is necessary, the Scientific Council for Government Policy encourages the Cabinet to do so and the deadline of this Secretary of State expires on 15 March 2017. What would be a better legacy than an elaborate long-term plan for a next cabinet? Dear successor, I've taken some work off your hands. In order to safeguard the long-term climate, the following needs to be done. Of course, the VVD will be blazing, but the coalition will fall apart on March 15th. New round, new opportunities. The climate does deserve it. The third pillar is sustainable education. The Secretary of State already knows this very well. Children are indispensable for solving the climate problem. The child's climate summit was a good idea. Even better is sustainability as an integral part of the school curriculum. It must be a mindset that plays a role in all subjects, says Professor of Social Learning and Sustainable Development Arjen Wals. 40 youth organisations concluded a Sustainable Education Convention with The Hague. The motion of the Party for Animals has made sure that it has actually been ratified here in the Chamber. There are hopeful initiatives. An inventory of the green brain shows that much is happening in the Netherlands, but there is too little connection between education and tomorrow's challenges. A round table held by the Party for the Animals shows the same thing. There's an incredible amount going on. There are many enthusiastic people engaged in inspiring initiatives and the only thing missing is the connection between the schools and the initiators. So the only thing that has to happen is to make that connection possible. The young people also helped us to do this. They have written from the treaty to a plan an effect which I would like to hand over to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u341	That always goes through the messenger here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u342	That's what I'm doing here. In the meantime, I'm gonna keep talking. The picture shows the Minister of Education. She was also offered that treaty, but it is the Secretary of State of I and M who started the motion. This Secretary of State was also Secretary of State for Education. I remember that debate well when I tried to persuade her to be sustainable as part of the curriculum. She said: well, Mrs Ouwehand is not easily satisfied, of course, because she would like the Party for Animals party program to be taught in the classroom. That would be a good start, but working out this plan is also good. She may not remember it at all, but it does sound like something she might have said. I have two questions about that. We had also tabled a motion to continue the program Sustainable through after 2016. The Secretary of State said he felt that way at the time. She wanted to make a positive decision on this and asked me to hold on to that motion for a resolution. However, we are surprised at the budget. We see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs does invest in Sustainable by but the Ministry of I and M doesn't. How's that? Is there a budget coming through from this Ministry for Sustainable Development? Is the Secretary of State prepared to support the plan I have just presented to her on behalf of the youth organisations, even with a pilot? We should also be able to take this hopeful next step. There are two other pillars. The fourth pillar of the climate is that fossil energy is history. While the NOS Journal opened last Sunday with a cheerful hurrah item that the CETA Convention и the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union и has finally been signed, critical citizens watched Leonardo DiCaprio's new climate film on the same night at National Geographic. Filmed from above, we could immediately see where we had put our signature: the destruction of precious nature for the extraction of tar sand oil. Destination? Europe. DiCaprio was appalled at the sight. He said it looked like Mordor, the darkest place the best fantasy writer of the last century could summon in our imagination. It's now and it's real. The extraction of tar sand oil drives indigenous first nations from their land and destroys nature on a large scale. Forests are cut down, water and soil are polluted and it gives the highest CO2 emissions. It is even more damaging to the climate than other fuels. This Chamber has said that Europe must close its borders to this devastating form of fossil fuel. The cabinet did not implement that motion and signed the CETA Convention, making it even more difficult to keep this fossil fuel off our market. What has the Secretary of State done with the promise to address this in the talks with Canada? Is the Secretary of State at least prepared to go for fuel labelling so that consumers can see for themselves what they do not want to cooperate with? That shit really needs to get off the market. Fossil energy in general must be put to an end. I come to the last pillar for a strong climate policy: healthy nature is a healthy climate. Not for nothing is Willem Ferwerda the leader of the Sustainable 100 last year. He is an ecologist committed to the restoration of natural areas worldwide. Nature is the best buffer for climate change. However, nature's resilience is declining dramatically. There is a limit to the ability of nature to absorb the impact of man. Unfortunately, that limit is almost reached. This Secretary of State is not responsible for nature policy in the Netherlands, but she is responsible for biodiversity policy in the European context. As far as we are concerned, it is also about complying with the commitments made under the Biodiversity Convention. This Secretary of State should feel responsible for natural areas worldwide to which our consumption is putting an end. The palm oil production is incredibly popular. It's a very cheap raw material. The downside is that for the construction of large oil palm plantations Indonesian rainforest is burned down. That deforestation has a huge impact on climate change. We can't leave it to Indonesia. It's our consumption that's causing this. I believe that the Secretary of State for Climate Change should put policies on that. It is not okay that only the Foreign Trade Minister thinks he can interfere. This Secretary of State, with her plans for a long-term policy for a healthy climate, should also address the impact of our consumption on nature elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u343	Mr Madlener has another question. Probably you're not gonna agree, so maybe he can narrow down his question a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u344	I've heard five reasons why it's all very bad. But I haven't heard the Animal Party say anything about the explosive growth of the world's population, the overpopulation. There's gonna be billions of people. That's faster than ever. Should something be done about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u345	We can feed three times as many people as we do today with the current agricultural area. That will reassure Mr Madlener, because I see that he is very concerned about the impact of the growth of the world population. All we have to do is switch to a plant-based diet. Then we can give agricultural land back to nature. If that's not a hope and not a chance for sustaining the world and keeping the earth viable, then I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u346	If nourishment was all people needed, then so be it. But people also want to drive, go on holiday, move around, dress up and live in houses. Of course, people want a lot more than feeding. I'm afraid the Party does miscalculate for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u347	No, I'm very aware of what we all want. That is why I asked the Secretary of State to show courage and to break the taboo of the debate on consumption. If we're all gonna live the way we do here, I don't know what car you're driving, but I'm riding the bike, we're not gonna make it. We can all see that. It's gonna take three orbs. I don't know where you'd want it to come from, but I don't think we can just get it on order. If you know that we have to do it with this earth and that our consumption spread across the rest of the world leads to very big problems, then we will have to start with the biggest polluters. And it's no different: that's where we belong. America is still a bit higher, but the Netherlands can do some of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u348	If the Animal Party really thinks that those billions of people who are going to make extra money on Earth are all going to eat soya beans and not go on vacation, I am afraid that Mrs Ouwehand is a bit in a dream world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u349	Let's hope the world stays a little liveable. That's what we're committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u350	Finally, I shall give the floor to Mr Houwers on behalf of the Chamber in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u351	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand spoke mainly to the Secretary of State. I will restore the balance and therefore bring up the infrastructure. The Netherlands has a beautiful infrastructure. Only Singapore and Hong Kong seem to have better infrastructure. But I think that is only the case for a short time. If we continue to invest in new, smart and sustainable roads in the Netherlands, and if we make room for technological developments, such as the self-driving car, I am convinced that we can have the best infrastructure in the world in our country. But we must continue to invest in accessibility. The number of traffic jams will increase rapidly in the near future and with only new asphalt we are not going to solve that problem. I therefore encourage the Minister not to sit still in the coming months, but to continue to focus on long-term agendas that can do something about these congestions. In view of my limited speaking time, I shall deal first with a main subject and then put a few separate questions. The first is road safety, as far as I am concerned. I want to talk about this today, because if we want to have the best infrastructure in the world, we must of course also ensure that it is safe. Last year we also discussed safety and the increase in the number of road accidents. At that time, I expressed all my concerns as to whether we would reduce that number by the means proposed at the time. I was wondering if we would achieve the goals set. Now that I see that there is an increase, I believe that the Minister should greatly increase her commitment in this area. The Minister has promised several times that she will investigate more closely and I have also heard Mrs Belhaj on this question about the causes of the accidents. Can the Minister indicate how far she is with these investigations? Does she have a better idea of the causes of accidents? Can it also indicate how it is going to address this growing problem? I think we should do a little more than just investigate. According to Safe Traffic Netherlands, the smartphone is increasingly the cause of an accident. Therefore, I wonder whether the use of the smartphone could not be monitored afterwards in the event of an accident. You are investigating whether there has been alcohol or drug use. I imagine you're also going to check whether the driver concerned used his smartphone shortly before the accident. Can the Minister indicate if that's a good idea? Is it prepared to examine whether this could be a viable idea for us to be able to serve road safety in practice? I am aware that this is an ex post commitment and that this does not directly increase security. But it may work preventively because people understand that there will be ex post control. In this way, the illegal use of the phone is addressed. That is perhaps a terrifying example. In addition, we should also talk about traffic jams. Others have already spoken about this. In this context, you can talk about more ways or about behavioral influence. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. There are cases where it turns out that people deal with them in a creative way. Of course, that is not entirely the intention. But I think there are still opportunities to do something with behavioral influence. I don't think about charging, Mr Hoogland, because then you pay per kilometer. It's not always about the miles, it's about the moment you drive. I think that we should strive for more time-spreading in this area. Perhaps we can be creative in that. We could also think of a different organisation of freight transport. We could have more cargo transported by inland waterways. Mr Bishop also spoke about this. It could also be done by train, for example. I have the following question: to what extent is it possible to consider a reduction in the fee paid for the use of rail tracks for freight transport? That might be an incentive after all. Then I have some loose questions about the coast. We are talking about a Coastal Pact, but I think that we should prevent it from being totally paralyzed. What is the Minister's view on the coast? I think we should be careful not to put the whole thing on hold and lock it up. To my mind, good initiatives must still be given room, provided that a number of conditions are met. Does the Minister agree with me? Then a question about the local spatial challenges. How will the Minister connect the various spatial challenges in connection with each other? In the budget, the Minister intends to settle this through regional agendas. What will these look like in practice? Isn't that much more a task for the provinces than for the Empire? I also have a question about the multiannual plan for the top transport sector. The Minister, together with the top transport sector, has prepared a dozen actions for the 2015-2020 multiannual plan. Its intention is to further strengthen these actions in 2017. Isn't it time for action instead of tightening targets? To what extent does the Minister also see that action is needed there? To what extent are these actions actually implemented? Then I have a question about the railways, because I will also address the Secretary of State, otherwise the distribution might become incorrect. What decisions will the Secretary of State take in the area of rail and public transport during this period of office, which is not so long? I am referring in particular to the policy area of social security. We're on our way with this. That has already been said. Is there gonna be more, or do we have to see if this is gonna work? What's the Secretary of State gonna do about the crowds on the trains? We've seen you get to stand in first class, if it's too crowded in the second, but is there gonna be any more? I think that we should devote our time mainly to practical things rather than to an unnecessary structural change at ProRail, which the Secretary of State will probably also spend the necessary time on. I'd like to see some things in practice, too. What is the Secretary of State going to do to make it up to the customer or the traveller in the end? The Secretary of State is preparing the national waste plan. Which parties is it going to discuss this with? How is she going to shape that? How comprehensive is that plan going to be? Is asbestos also part of that waste plan? I think asbestos is a serious problem for many and we should do something about it. In doing so, I have remained well within my time and I have fulfilled the President's wish to be brief, so thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u352	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-28.u353	In the meantime, the guardian of the Chamber has done the historic act of tearing off the calendar magazine. We just crossed the time of midnight. I would like to thank the honourable Members for their contributions. I would, of course, like to thank the rulers for their attention. It is planned that we will continue this debate on Thursday morning, Mr Deo volente, because Mr Bishop is still present.
