ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows someone in their environment who is unable to participate properly in the regular labour market and needs support to work because of a visible or invisible disability. Not only during work visits have I seen how important it is for people to have a job. Also in my life for politics I worked on a team in which there was room for employees who just needed a little more support. The added value of work is particularly great for this group of people. You're part of it. You can and may contribute to society. It is precisely for this group that we have made a number of specific agreements with the introduction of the Participation Act, which appear to be under pressure in practice. The people who it's about are worried about this. Whether they are people who are unable to earn the legal minimum wage or those who can only work in a sheltered working environment, they should not have to worry about whether they have the right support from the municipality in which they live. I find it difficult to understand that municipalities are increasingly failing to comply with the agreement on the provision of sheltered work places and are resisting an anchoring in the law, while the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) supports the necessity in the consultation in the Work Chamber. I find that downright disappointing. In addition, I cannot understand that there are people who expect that opening up the practical route would open the door to including people without restrictions in the target register. Let's stop scaring each other and scaring each other. The implementation of the Participation Act may not be flawless in all respects, but I am confident that the present amendment will make implementation easier in practice and make it easier to create a labour market in which everyone can participate. This does not include putting people into day-to-day spending if they are able to get into wage-forming work. That may sound a bit technical, but unfortunately that is what municipalities are doing now. People who can work under adapted circumstances do not get this opportunity, unlike the appointment made. There are municipalities that offer these workplaces. So it's possible. There are two main elements to this legislative amendment. In addition, there is a ministerial arrangement abolishing the so-called re-employment conditions. These are three elements that have been removed from the field after long consultation with all the parties concerned as a solution to a number of identified problems which hinder the objective of achieving a labour market in which everyone can participate. There is also part of the problem. We all note that there are blockades in the implementation. Then there is endless talk of finding a solution that all parties support. In the previous debates, we discussed in detail the problems we face in practice and in the implementation of the law. I can't explain it in my neighborhood. We passed a law in 2014 with the aim of an inclusive labour market. We're looking at what someone can do instead of what someone can't. We've made agreements with social partners and the VNG. We have employers, we have jobs and we have people, but the practice turns out to be a different one. By means of all kinds of rules in implementation, employers and the people who are involved cannot find each other. It is a good thing that some of these rules are finally being amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u3	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mrs Nijkerken, are you going to continue on the same subject or have you largely closed it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u5	I'll go on about this for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u6	Shall we wait for that for a moment, Mrs Karabulut? Continue, madam...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u7	Well, I'd rather not...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u8	Please continue, Mrs. Nijkerken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u9	As I pointed out, we have talked a lot about this matter in terms of content and many times. The VVD therefore sees the present legislative amendment as a complete package. I have also emphasised this in previous debates. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State is now presenting this as a single proposal to the Chamber. I understand that individual municipalities may experience the obligation to offer sheltered work as intervention in the policy freedom of municipalities. I'm not being light about this. Frankly, I am very upset that we need to talk about imposing an obligation. But agreements aren't being kept. In fact, fewer and fewer municipalities keep to the agreements, despite the funds from the Municipal Fund to realize these places and the many handouts that have been made in the past period. The figures show no improvement, rather a decline. Putting people in day-to-day spending that can come to work does the people who it's about, lack. Work is essential to them. In fact, this part of the legislative amendment is no more than anchoring an earlier agreement in the law. I do think it is important to stress that the VVD attaches great importance to the freedom of municipalities to implement the way in which they intend to design the sheltered work, even after this legislative amendment. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to confirm this in reply to the first deadline. So can the Secretary of State explain once again when there is actually wage-creating work, because that is the criterion for offering shelter. I have a feeling there's still some uncertainty about that. Following questions from the VVD on the possibility of a re-evaluation, the State Secretary indicated that there was no mention of this in the Participation Act. What does this mean, in concrete terms, in the context of the development that someone is going through? Someone may first be dependent on a sheltered place, but someone will develop in such a way that working in a guarantee job, for example, will be one of the possibilities. The VVD doesn't want to hold people in a booth or an arrangement. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into the possibilities of including in the opinion on sheltered work the potential development perspective of someone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u10	I believe we have here a so-called white. Mrs. Karabulut, would you like to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u11	No, not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Heerma?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u13	Yes, I would like to comment on the last point. The Members of Parliament received a letter yesterday from Cedris containing a number of points. One of these points is very similar to the question that the VVD Group has just asked: what if development is taking place? What if sheltered work can be temporary, so a stepping stone to regular work or a possibility for a temporary relapse? That's what Cedris writes. Cedris suggests that you should use sheltered work not only as a provision but also as an instrument. Does that touch the point the VVD is making here or is that a misconception?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u14	The point I'm making here is that people can develop in my perspective. Whether you call that a provision or an instrument, this is about people. If an advice sheltered work is being issued, I would very much like the Secretary of State to consider whether there is any possibility of reaching a broader opinion in consultation with the UWV or something like a description of the development perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u15	My impression is that this is very close to what Cedris writes. Perhaps I am attacking you with this, Mrs Nijkerken, but I heard you say that on behalf of the VVD Group during the debate. That's a lot like a question I wanted to ask. Perhaps the VVD group can look at the point of Cedris. Depending on the answers of the Secretary of State, this may be something to return to in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u16	I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State will respond to this. I will continue my speech. Over the past period, it has become more than clear that many employers want to offer guarantee jobs. A compliment for that is really in order. Entrepreneurs have kept their end of the bargain in difficult times. Now the government has to come to terms with it. In practice, it appears that it is difficult to make people eligible for the target group register through the UWV. We have often drawn attention to this in previous debates. The VVD is therefore very satisfied with the opening of the practical route. This makes it possible to assess from a workplace whether someone is eligible for this target group register. Not long ago, I spoke to a son's mother with autism. He really wanted to work with the necessary guidance, I say work in the care. I will not go into too much detail about the specific case, but without the practical route this boy would not have been eligible for the target group register. With this he should not have continued working with the employer where he was already internship. According to the UWV, he was best placed to work in the production. The municipality where he lives has dared to deliver customization. Customization, that's what this law is all about. He's now working in care, where his heart is. I am convinced that the practical route will make it easier for both employers and job seekers to find each other and avoid disappointments. My final point concerns the abolition of the re-employment requirement. Although this does not require any legislative change, this abolition is part of the overall package of measures and makes it easier for employers and job seekers to implement what we all want to achieve. I continue to work for a labour market where we start from what people can instead of what they can't do, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. In the bill we're discussing tonight, two parts are linked. In recent years, when it comes to the Participation Act, the committee has perhaps mostly debated these parts and disagreed on them. A large part of the Chamber says that sheltered work must be made compulsory. Another part, to which my group belongs, is very opposed. Another part says: the practical route must be found to make the Participation Act work better and to reduce bureaucracy. An agreement has been reached in the workroom to do both. I must say that I appreciate that administratively, precisely because there seemed to be an impasse because some of the people involved, even outside this Chamber, wanted sheltered work but the practical route was absolutely not, and that another part absolutely wanted the practical route but did not want to make it compulsory. It is clear that my group is very happy and enthusiastic about the implementation of the practical route. I also recognise very much what the Secretary of State writes, namely that opening up the practical route can be expected to have a positive effect, both on the demand side and on the supply side. However, my group has some difficulty in requiring sheltered work, as part of the agreement concluded, partly because it is at odds with the idea of decentralization, because the proposal restricts the freedom of local authorities and because it happens very quickly after the law enters into force. It is primarily up to municipalities to decide how sheltered work is to be completed and what alternatives there are. We should also note with each other that municipalities have so far achieved few sheltered places, although there were agreements about them and even the works of the Act have been discussed in depth. I am left with the dilemma that I think it is early to draw the conclusion that it should be forced to do so, rather than looking at other ways of getting it off the ground and through which barriers it does not come off the ground. So my question to the Secretary of State is: wouldn't there have been better routes to get sheltered work off the ground instead of removing this obligation? What barriers does she see that it has not come from the ground? How can they be handled? It is precisely because of the concerns and questions about sheltered work and whether it is not going to cause new financial or other problems that I have today tabled an amendment with Mr Schouten from the Christian Union to evaluate the law and look specifically at these elements. I like to get an appreciation from the cabinet. That amendment, when I speak for myself, is based on the appreciation of the administrative solution for a deadlock on two issues, but on the other hand we are still very concerned about the'safe work' part of the legislative proposal. I'm gonna finish with two points, because I'm not gonna keep a very long story. On the first point, I have just asked the colleague of the VVD. We got a letter from Cedris yesterday. One of the points I find very interesting when it comes to sheltered work. Cedris indicates that sheltered work should not only be offered as an instrument but also as an instrument, precisely because it can be temporary, one's stepping up to regular work, or that it can take the form of a temporary relapse. I can imagine that there are hooks and eyes on this, but I think it is a very sympathetic idea. It is related to the question that the VVD Group has just asked. I am therefore curious to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this. My final point is a bit critical, but I will put it as an open question. During the last AO, Mr Koşer Kaya asked a question about the practical route sheltered. The Secretary of State made a fairly clear commitment, but the note on the report followed a somewhat long answer which gave me the feeling that the commitment to Mrs Koşer Kaya might have been watered down. I'd say that's a shame. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to explain that long answer. The beginning of the answer was quite right: this bill is not about a practical route for sheltered working. But from the very long passage that followed, I got the feeling that some of the positive commitment was taken out of the last general consultation. And I'd say that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u18	I have the amendment before me. I am not negative about the things that Mr Heerma has written down, but how should I see this in the light of a lot of other evaluation times that we have already agreed on? We have a plan of approach monitor Participation law, in which I think there are already nine moments when we are going to monitor things. We have the WSW's biennial thermometer. Perhaps the Secretary of State could also comment on this in her reply. We must avoid doing all kinds of things twice and creating a huge burden by simply evaluating each other and not being involved in the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u19	During the past cabinet period, some legislative proposals have been regularly introduced by the coalition itself to tighten up evaluation times, both in time and in form. This amendment raises the issue of evaluation and, precisely on the elements of the law that we are not enthusiastic about, indicates that it needs to be thoroughly evaluated. That is separate from thermometers that are always there, and general consultations that are always there on certain subjects. This is a legislative proposal for which we are putting forward the evaluation exercise, with a number of demands, in line with amendments which I believe the VVD has also tabled in the last period on legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u20	In the written round, I myself asked for the evaluation. That is why I am not against this either, but does Mr Heerma agree with me that we should take a good look at things that do not interfere? Mr Heerma says he wants to bring forward the evaluation, but I need us to get an overview of the times when we are going to evaluate what things are going to be. Maybe we can make certain things a little easier to reconcile. If this amendment is to succeed, we might be able to base it on it. I really don't think it makes any sense to do things triple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u21	I am a little reluctant in my reply, because I have heard twice that you are not reluctantly opposed to the amendment. I have some fear that my answer will turn that around, so I will respond very little. Laws are always reviewed and there are regular general consultations where the Chamber also evaluates progress. If we do not want to do things in duplicate, it has a general implication on all the issues where we evaluate legislative proposals and discuss them in general. I get the point, but I find the question a little difficult, because this still applies anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u22	After this well-chosen self-limitation, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. The Participation Act would help more people to work. GroenLinks voted against the law. We supported the idea of moving to a single regulation, but the corresponding cuts were far too large at the time, and they now appear to be far too large. Last year, municipalities had a deficit of 400 million euros. This deficit is expected to increase. The question is what impact this has on the opportunities people get to participate in our society. At the time of the introduction of the Participation Act, one of the most important elements was that there would still be good, full-fledged workplaces for people who do not manage without help on our demanding labour market, people who need extra guidance or an adapted workplace, people who cannot work with a regular employer, as it is called in jargon, or people who can work well in a sheltered workplace. For them too, work is important to provide for their own income, but also because work provides structure and a network and because it contributes to society. With the closure of the Social Employment Services Act, there would be a solution for these people. There were supposed to be 30,000 sheltered places. Municipalities had to see for themselves how they would decorate it. They had the task of finding all the appropriate forms of participation for these residents. GroenLinks, of course, attaches great importance to the policy freedom of municipalities, because municipalities know their citizens and they know what is a right place. They can provide an appropriate workplace that matches the talents and needs of their residents. We wanted to be sure that there would be enough shelter for those who needed it. That is why, together with the SP, we have drawn up an amendment to make sheltered work compulsory. That amendment was rejected, among other things, by the Labour Party, because those 30,000 places would come naturally. Mr President, 115! 115 sheltered places came, while there should have been 3,200. Only 8% of the municipalities have one or more sheltered areas. In 2016, there were even more municipalities than in 2015 that chose not to create sheltered workplaces. That is really too thin as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Municipalities make this choice mainly because they do not want to take financial risks, partly because of the cuts that are still coming but perhaps more because of the uncertainty about the amount of money they will receive in the future. Of course, that's not so crazy when you've had to raise money to keep your SW business running for years. We all knew that in advance. For this reason, municipalities have sought alternatives to enter into a contract of employment but not to enter into a contract of employment. They sometimes found quite nice solutions, such as daily spending, volunteering and otherwise. The problem with this is that the people who are involved do not get a contract of employment. They do not receive a minimum wage level and it is uncertain how many hours they can continue to work or participate. They cannot provide their income on their own, even though they do participate. For this reason GroenLinks considers it important that there are places for sheltered work. GroenLinks wants people, whether they are people with disabilities or not, to be able to get a job and normally get paid for it. We also want people themselves to have the opportunity to seek sheltered work, because that is also their own direction. Although we attach great importance to policy freedom for municipalities, that last argument is ultimately decisive for us to vote in favour of this bill. We still have reservations about the funding. If municipalities are required to set up sheltered areas, they must also be given sufficient resources to do so. It turns out it's not clear what one shelter costs. With a view to changing social work provision, with the whole infrastructure changing with all its consequences for the costs of counselling and the workplace, the question is certainly what the costs will be in the future and what municipalities should get per place. After the significant deficit of 2015, further cuts in the Participation Act will be made in the coming years. The deficit per sw site is therefore only increasing further. Municipalities can therefore not accept an overpriced sheltering place themselves. Municipalities and SW companies indicate that the money they receive per sheltered area is too little. They fear that municipalities will have to invest money in every place. The Secretary of State continues to deny that. She says that there is a sufficient budget for municipalities and that in her view there is no need for more financial resources. In the report, the Secretary of State writes that there is currently no crystallised picture of the actual costs per shelter. Exactly that's the problem! If money is not added now, GroenLinks thinks it is important to keep at least a firm finger on the wrist. We need to keep a close eye on how much one shelter costs on average and whether this corresponds to what municipalities get for this. Then we also know whether the bonus of €3,000 per shelter is still needed after 2020 and whether additional measures are needed. I am therefore considering a motion to monitor this and report annually to the Chamber from 2019 on whether the costs and resources for sheltered workplaces still agree. A second aspect I would like to draw attention to is the number of sheltered areas. At present, 100,000 people are employed in the social services sector. Later on, there will be money for 30,000 places, but according to the Cedris branch organisation, 40% of the 100,000 WSW workers worked in a sheltered area or in a training course in a SW company in 2014. So that's 40,000 places! You'll only be that thirty thousand-and-first person who needs shelter and is entitled to it! Because 30,000 people went before him, he's unlucky! That is the risk we run if we pin funding on 30,000. GroenLinks suspects that in the long term more than 30,000 places will really be needed. That is not unrealistic either, since there are now 100,000 people working in the social service, while the Wajong is closed to people who are very well able to use shelter. People who can only work in a sheltered place are not just people with a benefit from the municipality. Also people without benefits, the so-called non-contributorys with limited wage values, or Wajangers will not find a job with a regular employer and would like to work in a sheltered place. Can the Secretary of State address the question of how the number of 30,000 relates to the total potential target group being sheltered? Is that assessment real? Does she agree with GroenLinks that, in the long term, more places and therefore more funding will probably be needed? As GroenLinks, we ourselves already take this into account in our election programme and in our pass-through. Then I have a question about the division of the country, but perhaps it would be better to wait for Mrs Schouten's interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u24	You were done on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u25	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u26	Then Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u27	That 30,000 comes from somewhere. It was in the social agreement. This number has been agreed. Does Mrs Voortman say that the social partners have been wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u28	Well, I don't think it's a real assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u29	Why is this how many years has it been? Three years? Didn't you communicate three years ago? Why wasn't it said by GroenLinks that, for example, the FNV had been completely wrong with the estimate that 30,000 places were sufficient? Now that we made that deal, isn't it a little late? We are now in the process of honouring that very agreement. I will say a few words about this in my contribution. Isn't it three years too late to come up with these comments all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u30	I don't see why it would be too late now. We can look at developments. In fact, I think I have said this in the very extensive treatment of the Participation Act. But even if I hadn't mentioned it, I still don't think it's too late, because you also have to look at developments you're expecting. Just as you do not always know how many asylum seekers come to the Netherlands, so there may also be developments here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u31	It is true that it is always an assessment, but the Participation Act, which has indeed not supported GroenLinks, has, of course, taken a lot of other measures to ensure that people could end up on a regular basis, not necessarily in a shelter. How does Mrs Voortman take this into account in the whole of the 30,000 sheltered workplaces plus all the other efforts that are still being made to get people, for example Wajangers, into a regular workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u32	Perhaps Mrs Schouten came in later, but I have just indicated that. You should also look at what suits people best. But I think that eventually there will also be people for whom sheltered work is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u33	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u34	Then I have another question about the division of the country. The money for the 30,000 places is divided between municipalities and each municipality receives a commission for the number of places it has to offer to the maximum. I do not need to dwell on the fact that the estimates of the Empire, for example in the distribution model, sometimes turn out wrong. What if the current distribution between municipalities is not exactly correct? You will only live in a municipality that has to make ten sheltered workplaces and realize them very quickly. You'll only report as an 11th resident for a shelter and then find out that you're unlucky because the municipality has already reached its target. Can the Secretary of State explain how the distribution of places between municipalities is achieved and how it is monitored that there are really enough places for all people who can only work with additional guidance or a adapted workplace? Then I have a brief practical question. When is the intended entry into force? Is it true that 1 January 2017 is foreseen and, if so, will it be achieved in the light of the agenda of the First Chamber? Finally, I would like to say something about the practical route of access to the target group register. In the social agreement, it was agreed that 125,000 additional jobs would be created for people with disabilities, the job deal. The people with disabilities who count must be included in the target population register. It is therefore important that the target group register is properly filled. Fortunately, this already happens with students from secondary special education, Wajangers and WSW'ers. In addition, people from the Participation Act were allowed to be nominated for an Indication Jobs Appointment. However, the theoretical assessment of the UWV was not always consistent with the experience in the workplace. The practical route will contribute to the number of people in the target group register and thus can work with an employer in the framework of the job agreement. It's good to keep an eye on whether this is actually happening. In any case, GroenLinks supports the line taken and hopes that this proposal will contribute to achieving the agreed goals in the job agreement. Finally. Work for the most vulnerable in our society is not self-evident. If we leave it to the market, they will remain on the sidelines. So I cannot help but express once again my concern about the financial frameworks of the Participation Act, but also about the outspoken regulation and coercion that people experience under the Participation Act. Release people and offer them opportunities and prospects for work for a fair reward. Then you make sure that everyone can participate fully in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. Covered work is explicitly included as an instrument in the Participation Act from the point of view that there is always a group of people who have wage values, but can only achieve this wage value in a sheltered environment. That sounds more complicated than it is. In our view, it was a shame to be able to close the social workshops. So it was nothing more and nothing less than an alternative to the death home construction that made this cabinet of social services. The alternative was the promise that municipalities would catch it. They were gonna take care of it. This was, moreover, following the promise made by this Secretary of State during Rutte I cabinet, namely that all social work facilities would remain open with unlimited influx. This Secretary of State said in June 2009, as I quoted earlier, "It's a beautiful day today thanks to the fact that the municipalities have just said no to the government's plans. This means that the people of the social workshops can simply continue to do their fantastic work standing up." End quote. The Secretary of State also hoped "that this cabinet still shows something of a social face," end quote. If not, the cabinet had to go home as soon as possible, because that's not how you wanted to run your country. We have now moved on almost two years since the introduction of the Participation Act. It now appears that more than a quarter of the municipalities do not offer the sheltered work or do not offer it sufficiently. The municipalities that offer sheltered work have only realized 115 sheltered jobs until April 2016, while the estimates are based on 3,200 at the end of this year. You shouldn't want to run like that, I'm gonna repeat to the Secretary of State. Only one person is jointly or mainly responsible for this, and that is the Secretary of State. Despite promises to reverse everything, it has abolished the social security system. We think it is transparent to use this law just before the elections as if nothing had been done and nothing had been broken down. That again feels like a pubic. For years many disabled people have been left to their own devices. A number of 115 sheltered areas are of course completely poor. The question is what will be better with this new bill. Is the financing of the provisions sufficient or will the municipalities soon increase their burden to comply with the new legal obligation? That is a point we need to answer, otherwise we will get it back in another way. People at home are going to pay higher taxes again. Is it not at the expense of existing cases to expand the target group? If not, how can we be sure in The Hague that this will happen? How many people are at home now? More questions have already been asked about these 30,000 people. What's the deal, exactly? I agree with Mrs Voortman, who has also asked for clarification on this matter. The portee of the law is that people with reduced wage values are more likely to fall within the target group of the Quotum Act among municipalities, so that it seems as if the government has fulfilled its quota better than it seems to be now. This is a enforceable construction cast, whereby people with reduced wage values are less easily excluded. Do we have this right? We really want to help people, but we do want all this cleared up. I am critical, but I am of course quite positive about the possibility of helping those people. The cabinet wants to take measures from its system responsibility to ensure that all municipalities create places for people who can only work under sheltered conditions; that is what it really is. So it's imposed on municipalities, but that's what the Council of State is against again. I would also like to get an explanation on this. I have a final matter, with half a minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u36	This is legislation. You don't have to race. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u37	I had registered, but I might have taken a little more lyrics after all. The last issue I would like to raise concerns The Hague, where the Secretary of State has been alderman. One of its successors is Mr Baldewsingh, also of the Labour Party. He has repeatedly argued over the past few weeks that the town hall must be de-whitened. He was talking about people's skin color. He wasn't talking about the outside, but he literally said the inside of the town hall needs to be dewhitened. I thought for a moment that Mr Baldewsingh had become alderman of the ANC in South Africa. But no, he really seems to be a PvdA guy. Does the Secretary of State support these statements by her party colleague, who he made purely on the basis of skin colour? Or does she distance herself from that? I would like to have clarity at this point. Then there's my final question. Does the Secretary of State agree if the policy on shelters is actually doing very nicely there; we should also honestly say that this is also a victim of the evading practices of her partymate in the Ice Palace? Or is the Secretary of State going to appeal to him on this behavior and on these statements and prevent people with reduced wage values from falling under an unwitting policy, no matter how disgusting it sounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u38	I was just thinking about whether your final remarks would all fall within the scope of the law, but I think it's possible. Clever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Chairman. This bill actually holds the middle between the VVD and the PvdA. That's pretty smart. The government does that all the time. On the one hand she puts something in the bill that is nice for the VVD, on the other hand she puts in something that is nice for the PvdA, i.e. the practical route and the obligation for municipalities to realize sheltered work. The government also announces that the two are consciously knotted together. It's fair that she mentions that again. As a result, however, we have to make haste to deal with both plans, because the practical route involves changes in the Tax Administration that have to be implemented by 1 January in order to keep it all viable. I understand the wish, also because it has been agreed with all the parties involved. At the same time, I get the feeling that we are now very soon back in the process of implementing legislation. Have we looked at everything well and is what we are doing well thought out? This requires careful treatment. That is why I would like to hear from the Secretary of State a reflection on how all this has gone, including with the parties in practice, and whether it should not be carried through too much steam and boiling water. I'm getting to the contents. We are very pleased with the practical route. In July of this year, a motion by myself and Mr Heerma to introduce such a practical route as soon as possible was still rejected. Now there's a ready-made bill and that's nice. In order to help people with disabilities to work, it is important that they be able to get into the target group for employment, because employers will have all kinds of advantages if they become employed. It makes it easier to get a job, even if you have a disability. So far it is in many cases necessary that the UWV then approves you. That resulted in clumsy situations, because the UWV assumes your theoretical ability to determine what you could earn. It is already possible to establish in practice what the exact wage value of a person is. But it can even lead to crazy situations that in practice someone has reduced wage values, but at the UWV does not end up in the target employment agreement. It is therefore a good thing that this legislative proposal provides for the possibility of establishing in practice whether a person falls within the target group for employment. I have just said that it is important that the practical route is in the Official Journal before 1 January. That is, of course, a route with risks, as it is now the last week of November. Suppose the First Chamber gets it on its hips. That doesn't happen often, but we can't rule it out. Perhaps the Secretary of State could reconsider exactly what will happen next. As a result, my question is about the premium discount, because I did not find the documents on this very clear. That is why I am once again asking whether the premium discount applies only at the start of new employment. On the practical route, I can imagine that the employment is already starting, assuming that benefits can also be expected which include once it is established that someone is entering the target group. Does it not make sense, then, to grant the premium discount even when the target group is later established for the job appointment via the practical route? So it can go in when the employment has already taken place and the wage value has been set. Otherwise, it is rather unattractive for employers to use the practical route, unless someone is supposed to test for a few months first, without employment. Or does the entitlement to a premium discount work differently in the practical route? What's the deal with that, exactly? Is there no inequality between the practical route on the one hand and the UWV route on the other? It will undoubtedly be my limited ability to understand exactly. That is why I thought I would ask just to be sure, so that it is clear to employers in particular. That seems to me to be the most important thing. I come to the obligation to achieve sheltered work. It is at the end of 2016 and that means that municipalities, on paper, should have achieved some 3,200 sheltered sites together. In reality, there are only a few hundred, if there are already a few hundred, divided into a few cities. That's just not good. But the obligation for municipalities to achieve sheltered work is a complex dilemma for the Christian Union. We've just had a decentralisation, leaving this to municipalities. A few years later, we put the reins back on. I would like a reflection from the Secretary of State on that. What went wrong here? I note that the Secretary of State has not really got a clue as to why municipalities do not carry out sheltered work. I am getting signals that many municipalities are opting for other solutions for the group that would be eligible for sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mrs Schouten, fill that out yourself. Why do you think municipalities are reluctant to realize sheltered work? What are the reasons for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mrs Karabulut looks at me very angry. Well, let's take Tilburg, where the SP is in college. In Tilburg, they choose to offer daily spending, because it is cheaper. But when municipalities make agreements and receive funding, we also find it very realistic that they comply with these agreements and also with the funding they receive for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'm fine with this political game. I don't care if the SP is in college or not. The Christian Union has agreed to substantial cuts. The Christian Union has agreed to decentralisation. At the time, we proposed with GroenLinks to ensure that it became mandatory. You didn't support that. And now you're gonna blame me for having a college with the SP that doesn't? I'll tell you how it is, Mrs. Schouten. They just don't have enough money. We simply want decent jobs with a decent contract, including for people with disabilities. That means you have to take care of it right. Because it's not arranged properly, only a few hundred places have been realized. That's why, Mrs. Schouten. It would adorn you, and hence my anger, if you look more critically at your own decision-making and your own role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u43	I always want to look critically at my own role. In this case, and that actually applies to a lot of movements we have made in recent years, we have given the municipalities the lead. We have done so in the full conviction that municipalities are much better able to assess what is needed at local level. I have just outlined that my dilemma with this law is also that we are going to take care of something more centrally, when you would really like local democracy to do its job. That is my starting point, and I believe that we have adopted all these laws. The municipalities themselves also signed the agreement. We didn't just do that. The municipalities have done the same. They have signed a total of 30,000 places, and they also receive funding for this. Then I do think that at some point we can make an appeal to them and say: listen, we have an agreement, you have co-signed and it is not realized. So what's going on? Some lectures probably choose to offer cheaper daily spending and thus help more people to find a place, but I wonder if those lectures themselves do not believe that these people should also have a contract, as the SP advocates. And what is the definition of "limited wage capacity" and "with few opportunities to make money"? I believe that Mrs Nijkerken-De Haan also indicated that. Apparently, there's a little light in there. I am now going to fill it out for the Secretary of State, who I think will reflect on it myself, but my ideal would have been to do so, and I still think that municipalities themselves are fulfilling their policies and agreements that we have made with each other. If they do not do so after repeated questions and calls, after I do not know how many administrative meetings, then there will come a time when we may have to draw it back to us. Is it ideal? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mrs Schouten has just answered the question of why municipalities do not choose to fill in that sheltered work: because it is cheaper. Then why do they choose to do that? Because the budgets are way too tight. Last year there was a deficit of 400 million. Those are considerable deficits. If you leave something to municipalities, you should also make sure that municipalities are able to comply with those agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u45	I am getting a little ahead of my conclusion, but we can live with that obligation later because the Secretary of State has indicated that she is going to provide money. That is an important point for us. If we are going to send more here, we will have to enable the municipalities to do so. I note that the Secretary of State is also making money available for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u46	Then we are in complete agreement on that point. Then you can ask yourself the next question. We have discussed this Act of Participation in detail. At that time the proposal was on the table to make it compulsory to offer sheltered work. Couldn't we have decided that by then? That would have made sense sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u47	Then I come back to the interruption I myself made to Mrs Voortman: this was an agreement from the social agreement. We have codified a lot of things from the social agreement here, because they were agreements between the parties involved: the employers' and employees' organisations. The workers' organisations who were later demonstrating outside have also made this agreement themselves. I always find that double to be faint. If they themselves make agreements that we have here in laws and regulations, they must also be so tough to acknowledge that they themselves made that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs. Schouten continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u49	I'm gonna go look for where I left off in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u50	You've had a lot, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u51	Yeah, but I always have to get the line back from where I left off. The municipalities will soon be obliged to offer this to someone who needs sheltered work, at least to some extent. Not only the municipality can let the UWV judge whether someone is eligible for such a place, but also the person himself. The College still has a decision to take, but I read the law in such a way that the advice of the UWV must always be followed. If I'm wrong, I'm happy to hear it, but that's how I'm reading the law right now. You would expect the influx into the sheltered work to take care of itself. After all, the municipality is obliged to offer someone sheltered work if necessary. Whether that's necessary, someone can be determined by the UWV. In order to keep that manageable, the government will soon be able to determine annually the number of places to be realized, also to steer at the appointment of 30,000 places. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly how that will go? I imagine that every year the number of places to be realized will be looked at per municipality. Mrs Voortman also had this question: if the municipality has realized the number, what happens to the people who do not have to get a place because the municipality has already delivered their share? Are these people gonna be on the waiting list? Are they going to spend the day anyway? Can there be an exchange with municipalities where there are not enough places yet, but where there are no people who have been advised to go to the sw? I do not want to end up in a huge bureaucratic circus, in which every year a kind of tombola arises about how many people are to be offered sheltered work in a particular place. I come to a question that has been asked before. Cedris suggests that you should also be able to offer sheltered work temporarily. It was just about that in an interruption debate between the CDA and the VVD. What's the Secretary of State's reaction to this? We think it is an interesting proposal in itself, but perhaps there are certain things that we should not want to do. Can the Secretary of State respond to Cedris' suggestion? Additional resources will be made available for sheltered work. But we're also getting signals that there are shortages in the SW. The outflow is also less rapid than expected. How does the Secretary of State view this? SW companies can come back into the picture for the realization of sheltered work. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State. I read that sheltered workplaces must also be realized by regular employers. From the idea of inclusiveness, including work and the Participation Act, I think that's a nice thought. However, I can imagine that local authorities are embarrassed to adopt this approach, even now that an obligation is being introduced. You might get more of an automatism, because it all has to be organized itself instead of looking at whether regular employers can join. What can the Secretary of State do to encourage sheltered work by regular employers? Does she know any examples of places where this was properly picked up? And is it prepared to talk to municipalities about this in order to find out about the possibilities and the ways in which specific challenges can be addressed? What are the options for employers who would like to participate in this? I tabled an evaluation amendment together with Mr Heerma. In doing so, we can assess whether the current law, including its obligation, is actually doing what it is supposed to do. That's important to us. I understand Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan's remark, namely that we have so many moments already. It's not my job to add another moment, but we really need to keep our finger on the wrist. We want to know that the amendment also specifies how this is going to work out in practice, because this is a system change which will make it compulsory for us to do something which was essentially decentralised. It is important for us to look at how this is going to work out in practice. I hope that the Secretary of State can give a positive appreciation of that amendment. I'm waiting for the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. Work has been paid more than once a month with the corresponding salary. It means that you make social contacts, gain life experience, develop yourself, participate and matter. Work makes people happy, according to all kinds of research. With the Participation Act, which entered into force on 1 January last year, we are trying to help people who, like you and I, want to move forward in, with and through their work in life but just a little more, or sometimes a lot more, need help in doing so. We do this by placing the direction in the hands of the municipalities. They are closest to the people and are supposed to know who these people are, what they can do, what they want and what it takes to get there. They have to take into account the personal circumstances of people and deliver customization. We also do this by creating at least 125,000 jobs in business and government for people with disabilities as a colleague between colleagues on the basis of the employment agreement made with employers and trade unions in the social agreement. Corporate social responsibility is more than giving Max Havelaar coffee and using recycled paper. It just means that you're giving the people who it's about in your company a chance. We are also doing this by making at least 30,000 sheltered places on top of them, by filling in municipalities, for people who are even more distant from the labour market. Local authorities are beginning to know their people more and more, thus increasing the chances of a match with a possible job, and business and government, according to last summer's intermediate measurement, are on track with regard to those 125,000 jobs, and sheltered work is quite different. A number of municipalities, not too much, are ugly in default. They do nothing, they do too little or they do not pay their people a decent wage through voluntary work or daily work.................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result, less than 10% of the 3,000 places that should be there by the end of this year have been realized. In other words, almost 3,000 people who have a great distance to the labour market are still receiving benefits at the moment, whereas that should have been a salary. That can't be the intention. It is an agreement to which municipalities and employers have committed themselves, as with those 125,000 guarantee jobs. So those 30,000 places just need to get there. That is why last year the Labour Party released EUR 100 million extra on Princess Day in order to make it financially more attractive for municipalities to work with sheltered work. For some time now, therefore, I have been calling for municipalities to comply by law with those agreements, even if they were made by them and on their own behalf. As far as I'm concerned, they're free in the way they shape that sheltered work. That can be a social workshop or an employer on site, it can be after a run through volunteering or daily spending if they end up with enough real sheltered work places. Places that include a salary that is also paid. I am glad that tonight we are discussing the bill that is going to ensure that, for all those people for whom a shelter is the way to work meaningfully and against a decent wage. Because work is much more than the paycheck, but surely the salary is part of it. It is also good that the Secretary of State has succeeded in agreeing with municipalities, employers and trade unions to impose that obligation. It is also good that she has managed to do so as part of a larger package of measures. A package that brings the inclusive labour market we and other parties stand for, a labour market where people with disabilities can simply participate, as a colleague between colleagues, and to which this law should contribute, one step closer. I will come back to that in a moment. Recently, I asked the Secretary of State to say that the extra EUR 100 million earmarked for this year, which has not yet been spent on sheltered work, remains available and therefore does not return to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State made that commitment. Municipalities and social workshops welcome this. In addition, I would ask the Secretary of State to speak a little more firmly about the fact that she has recently promised me that she will be able to 'adjust a sleeve', if the actual payout figures from social services continue to deviate from the assumptions made when the law enters into force. I would ask her to resolve any financial problems arising from such a derogation, perhaps in the forthcoming Spring paper, and, if possible, to show some of them at the forthcoming budget debate. She has indicated that she is always in conversation with the industry, with Cedris, and with the municipalities. I myself will certainly come back to it on the occasion of the forthcoming budget debate. I just said that making it compulsory to create adequate shelter has become part of a total agreement made by the Secretary of State with municipalities, employers and trade unions. That is why, but also because we in the Chamber have insisted on this, the legislative proposal we are discussing this evening also regulates the so-called practical route. This is an adjustment of the procedure to create a guarantee job, which, according to friend and enemy, will lead to extra places and additional pay instead of a benefit. That's good news. If this can be done by making procedures less cumbersome, complicated and bureaucratic, then of course we as the Labour Party are in favour of it. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to ensure that the consequences of officially opening up this practical route are constantly and strictly monitored. I'd like to see if there are any easier places and who gets into them. I want to see if these are very different people from those who follow the normal path and who enter into orbit through the target groups register. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it cannot be the case that people from the latter group will be much less likely to be caught up by, for example, people who can earn the minimum wage on their own or who cannot do so for a reason other than illness, accident or lack. The pilots held show that this will not be so bad, but still. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that, as soon as the monitoring I have requested shows that it is completely different, she is going to table with trade unions and employers to see what that means for those 125,000 places we agreed on together. I'm gonna lock up. The Labour Party, as much as it is clear, welcomes the introduction of the so-called practical route, which has listened to practical suggestions and which will lead to more people from a distance from the labour market getting into a real job. We all benefit from that, those people themselves in the first place. I have just said what we need to keep an eye on and how we should do that as far as I am concerned. The Labour Party also welcomes the fact that, in addition to the at least 125,000 job guarantees for people with disabilities to enter, the 30,000 sheltered jobs agreed on on top of them are receiving the attention they deserve. By guaranteeing the latter now in the law, the people who it is all about are given a place of work that takes account of their talents and their limitations, at a decent salary, because they deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. Mandatory job protection and the practical route: we have discussed this repeatedly in the House of Representatives. Colleague Heerma mentioned that as well. One half was in favour of not making sheltered work compulsory and the other half wanted to make the practical route possible. On the one hand, it is very nice that the Secretary of State in her office has linked the two. So we will all have to consider both aspects. On the other hand, this does not do justice to the real content of its discussion and to the fact that each of these instruments is good enough to make it possible in practice. However, we will now have to discuss these two together and consider them. I'll start with the practice route. D66 is very pleased with the practical route. We've often argued for that. Opening up the practical route to the target group of the job agreement is therefore a good step forward. In addition, we have also asked whether the practical route is also possible for sheltered work, at least to investigate whether that is a possibility. The Secretary of State has previously made a commitment to me: yes, I want to do that for you, we will find out and inform the Chamber about it. Now I read in the note on the report that this is not so clearly promised anymore. I'm being very gentle right now. Maybe the Secretary of State can clarify that. I come to the obligation of sheltered work. With the entry into force of the Participation Act, municipalities have been given the responsibility to help as many people as possible to work in need of support. Offering 30,000 sheltered places is part of that. D66 also sees that the numbers of sheltered areas are left behind. It is good that the Secretary of State is critical of that. We too are critical of this. But the law has only been in force for a year and a half and the number of 30,000 sheltered sites is not intended until 2048. That's a lot of years from now. D66 attaches great importance to the fact that municipalities really have the freedom of policy and responsibility assigned to them by the Act of Participation, precisely because municipalities have the best view of the needs of their own population and can offer local customization. The Council of State is also very critical of compulsory sheltered work, but at the same time my group sees the need to create adequate shelter for those who need such a place of work as soon as possible. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State once again to indicate what she has done to allow municipalities to create more sheltered places other than by means of an obligation. Could the Secretary of State elaborate on this? The municipalities indicate that they have not yet or are limited to creating places. In a year and a half I can imagine something about that. They can't find candidates or they can't afford it financially. Can the Secretary of State rule on this, too? How does she think the obligation will help in this? And how is she going to give space to the municipalities to properly implement this part of the new law? By the way, I am also very curious about the answers to the idea in the letter from Cedris to make sheltered work possible as an intermediate step. How does the Secretary of State see that? It could also be a response to the criticism of the Council of State, which sees a bottleneck here. Perhaps this will open the way to a better interpretation. Finally. In Tilburg it was chosen not to create new facilities with sheltered work. There people are always looking for an appropriate solution for residents of the target group on an individual level. This Tilburg alternative works. Even more people have been led to work, paid or unpaid, than in municipalities that officially offer sheltered employment. Isn't this what we had in mind with decentralisation? Isn't this a method that other municipalities could take up? Then we do not have to draw back to us a power that we have delegated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing tonight the umpteenth amendment of the Participation Act, which replaced the Welfare Act, the Wajong and the Social Employment Act in 2015. With that law, one of the biggest and meanest cuts of this PvdA/VVD cabinet was also carried out, supported by most parties in the Lower House. I noticed something in the contributions to this. Mrs Schouten said: it should all be simpler, because then you can give the subsidies to the employers and then it is easier to hire people. Mrs Koşer Kaya spoke mainly about the municipal systems. That kind of characterizes this law. This law has no regard for the people who it's about. For who asked for their opinion when and how? What do people actually think of this law? I know a lot of people who are now working in social services and who are concerned about the future. I know a lot of people who got dumped in welfare. In other words, this very large group of hundreds of thousands of people has been made poorer and more insecure. These people need to be involved in the ratchet of flexibility and the passing off of the cuts in this cabinet's plans, which have been caused by the crisis. The aim of the law is to give everyone an equal chance: everyone a fair place and everyone honest work for a fair wage. Mrs. Voortman said the same thing. But the practice turns out to be so much different. It's a bureaucratic monster. Does the Secretary of State recognize that, too? What does the Secretary of State think about the fact that fewer and fewer people with disabilities have entered work in recent years, between 2009 and 2015? 240,000 to be exact. Isn't the agreement of 125,000 insecure jobs to be realized in ten years' time not shabby, if you look at it that way? All the more so because 70,000 real paid places in the social work facility are removed and a death home construction has been devised. Indeed, this was a pubess, I called it "Klijnsma's pubess" at the time, in order to conceal the cuts in social services. That's why the Chamber and MPs are so struggling with this. Because this is actually designed to leave a bit of certainty for the people who really can't do otherwise. At the same time, the finances were not provided. When the Labour Party says that there must be a collective agreement and certain conditions, the funding is not considered, because that is not what the VVD wants. Moreover, we have a problem about whether or not to oblige. And the people are just screwed. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State, I understand that, because she is the Secretary of State, she has to do with the practice and she has implemented this law and the corresponding austerity measures to manage the consequences. She does. She wants to do a number of things, such as obliging municipalities to create sheltered workplaces on closer inspection. In addition, it wants the municipalities to determine who belongs to the target group on a practical route. Let me start with that first point. We have insisted very strongly in the course of the treatment that, if your objective is to create another 30,000 places of old style, to put it that way, it is not entirely, but that was a bit the intention to achieve as a replacement for the death home construction, make sure that you regulate that right away in terms of funding and legislation. We have tabled a proposal, but almost all parties voted against it. And now we're here two years later. What has happened over the past few years to all those people who oh so badly want a real job with a real wage? Last year 1,600 jobs were to be created and 3,200 this year, but the number remained at 116. So, yeah, that commitment's good. We have always argued in favour of this, because there are also people who need it. It is also good that the Secretary of State opens the possibility for people to ask for such a place at the UWV. After all the dismantling of rights, they get the little bitch back to ask for their own advice. How are people informed about this? What about the necessary conditions for all this to work properly? Municipalities simply do not have enough resources and are already suffering from deficits. Others remembered that, too. It's over 300 million. The resources temporarily released from sheltered work by the Secretary of State are insufficient and not structural. Is the Secretary of State at least prepared to make the bonus for sheltered workplaces structural? There's another problem, too. The Secretary of State says: if municipalities realize less places than I dedicate according to a calculation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not according to the needs of people, but according to a calculation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that is allowed and then they can keep the money. But if a lot of people need a place like this, a real place to work, we're not gonna fund it. It serves people towards a waiting list. If the Secretary of State wants to take this step and not be a noose, why isn't the Secretary of State prepared to finance it as needed and to actually realized places? Then how do people, when placed on a waiting list, know where they stand and when they get to? I would also like to comment on that point. A not insignificant point and, at least for the Labour Party, the idea behind all this is: we have a death home for those oh beautiful SW companies, but instead something for those who need support, so that they can participate in workers' rights and full pay. However, I do not read anywhere that there will be a collective agreement for the people who are going to work in these shelters. Of course, that has to do with funding. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State: what is it now? Will it indeed be another temporary toy that we will then evaluate? Or are we building up a number of real workplaces? If so, does the Secretary of State share our view that a collective agreement should be achieved? Shouldn't this be the bet? I come to the second point, the practical route. That has everything to do with who is and is not covered by this law and what people with disabilities can take things to a job, to put it that way. We have tabled a lot of motions and amendments in the past to broaden the target population register, so that everyone with a disability is counted for the job deal and the quota. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that. It is therefore quite remarkable that the Secretary of State now broadens the target group register and the job deal through the so-called "practice route'. I understand all the concerns and practical obstacles, but at the same time I think: what does this mean for people? There has been a trial, and I believe all this, but how are we going to determine whether or not someone has a limitation? That's happening through the UWV now. This is said to be too theoretical. Municipalities do it in a practical way. But I want to be sure that the purpose of this law, namely to help people with disabilities to get a job, is maintained and that the law does not lead to repression, so that employers get good subsidies but that the hundreds of thousands of people who are looking for a job can eventually whistle for it. I have prepared two amendments for this. I would very much like the Secretary of State to listen to the SP on this point for once, so that we do not have to correct it years later. Finally, I have a question about releasing the re-employment conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mrs Karabulut refers to me all the time when she talks about subsidies for employers, so I think she is referring to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mrs Schouten's point was so striking: making it easier for employers and then people get to work. The practice is completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u57	Perhaps that is the crux for practice and perhaps Mrs Karabulut should reflect on it sometime. I also come to the country and sometimes speak to people with such an employer. In fact, I have spoken to employers a number of times who said: please do me a number of people, whom I really like to help out and which I really like to invest in; all I ask is to help me a little bit with the difference in pay value between what someone gets in pay and what they actually earn, because that makes the threshold for helping someone get to work a little easier. That is what I believe we are all pursuing here. Mrs Karabulut cannot be very angry at the moment when we are asking for a proper arrangement to be made so that those people can be helped to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u58	I don't get mad for that reason. Then Mrs Schouten completely misunderstands me. In fact, she misses the crux of where things go wrong. I am angry that we are first breaking down a pearl of a provision with a good collective agreement and a good wage for those people who need it, and then wanting to replace a b alternative and not even get it done. I am angry that workers' rights have been broken down and that subsidies are now going to employers, when we are not prepared to organise security for the people. That makes me angry, not to solve practical problems. Yeah, I know those employers, too. Of course, there are social entrepreneurs who are eager to get to work and who are hampered by bureaucracy. Of course we have to solve that, but the story is more than that. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u59	I would point out that Mrs Karabulut is creating a false contradiction, in which employers are getting a good subsidy and workers are being put in the cold. One can't do without the other. If an employee is to be employed, then there will really have to be an employer who can hire him. This is what all these measures are aimed at. That's what we've been trying to do. I find it really disgusting when Mrs Karabulut pretends that we are just trying to benefit employers. These are employers who want to invest in those people. The fact that we are helping them to do this seems to me to be more than right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u60	The Christian Union has taken away many of these workers, people with disabilities who are looking for a job, their security, and is now looking for an alternative. Of course I'll help improve that alternative. But the Christian Union had done the right thing, and I am still very sad about it, not to break down the pearls and the certainties that we had, and then come back with uncertain alternatives, which indeed do not even seem to help. That's all I'm asking: a little self-reflection. That's all I'm asking. Mrs Schouten cannot deny that there are hundreds of thousands of people who are either unpaid work without pay or looking for a job or are being dragged from regulation to regulation, while we could also think about a way to organise decent contracts with each other. But that is not what Mrs Schouten is about, because she has signed up to abolish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mrs. Schouten, you're being addressed, so you can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u62	In my view, the aim here should be to find the best opportunities, both for the employer and for the employee. The SP stays in its own record and is not willing to look at how to improve the existing practice. I admit that there is a need to improve things. I have put up my whole speech on this, but to make a caricature of employers who collect premiums, I really fit for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u63	I don't make a caricature of employers, the policy is just ridiculous. Over and over again, every study shows that the sec subsidises and opening up more schemes... I say that apart from the problems that exist. I have also made proposals for the solution of this. I want to build in certainties. Premium discounts and all that kind of stuff and allowance subsidies don't work when you haven't organized the place properly. That's what it turns out. What is being done in practice about these jobs, about these super-job agreements? Most of the jobs still go through existing SW companies. Why? Employers do not want this burden, employers do not want that responsibility at all. What I advocate is that we provide those guarantees for the people. They must not suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u64	This is simply a factual error. We received the figures for the job agreement last time. Who would have done the best? Business. Business had employed most people, not the Empire. We have attacked this Secretary of State for that. Mrs Karabulut says: the companies do not employ the people at all. That's not true. Look at the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u65	Well, the figures show that 240,000 people with disabilities work less. It is true that, of course, a large proportion of the jobs are provided by employers through SW posting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u66	There is a second term, Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mrs Karabulut and I have not often agreed in the debates on the Participation Act in recent years. In the beginning, however, we agreed on the fact that the Participation Act looked very much like the Work Act according to ability, as it was in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u68	Well, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u69	Our parties have been consistent in the appreciation of that legislation. Although I very much disagree with many of Mrs Karabulut's points, I understand that she repeats the criticism she has always had here. That's consistent criticism. The further progress of your speech does raise questions for me. The bill contains amendments to legislation on which you have always been very critical. But what do you think of these adjustments and what is your appreciation of the present bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u70	I just explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u71	You have explained a great deal about the previous legislation and, above all, what the criticism of the SP was about the Participation Act, a law that we have dealt with here and which has now entered into force. An appointment has been made in the Work Room, which can therefore count on support, and there are proposals to adapt a number of things. These are matters of which my party was in favour and which your party was critical and of which your party was in favour and which my party was critical. If you look at the whole thing, is this a proposal that your party can support or is it too little too late and a bad proposal that the SP is not going to support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u72	I have looked at everything and in my view you cannot, of course, separate that from the law. It's about the Participation Act! I'm sad it has to be like this. I have also indicated what I like about both parts: yes, sheltered work must come. What I find problematic is that funding is insufficient. And what I'm struggling very much with is the practical route. Don't you open the door to subsidised cheaper labour at the expense of the people who it should be about? In other words, isn't this about displacement? I've made proposals to prevent that. I have asked questions and, on the basis of the answer, I will assess what we are going to do with this law. Because I haven't figured that out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u73	You will end your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr President, I should indeed like to ask my last question about releasing the re-employment condition. The question to the Secretary of State is: how is the Secretary of State going to ensure that, as of next year, the people who have already been indicated and are already at work via SW, whether or not they are accompanied or posted, do not count? I'm asking because it was the initial agreement to actually create new jobs. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until exactly 9.30 p.m. to allow the Secretary of State to prepare her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u76	I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for her answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr. Chairman. I am of course grateful to the Chamber for its initial contribution, but not only that, I would also like to thank the Chamber for the speedy handling of this bill as well as for the speedy way in which it has been presented, in this case the Bureau. That's really fun. All the members of the Chamber who have spoken have stressed that we are talking here about three issues: the implementation of the practical route, the legal regulation of the sheltered work and the abolition of the re-employment requirement. A number of Members have asked me to reflect on this once again. How exactly did that go? I made administrative agreements with the social partners, the VNG and the UWV to further improve the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement Act. We have, of course, always looked together with the spokesmen in recent years at how we can make improvements from the point of view of practice. The fact that we can now, for example, transmit the no-risk policy to employers for an indefinite period of time also helps enormously to provide jobs for an indefinite period of time. That is the kind of thing the Chamber has always wanted to do with me. I'd like to keep those administrative arrangements. I also notice that the Chamber understands that. She is quite equestrian in that, moreover, in the sense that one spokesperson says he is happier with one and that the other spokesperson also says very equestrian that he is happier with the other, which I can see very well. Administratively, we agreed that we would discuss these three measures in conjunction with each other. They are also a whole, one might say... to further improve the functioning of the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement Act and thus contribute to the inclusive labour market. In fact, the whole Chamber has also contributed to this. Everyone supports this inclusive labour market. It really doesn't matter whether you're old or young, white or black or with or without a limitation. I think that I have also answered the question of the PVV. Decentralisation is, of course, the leitmotiv under the Participation Act. The starting point of the Participation Act is to lead people with work capacity to work and provide tailor-made work. This customization can, of course, be offered by municipalities. If you have that in mind, and you really have it in your mind, if I may put it this way, the agreements we have made with our fellow governments and the social partners, it is, to say the least, extraordinary that more than a quarter of the municipalities do not offer sheltered work at all, that the number of municipalities that do not offer sheltered work has even increased from 19% to 27% between 2015 and 2016. Some of the Members have asked what I have done to stimulate the situation. It has also been argued from the Chamber that financial resources have been provided, a bonus on sheltered work. Implementation support has been taken forward. The extension of the no-riskpolis to the target-group sheltered work has been done. I have also put the emphasis on this many times in my administrative consultations. Then there are municipalities that simply do not offer sheltered work. They do not offer tailor-made solutions and thus deprive the most vulnerable group in the labour market of the opportunity to work. I say this with emphasis, 'payed to work', because you simply want to, at least, I think that is also the leitmotiv of actually the whole Chamber that if people can stop their own pants, with help of course, we really have to back that up. That's what's happening with this law now. Mrs Schouten asks what exactly is going on with these municipalities; I will, of course, appoint a number of members. Why don't these municipalities do it? That's what several members asked for. I am told that municipalities find the facilities unattractive because they have a large impact on the available budget. Municipalities find alternatives like daily spending more attractive. Municipalities also say that they already have a lot of things to do and that they have come to this only limitedly, but that they might be looking at this in the next year's editions. Some municipalities say that they find the assessment by the UWV complicated. Other municipalities say they can't find candidates at all. On the other hand, a large number of municipalities do make sheltered places, sometimes many sheltered places. I mention the municipalities of Leiden, Almere, The Hague, Breda, Den Bosch, Amsterdam, Oss and Apeldoorn. In short, it can be done. This led the cabinet to submit this trio of measures to the Chamber. First of all, I should like to comment on the amendments as they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u78	But not after Mrs Karabulut of the SP has posted an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u79	That was the administrative balance within the framework of the Participation Act, but has there been talk of a real alternative, namely to the infrastructure we already have and to the collective agreement SW? Why don't we make sure that people who need it can flow in there so we don't have to be complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mrs Karabulut knows that I think the infrastructure of the SW companies in our country is very good. I see that all the municipalities I have just mentioned, which are now making new sheltered work or have already done so, are using the vehicle social work company if I may put it this way. Many of these municipalities and labour market regions are now transforming social work companies in such a way that the people covered by the WSW keep their place in those social work companies, but that new sheltered work can also be implemented there and that reintegration over the broad target group can also get hands and feet there. You could call that the SW company of the 21st century. I notice that the transformation is now taking shape more and more, as Cedris tells us. The Court has made funds available for this purpose. The infrastructure of the SW companies therefore remains intact. I have heard from a number of Members that they think that social work companies are failing. This is by no means the case, according to practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u81	The Secretary of State speaks with two tongues. Excuse me, "double tongue," indeed. But that's two!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u82	If you speak with multiple tongues, you have Holy Spirit, I believe!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u83	We'll be back at Pentecost, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yes. That's getting a little complicated!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u85	But the Secretary of State has indeed opted for a death home construction. Social work companies are indeed doing their best and a whole number of municipalities are doing their best, but they are structurally under 300 million. At the same time, the Secretary of State is now trying to turn a blind eye to a new provision against poorer working conditions. Why is it not in line with practice in this respect? Why doesn't she just let people re-enter, in accordance with a decent collective agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u86	Just so we're clear and clear, this death home construction is not on the table. That's what you see in practice. The social work companies are simply continuing and are transforming. People who are working there now can keep their jobs there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u87	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u88	Whoa, whoa! First, the Secretary of State finishes her sentence. In addition, we agreed to do interruptions in two. Only in the case of exceptional circumstances do I allow you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u89	I agree with Mrs Karabulut that when people are working, they need an orderly collective agreement. The same applies to people with sheltered work. This can, of course, be done in the context of the municipal collective agreement. If the municipality is an employer, then people who are now going to work sheltered can be covered. If municipalities choose to place sheltered work elsewhere, people will be covered by this collective agreement. Of course, it is also possible that the social partners want to design a whole new collective agreement for sheltered work. That's really up to them. I note that a new collective agreement has been concluded for the people working in the SW. I note that two weeks ago I made EUR 10 million available for the retirement provision of the 'old' SW'ers. I note that if social partners want to agree a collective agreement for people who are going to work in this new sheltered setting, they are completely free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u90	I note that the Secretary of State is in the process of reshaping, but I also note that she is not actually telling the truth. After all, a death home construction was invented. There are 70,000 people who need to flow out and there is no new influx into the current SW construct. Contrary to the aim of this legislative proposal, namely clear regulations and fair work for fair pay, we now have A, B and C employees and some companies are incredibly difficult, with a deficit of 300 million. The Secretary of State is looking for a complicated way to accommodate the VVD and others who are facing worse working conditions. I think that's a shame. I find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u91	I really want to throw this far from me. The inspection report also shows that all municipalities that choose to have sheltered work carried out do so through the SW company. That infrastructure does not stop there. The House has invested EUR 30 million through the Christmas amendment in order to bring about the transformation into the 21st century. I note that in all labour market regions not only the municipalities but also the social partners say that they want to maintain the social work company tool, because they see how important it is for the infrastructure in their labour market region. That's just a fact, which I'm very pleased about, by the way. The ESC has also said that social work companies are essential for the future. Employers and employees both say that this instrument must remain upright. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u92	You would hardly believe it after our interrupting debate just now, but I have to go with Mrs Karabulut a little bit now. We received some kind of emergency letter from Cedris not so long ago indicating that most SW companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u93	There are only people who are still listening with us. I've heard that name a few times. Cedris is an interbranch association for social employment and reintegration. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u94	You understand perfectly well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u95	If we use words that people don't know at home, then we need to explain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u96	It's the umbrella of all social work companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u97	Even better!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u98	This umbrella has sent a letter stating that most social workers have counted on the low-income advantage and have also taken it into account in their multi-annual budget. They have now seen, among other things, that only part of the low-income benefit is due to them, which has now given them a problem. What did the Secretary of State do after she got this signal? Has she contacted the trade association about this with Cedris? Is she prepared to look with Cedris at the consequences of this and whether it is still possible to maintain the infrastructure if we really want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u99	We have, of course, with Cedris and with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, chairman of the Dutch Association of Municipalities, always looked again and again at what happens per year. I also promised the municipalities that I would look again every year to see if the outflow figures of the old WSW are consistent with our assumptions on the front. That's what we're gonna do. In the meantime, that low-income advantage came. That was, you might say, an extra resource for SW companies to keep their finances in order. During the Chamber's treatment of that low-income benefit, things were adjusted. It is now too complicated in technology, Mr President, to measure all this widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u100	I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u101	It is true that there was originally a gross amount of €2,000 per person, which could now be €1,000. You can approach that $1,000 in two ways. You can say: it wasn't in the original record, so it's extra money. You can also say, and that's what Cedris does, which I understand very well from Cedris: it was not in the original album, but we took it into account and now we actually have to subtract €1,000 per FTE. I stand by my outstretched hand, in the sense that I want to look again every year with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and on the basis of Cedris' figures. I therefore believe that you should always look from the cabinet to see if resources are needed to keep things going. The Chamber has quartered the 5 x 20 million. It's hardly been used. I have already said in our general consultation that, although it is usually customary for an under-exhaustment to flow back to the rich budget, I will now be very hard on the Minister of Finance to keep those resources available for sheltered work. I have listened carefully to the contribution of the Chamber. GroenLinks and other groups advocate making 5 x 20 million structural. I would ask your Chamber simply to look at the situation every year and whether anything should be done at all. Because last year's outflow turned out to be slightly higher than originally estimated, and so municipalities have had a little left over. I really want to try to give your Chamber an insight into the first half of 2016 for the budgetary treatment of SZW. Then we'll be able to look at how things are developing on the basis of those off-flow data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u102	I think that's a good commitment. My second question would also have been to start talking to the Social Work Services companies and the dome to see what the state of affairs is at the moment. My other point is this. The Secretary of State says, on the basis of last year's data, that there is something left, but that is, of course, at macro level. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether there are really very urgent bottlenecks at the level of the labour market region? This really gives us more insight into where the biggest problems are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u103	Through the overviews that Cedris can send us, we might be able to provide more insight into that. That does not mean that we really need to look at the history of some SW companies. Because the fact that some municipalities are adding up is, of course, not something that came into being in 2015, but something that already has a long history. I think we should look at the situation in that context too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u104	You just made a commitment to something in the spring. Is that the next thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u105	No, no, no. I made the commitment to do so, let me just stress that I want to make the cash-out figures for the first half of 2016 clear to the Chamber before the budgetary treatment of SZW. It's in the first week of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u106	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u107	That's exactly why I walked to the microphone. The Secretary of State rightly stated that she had already promised what I had asked for, namely not to let the money that is not made up of the first tranche of those five times 20 million flow back to the state treasury but to keep it available. She'll reconfirm that. As a result of the discussion with Cedris on how the assumptions at the time of entry into force of the law relate to the actual outflow figures, I asked whether she might try to match them with the Spring paper, at least. I asked her a moment ago if she could make it easier to understand, for example in the budget. I just heard the Secretary of State say so. Can I also understand that, if that makes sense in the run-up to the budget shows that there is a difference, the Secretary of State already wants to show a start on a solution in that budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u108	First things first. I'm gonna get some insight first. When the cabinet provides insight, it is always neat when it tells what one could do with that insight, I say very carefully, because of course the Chamber has the budget right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u109	You wanted to start by dealing with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u110	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I have seen three amendments so far. Two of them, on the part of Mrs Karabulut and Mr Heerma/Mrs Schouten, deal with the evaluation of both parts. I would like to ask the authors the following, and perhaps they will be able to comment on this in their second term; I have also listened carefully to the debate. Both amendments call for an evaluation of both instruments to be carried out within two years of their entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u111	Let me make sure that we are all talking about the same thing: we are talking about the amendments to the documents. 9 and 11. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u112	I think so, Mr. Chairman. Yes. It would be good to see if we could do all this in one smooth move in 2019. After all, the evaluation period of the Participation Act as such is then. We could add very specifically to this the elements that are being appointed here. This means that we are not just before 2019 but in 2019. I don't know what the proposers think of that. They can say that in second term and then I respond again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr Heerma seems to be able to do it already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u114	Very specific. The amendment asks: within two years. That also touches a bit on the interruption debate with the VVD just in the first term. In concrete terms, the Secretary of State's request would be to make "within two years," which I believe means by the end of 2018 "in 2019."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u116	We're gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u117	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u118	We are already at the negotiating stage, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u119	Well, you do have something dynamic, so we're all doing our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u120	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u121	That means that if we can get out of it, I can leave the assessment of both amendments to the Chamber. The third amendment is about... let's see. Where do I put it? That was an amendment by Mrs Karabulut. That was about what she wanted, I know from my mind I can't find the text so quickly that at...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u122	I have a copy for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u123	Yeah, I'd love to. Don't blame me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u124	I think it is about the amendment to item No. 10, which says: "Opening up the practical route means that people by means of a wage value measurement at the workplace..."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yes, it is. Look, Mrs Karabulut says: I really want to monitor so closely that the target group in the register is not getting too big; with the practical route I am just afraid of that. We have had pilots and it showed that the target group is not or hardly stretched. I have just promised, also on the basis of Mrs Karabulut's amendment, that I want to keep a very close eye on things. I am therefore pleased that the Chamber also considers it essential to monitor all those parts. I very much agree with the Chamber. In addition, Mrs Karabulut would very much like to see all those who use the practical route reviewed to see whether they actually have a labour restriction. I do not think that is in line with the philosophy of the practical route, if I may put it that way. A person who has been tested in practice, who has been very carefully examined and who cannot earn a minimum wage on his own in practice, should then again pass an expert or doctor. You create some sort of U-turn, some sort of inspection construction. That's actually nothing new under the sun, because we already had that inspection construction. On the contrary, we want to ensure that we can direct people to the target group register from the point of view of practice. I therefore advise against this amendment, on the understanding that, together with Mrs Karabulut, I want to keep a very close eye on the matter. Her concern is mine, too. It can't be that way. I have listened to other spokesmen very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u126	I do not want to go back to the current situation, because it clearly does not work very well. But I do want labour restrictions to be objectively tested. That's what it was all about. I don't understand why you couldn't let an expert do that and why that would bring so many complicated things. Why shouldn't you make that judgment difficult from the point of view of practice? It's all one government, so I really don't understand why this isn't possible. Is this hampered by bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u127	No, no, no. In practice, of course, the assessment of wages also looks at how an employee is involved. Of course, these types of facets also play a role in the determination of wages. If it turns out that someone has a wage value above 100% of the minimum wage, it is obvious that that person cannot use the practical route. The essence of the pilot is that you look at whether someone in their workplace can earn the legal minimum wage. If that is not the case, the person will receive wage costs subsidies. The pilot shows that there is hardly any difference when you look at that person at the end of the ride at the UWV. That is why, after receiving the research in those pilots, I agreed to open the practical route now. But again, I'll keep monitoring it. However, I am not in favour of putting another inspection against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u128	At least it's a good thing we're going to monitor it very closely. That's profit. Can we understand next year how it has developed in the coming year? I continue to struggle with the fact that it is now decided on the basis of a snapshot whether or not someone has a disability. That's exactly what we have experts for. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u129	This is starting to look a little like your second term. Do you have another question for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u130	How can we not use these experts in the municipalities? Why this bureaucratic bump?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u131	It is not a bureaucratic bump, because it turns out that these people have the same background in terms of labour barriers and opportunities and personal characteristics. The wage value of the two groups is also the same, i.e. around 55%. I therefore advise against the amendment. I am not just doing this to prevent bureaucracy, but also because I think it is important to move into the people in question. For those people, it is, of course, bad that they first walked the practical route and then had to be kept under review by someone else. I have therefore dealt with all the amendments. I would also like to comment on a number of other issues that have been raised. All spokesmen quoted the letter from Cedris, the umbrella above all SW companies. I see the warden sitting in the bleachers. Cedris makes the suggestion that sheltered work can also be offered temporarily. Of course, sheltered work can already be used as a temporary instrument, even as a stepping-up or fallback with a view to a regular job, with the requirement that there is always an employment relationship. This may also be a temporary employment. That's clear. Afterwards, you can see if someone can move on to a regular job, for example a guarantee job, or that they can stay in the SW company. I therefore agree with Cedris that sheltered work can also be offered temporarily, because I think it is important that people who can work exclusively sheltered should also be given perspective. If that is possible, it is fine, but a structural provision can sometimes also be appropriate. I therefore believe that I have answered Mrs Nijkerken's question. They also asked me if I would be willing to look at the client's potential for development. Certainly, because if the wage value develops, it may be a reason to seek new advice sheltered work from the UWV to determine whether sheltered work is still needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u132	Do I understand the Secretary of State as follows? With the UVW she is going to look at whether the advice given by the UWV shows that someone needs sheltered work, even though the development perspective is being looked at, so that we do not miss something and we allow people to walk around unnecessarily long with a stamp on the forehead, which I do not think is the intention. In the end, we all want that, if people have that perspective, to be worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u133	I'd certainly like to talk to the UWV about that, because you're giving everyone that perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u134	I think this also affects the suggestion in Cedris' letter. Is the Secretary of State also in consultation with Cedris about this? At what time will we be told by the Secretary of State what possibilities there are to fill it in temporarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u135	Of course I would like to consult with Cedris, but I have not noticed for nothing that this temporaryity can already be dealt with now. So I'd like to see if we can colour that further, but it's really not that this law is prohibitive at that point. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u136	It is good to hear that, otherwise we would have to make amendments here on the spot. I would therefore like to give a positive indication of the commitment. What time do we get this back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u137	I would be happy to do this for the budget. That might be a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u138	Is this also the room that the Secretary of State offers to the municipalities for this to be gradual, in the light of what Cedris proposes and in the light of the criticism of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u139	No. I think I need to be crystal clear about this. The sheltered work can already be used as a temporary instrument.I have just said that as well as as a stepping-up for people or as a fallback if someone is not doing so well. And, just to be clear, the requirement is always that there should be an employment relationship. That employment can be temporary now and also in the future. Afterwards, you should always see if someone can flow to a regular job or to a guarantee job or if someone just needs that sheltered setting. So that temporaryity is already in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u140	That is correct, but we want this bill to include this temporaryity and that this possibility can be used by municipalities, precisely because people who do sheltered work can sometimes grow and sometimes be placed in a different way. So it's important that that space is there in the new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u141	I think there is no misunderstanding about that. I just promised I'd go into conclave with Cedris on this one more time. We should not have any noise on the line at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u142	In conclave under the umbrella.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u143	I like that one, actually. I hope it doesn't rain very hard, by the way. I have already touched on the issue of finance, also in connection with the interruptions. I have already said that I am giving more insight into the budgetary procedure. Mrs Voortman and Mrs Karabulut have asked about the distribution by country. The distribution is linked to the distribution of financial resources among the municipalities. That distribution is based on the influx into the WSW and the Wajong before 2015. I'm going to work this out in a ministerial arrangement. I expect that distribution will be well in line with the need. That will prove to be the case in practice. We have just agreed that if the amendments are adopted, we will monitor the practice very closely. That is what we will do. I have already addressed the question of the Labour Party and the Christian Union how I now look at the financial situation of SW companies. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan asked if I could explain when there is wage-setting work. Indeed, the main difference between sheltered work and day-to-day spending is that sheltered work is wage-forming work and not day-to-day spending. The target group of sheltered work consists of persons with working capacity who have employment opportunities only in a sheltered environment, under adapted conditions. Persons can perform wage-forming work if they have work capacity. That makes sense. This is the case if a person can perform a job in a work organisation, has basic employee skills, can work one hour at a time and is taxable four hours a day. Those are the criteria that are being used. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan asked if I can confirm that municipalities themselves are allowed to design sheltered work. Yeah, I can confirm that. This bill regulates that municipalities have to realize sheltered work places. However, the design and organisation remain a policy freedom of the municipalities, but of course within the framework of the Participation Act and the Regulation. Mr Heerma asked if I could explain the answer on the route of practice for sheltered work. That is also Mrs Koşer Kaya's question. Let me make it quite clear that during the AA, I undertook to carry out research on this subject. In the note relating to the report, I indicated the difference between the situation of sheltered work and that of the practical route, of guarantee jobs. I would like to carry out an investigation into this, and I have promised that to Mrs Koşer Kaya, and so I am doing so, and I am not going to anticipate it now. Mrs Voortman asked: how do we get to 30,000 places instead of, for example, 40,000? A third of the total number of 90,000 people in the WSW can be posted. A third can work on site and a third really needs a shelter. That number is also included in the social agreement. That is what we have based on. Mrs Schouten asked what I can do to get sheltered work done by regular employers. Can I support municipalities in this? What possibilities are there? The fact that these persons can only work in a sheltered environment does not mean that this must necessarily be done under the roof of a SW company. Municipalities can decide for themselves where to realize these workplaces. If regular employers are able to set up these sheltered conditions properly, it can, of course, also take shape there. If I can help on the basis of best practice, I will certainly not let that happen. Of course, the structural no-riskpolis can also help with this. Ms Schouten also asked whether the College was obliged to follow the advice protected by the UWV. Yes, the advice of the UWV to the college on sheltered work is a legal advisory task. In principle, the College always follows this opinion. Only if the college can demonstrate that the opinion has been drawn up in an inadequate manner can it deviate from this, but of course you have the entire legal procedure. In principle, the College always follows the opinion. What do we do if the number of sheltered workshops in a municipality has been achieved for the relevant year disc and someone comes knocking? That is also a question from Mrs Schouten. Is this person gonna be on a waiting list? If more positive advice is given in one year than the number required by municipalities in one year, waiting lists may indeed arise. Municipalities are not obliged to create more places. However, I think it is reasonable that the College should then endeavour to offer priority shelter to those with the positive opinion in the following year. Municipalities can of course always choose to offer more people a sheltered place. It's up to the city council to decide. If the city council does not do so, the municipality must offer an alternative facility until a shelter is available. This is also what the municipality should lay down in the regulation it offers. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked a question about the Tilburg alternative. I say in all honesty that I think Tilburg is very active in offering perspective to the vulnerable group. I also know the alderman in that context, but I find it unacceptable, as the alderman also knows from me, that a provision as sheltered work is not offered in advance by a municipality. In this way Tilburg does not offer tailor-made work to those persons who would normally be eligible for sheltered work. The inspection notes that most of the alternatives offered by municipalities, including Tilburg, are alternatives without employment. This happens in 81% of cases. I do not think that is good for those who do have work capacity and can work sheltered, because those people must also be able to have a job with an orderly income. Mrs Karabulut asked how people are informed about applying for sheltered work. Together with the parties, so the National Client Council, the VNG, the UWV and the FNV Wajong Group, we are going to give the information really good shape. I spoke to the FNV-Wajongers about this this afternoon. They also have very firm ideas about this. We're going to see what channels we can best reach people. I have already made a great commitment to conclave on this subject with special education and practical education, because that is, of course, where the new information comes from, as you might say, from potential employees for the new sheltered work. They must be properly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u144	That's good, but that law has to go in real fast. Can we understand the contours on this point for the budget debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u145	I'm doing the best I can, but that's short notice. Of course, I would very much like to make a very good plan with the institutions, with the tastemakers I mentioned earlier. I'll try to send the contours, some kind of charcoal sketch, to the Chamber, but that can't really be very minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u146	No, I understand. We can do that next year, beginning next year. First quarter next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u147	Yeah, I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u148	Okay. Can the way in which waiting lists will be dealt with and the rights and duties of people be included? The Secretary of State says it has to come back in the regulation and that people should be offered an alternative. I believe that the law should also provide a basis for the municipalities or at least clarification from the Secretary of State on the need for such an understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u149	The fact that we are having this debate says a lot. Mrs Karabulut is not the only one who has drawn attention to this. I will certainly draw attention to this in my collection letter. We expect all municipal councils not only to beat the regulation, but also to really indicate in that regulation what is happening to people who have a positive opinion from the UWV, but who are not immediately able to get into such a place. 'Cause that's just what you owe those people. After all, they're your citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u150	The Secretary of State just said a little bit of what I'm now calling the headline sketch for the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u151	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I said that I really want to try to provide the contours of information for this new legislation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u152	For the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u153	... for the budget and that we will, of course, give it more weight in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u154	My question would be: is that before or after 15 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u155	Before March 15th, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u156	I just wanted to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u157	Good, because after March 15th, I'm gonna be a missionary and I just want to give this missionary form and content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u158	I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u159	That is quite right. I have now reached the practical route. That's the second part of tonight. There's less to be said about that. Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union asked a somewhat technical but relevant question. She asked: is the premium discount only applicable to new employment? The answer to that question is yes, because the bonus discount for jobs is only applicable to people who belong to the target group before they are recruited. This does not therefore apply to people with pre-existing service relationships. In the practical route "It's good to add that "Wage value measurement' can already take place before a contract is entered into, for example in the case of a test placement. In practice, you see very often that people get a test placement and then the wage value is determined and then the employment is taken up. Then an employer can also get the bonus discount. As I said in my introduction, I am very grateful to the Chamber for the urgency of dealing with this bill. I would also like to ask, if I may, with the hat in hand, the First Chamber to deal with this bill as a matter of urgency, because then things could be in the Official Journal on 1 January. And then we can indeed send the bonus discount to employers who put people on the payroll again. The tax authorities can only do this once a year, otherwise we will have to wait a year. I'd hate to hear that myself. So I am doing my utmost to get this bill passed across the street as soon as possible. GroenLinks and the Christian Union asked whether it was real before 1 January. I am therefore doing my utmost and hope that the Chamber will vote next week. Of course, that helps a lot. Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party has made the suggestion to me to adjust if the practical route does not work out properly. Of course, we have just talked about this. We are also going to closely monitor the practical route. If this monitoring were to show that the people who intend to make the job deal do not end up on those guarantee jobs... I have to say that if the people we did not aim for end up in guarantee jobs, I agree with Mr Kerstens that the numbers of jobs should be taken into account. That is what Mr Kerstens says. It is, of course, up to a new cabinet to look at this again with the social partners and to make new arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mr. Kerstens, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u161	When I was on my way, the Secretary of State added one last sentence. In fact, I was concerned that the practical route would be somewhat different from what we might expect from the initial tests. If a few more people get a place, that's very nice for those people, but maybe less nice for the people in the target register. The intention of the cabinet is therefore to discuss this with the social partners and the parties concerned. At the time, the agreement was made on 125.000 places about a possible increase in that number. I think I understood the Secretary of State quite well that she had just promised this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u162	Exactly. It is not for nothing that I go into conclave with the partners in the Work Room every time and every time I look at how things are going. If the Chamber were to adopt the amendments which aim to ensure that there is very close monitoring, I might say a little over my own grave that I assume that, in 2019, another cabinet will look again with the social partners at the exact nature of the flag and what that means for the number of guarantee jobs. I've come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u163	I don't see anyone jumping up. Yes, Mr De Graaf!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u164	I thought I'd run for a while. I asked questions about the alderman in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u165	They were answered, but then you were on your phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u166	Yes, there was something in between; we have a busy day at the PVV. Okay, fine, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u167	Does the Chamber need a second term? That's the case. Does the Chamber need a suspension prior to that second term? No. I am happy to be the first to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I'll be quick. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. I am glad that she has given some further details on the definition of 'wage-making work' in relation to daily spending. I had already asked questions about this in the written round. It's just hard for a layman to describe. I welcome the clarification. I am also pleased with the firm commitment that I call it; the President has not noted it as such, so I hope he does now hope that the Secretary of State will at least deal with UWV to see how we can also consider the potential development perspective of people in the opinion on sheltered work. We don't want to keep people in arrangements if we don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u169	I also asked the VVD in the first term: that includes the suggestion about Cedris' temporaryity in the letter yesterday, which the Secretary of State also says to talk about? So that is in line with what the VVD Group is asking here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u170	I've just been informed by the Secretary of State that temporaryity is already possible. Apparently, there's been a misunderstanding at the dome or the umbrella, as we just called it. What matters to me is that UWV doesn't just say in the opinion: shelter yes/no. If there is a yes, the initial assessment should also indicate whether there is a development perspective. That is something that is not being considered at the moment, but which I do like to draw attention to. The Secretary of State has agreed to discuss this with UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u171	But that also makes the obligation temporary, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u172	That could be... At the moment when there is a development perspective, you might be able to install a momentum to see if the advice "safe work" still applies. That is why I am very curious about the consultation that the Secretary of State is going to have with UWV on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u173	As I said before, the negotiations have begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. There would be no negotiation during a debate in the Chamber. I do not think that would appeal to this Vice-President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first-term response. In my first term, I have already indicated that from a administrative point of view I appreciate what has been achieved. From the division has been chosen to do both rather than both. It remains that I have trouble with that duty of sheltered work. I think it is too early and I find it at odds with the idea of decentralisation. That is why I tabled that amendment with Mrs Schouten for that evaluation. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the kindness of that amendment. Also in response to the questions of the colleague of the VVD, I understand that it is good to look at the most useful wording of the moment: "within two years" or "in 2019. That's what we're gonna do. There is therefore a proposal which I have heard from someone tonight that there is probably a majority in the Chamber, but not entirely heartfelt. That will also apply to my party, and that is what I am going to advise my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u175	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities of the Kingdom receive structural funds for the financing of sheltered workplaces;]] [[Whereas the resources made available by the Government for the bonus are temporary, i.e. until 2020;]] [[noting that municipalities are questioning whether structural funds are sufficient in the longer term, especially after the bonus is lost;]] [[invites the Government, in the review of the relevant articles of the Participation Act in 2019, to also report whether the available resources and costs per shelter match, whether the total available resources are adequate and what is the expected development of the costs of performing sheltered work as referred to in Article 10b, and thereafter to report annually to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities will be required to set up sheltered areas in the future;]] [[Whereas this is based on 30,000 new sheltered areas, and municipalities receive funding for that number;]] [[Whereas it may take more than 30,000 sheltered places to provide a workplace for all people unable to work with a regular employer;]] [[calls on the government to closely monitor the need for sheltered workplaces, to check whether people are not rejected because municipalities have fulfilled their obligation, and to report annually to the Chamber or 30 000 places are sufficient to meet the needs of both municipalities and the people concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34578-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34578-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u176	Mr. Chairman. No motions on the part of the PVV, but a few brief comments. The cabinet provides for a reduction of 5,000 WSWs per year. This means that it will be about ready in 2015. The idea we have put forward here about a death home construction and our fear of that has not been taken away by the Secretary of State, and we regret that. The number of jobs protected is therefore decreasing. I also have the feeling that this law has to be passed by the Chamber just before the elections, and that is why it has now been submitted to us. That's gonna keep gnawing. And of course, I also said in the first term that the PVV wants to help the people. Real jobs are, of course, the best for this, and they come from a healthy economy. But what did the Cabinet do? Several reports show that the cabinet has withdrawn too much money, 20 to 30 billion, from the economy and that the cabinet has made too many people unnecessarily unemployed. As a result, it has also put too many people working in the WSW in difficulty because those people were taken away from their jobs. So the cabinet has unnecessarily trampled it all. We continue to have difficulty with that. The increase in costs which may result from this and which the municipalities pass on to taxpayers remains unclear. We want to help those people, too. We are doing so, despite the fact that the cabinet has created this chaos. I'm going to think about it very carefully, but after that I'll most likely give a positive advice. But I haven't figured it out yet. Baldewsingh's story I'm gonna leave for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u177	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I think it is a good thing that we have dealt with the bill quickly, because there are still some challenges for the sw. In this context, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to send us the first quarter's outflow figures. I still think that there is some kind of noise or light between the figures on the resources that the Ministry says will be available for the sw and what I hear from, for example, the dome of the sw. Can the Secretary of State, in the letter she is going to send us for the budget, give us an overview of the resources available and explain why she believes they are sufficient? Finally, I would like to ask her to state what assumptions she has taken into account. This would give us a little more clarity in this discussion, a discussion that we can continue in the budget debate. The Secretary of State is ambitious, because she says she will take care of it all before 1 January. My question was, what if? What if it doesn't work? Nor do I assume that it will not happen, but I read in the documents, if I am right, that there may still be some implementing technical obstacles to the Tax Administration in particular. Does that mean there's gonna be a kink in the cable if we don't make it? I am thinking in particular of the various contributions that must be made available and the problems that may arise from the failure of the Tax Administration. I hope this will not happen, of course, but I would like to know from the Secretary of State what she would do if this were to happen. Finally, a question about the distribution of people. Suppose someone lives in a municipality that has realized their number of sheltered workshops, but is entitled to a place. The Secretary of State has indicated that that person will be on a waiting list and that he must be given a place the following year. How can he force that? Is the Secretary of State gonna insist on that? What am I supposed to do with that? In my example, it is only one person, but when it comes to ten or twenty people, it will be quite a job for that municipality. But that person does have an indication! How's the Secretary of State gonna take care of that? This bill is linked to two thoughts. In the first period, I have already indicated that we consider the route of practice to be extremely desirable and that it is compulsory for us to put a bit of a hole in our throats. All in all, I think it is a balanced proposal that we should support. I will therefore present it with a positive opinion to my group. However, this is part of the evaluation exercise. We shall therefore amend the amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for her answers, in particular for the commitment she has made to provide more insight into how actual figures relating to the drop-out from social services relate to the assumptions on the entry into force of the law. This insight is an answer to the question of whether the financial situation is not so bad or not. In my first term, I indicated that I will certainly discuss this in the budget debate. That insight that the Secretary of State is going to provide, of course, helps. I heard her make another commitment, namely the following. Should the evaluation on the practical route show that, contrary to what is expected and contrary to what has been demonstrated by the tests so far, more people would still be on a job which would not otherwise have been on the target register, the Secretary of State also considers that consultation with the social partners, with trade unions and employers, should take place at that time on the number of 125,000 guarantee jobs. That's what's agreed with those parties. If the evaluation, which Mrs Karabulut has also asked for, shows that many other people are getting on a job through the practical route, this is a reason for consultation. That's going to be about possibly raising the 125,000. As I said, the Labour Party welcomes the bill we discussed tonight. As far as I am concerned, this is a further step towards creating more paid jobs for people to whom the labour market is very remote. To oblige municipalities to shape sheltered work, not against a benefit but with a decent wage, helps. The removal of all kinds of barriers by making the practical route possible also helps. That's good news for the people for whom the Participation Act is meant, people who I already said at the beginning of my contribution, just like you and I would like to move forward with and through their work in their lives, but need some help for that, help we like to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions we have asked. On the practical route, I have already said that we are very pleased with it. That is a very good step to ensure that people get real perspective, a job opportunity. That is what these people are waiting for, and that is very important. I also welcome the clear commitment to a study of the practical route when it comes to sheltered work. However, the protective obligation is hard on the stomach. At the same time, however, I can see that steps will have to be taken. In the light of a number of points which I will mention and which I will take with me, I will discuss this with my group and finally consider them. The first point is that we look closely at the development perspective, so that people do not stay in one situation, but we always look at whether there are opportunities for people who are eligible for sheltered work. The second point is that temporaryity and customization are still possible in the new law. The third is also very important to me, namely that an intermediate step and its refinement, presented by Cedris in this case, should be discussed and completed further. That, too, is an important step. I will take all these points with me and then take them into account with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u180	Finally, I should like to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr. Chairman. Finance and the very gross cuts on the people with the lowest incomes and their jobs remain a major problem. That's what you're seeing in this debate. The Secretary of State has now said that she is going to tell us about the discussion about structural deficits she is having with the trade association and the municipalities. I hope that the Secretary of State, at least for this section, sheltered work, will provide the money by, among other things, making the bonus for sheltered work structural. This is also necessary if the Secretary of State and the ruling parties believe that they want to give people a real job with real money and a living wage. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultation with municipalities in order to establish a collective agreement for employee sheltered work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34578-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u182	I still don't understand why a professional, a doctor or an expert can't determine the work restrictions for the practical route. That determination can be linked to practice, all the more so because we are one government. I would like to turn this around: can the Secretary of State guarantee us that there will be no influx of people without work restrictions? And if you enter that register via the practical route, is it possible to refuse it? I'd like to get a reaction to that. We have tabled two amendments. One is a substantive amendment, which unfortunately the Secretary of State has not recommended. That is what we are going to talk about in the future. The other amendment should provide an insight into the development. The Secretary of State has embraced that. That's something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u183	I have a question about the second amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u184	What number are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u185	The amendment in part No. 11. Mrs Schouten and I have also tabled an amendment for an evaluation, but our motivation is different. We have concerns about other parts of the law, but the amendments are also very similar, because they want to carry out an evaluation. Perhaps we could look together to see whether we can evaluate both parts through one amendment. Then there will be both your concerns and our concerns in the amendment and there will be a joint evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u186	Yeah, that's possible when it's just about factual insight. Then I will distance myself from your political interpretation of sheltered work and vice versa you will also distance yourself from mine. Then it is purely a question of evaluating and understanding the development of the practice of sheltered work and the practical route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u187	Did I understand correctly that the State Secretary's opinion would remain positive if the amendments were to be put together in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u188	If that makes life easier for everyone, and if it makes it work for the people, we'll just do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u189	The votes will probably take place next week. Until then, we can see if we can come to an amended amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u190	I am merely trying to verify whether I had understood correctly that the State Secretary's opinion had already been given and would go in that direction, but we will hear it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u191	The Secretary of State had not yet answered one question: is it going to ensure that when counting the results of the Jobs Agreement for 2017 the current existing jobs are not counted through the SW companies? If so, how? It really has to be about understanding new jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u192	Thank you. The Secretary of State may reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u193	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Members of your Chamber once again for their contributions. If it's all right with you, I'm gonna go check on the members. Then I shall end up with the motions as well. For the record, it is important to say once again that I have taken good note of the three amendments. On two amendments, I said that I would be pleased if we could implement them in 2019. I just heard in the Court's second term that the two amendments could perhaps be put together, which I very much welcome. If the substance of that one amendment is in line with what is before it, then I can leave the opinion on that amendment to the House. Mrs Nijkerken stressed once again that she was pleased that I was going to discuss with the UWV whether we could give that development perspective a place somewhere. For the record, I have also listened to the little debate between Mr Heerma and Mrs Nijkerken. It must be clear that if this bill is adopted, the obligation for municipalities to make sheltered work is not temporary. That obligation remains enshrined in the law. The next item is Cedris's move: can places in the sheltered work also be temporary? I said I wanted to discuss that further with Cedris, but it's possible in principle. Let's take that noise off the line as far as it's formed, because that's what that temporality was about. I listened very carefully to Mr Heerma. I shall look into how the amendment will be implemented over the next few days. I have also listened carefully to what Mr Heerma will present to his group. I have faith in that. Mrs Voortman has tabled two motions. In the motion in part No. 12 the Government is invited to report, at the time of the evaluation, whether the available resources and costs per shelter are agreed, whether the total resources available are sufficient and what is the expected development of the costs of performing sheltered work as referred to in Article 10b, and to report annually thereafter to the House of Representatives. I find this passable, if I may put it that way. If the amendment we have just mentioned is adopted, we are already going to have a good understanding of it. It is of course good to look at the finances in 2019. Therefore, I do not find it strange if a subsequent cabinet or cabinet provides an annual insight into how the situation is developing. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u194	Technically, you can take over the motion, if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u195	I want to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u196	I have been able to do so since the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, in particular Rule 66. Are there any members opposed to the Secretary of State taking over this motion? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u197	The motion in part No. 13 asks me to report annually to the Chamber whether the 30,000 places are adequate. I find that complicated. I have just said that I am, of course, willing to monitor the need for sheltered work and to inform the Chamber about it, but I do not share the view that more than 30,000 sheltered areas would be needed in the structural situation. We've provided cover for 30,000 places. On that basis, I must discourage the motion. Of course, the municipalities are free to make more than 30,000 places, but that is not the purpose of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u198	I don't think Mrs. Voortman would agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u199	I heard the Secretary of State say she's gonna monitor the need for shelters anyway. After that remark, I think it would be best to withdraw the motion. I was thinking about holding the motion, but then we'll have whole discussions about what our expectations are. We can also wait and see what the monitoring shows, so I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u200	Since the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Voortman (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u201	Fine, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr De Graaf. I do not know whether Mr De Graaf was in the Chamber when I answered Mrs Karabulut's question during my first term, and I do not think it was wrong to stress that SW companies are not going to lose out and that they are really jobs in these SW companies, because that is precisely what we are fighting for. On the contrary, we want people in an SW company to be able to work properly with full pay and, as far as I am concerned, Mrs Karabulut, also under collective agreement. I'll get to that in a minute. I really want to underline once again that in the SW companies people are just working. WSWs don't get fired. That frame is just out of the question. I'd like to put that down one more time. Then I'll come to Mrs. Schouten. She likes the idea of a letter coming. It would also like to have a good overview of the resources now available and of the way in which Cedris sees it. I'll take both of those cases into the letter. What if, unexpectedly, January 1st doesn't work? Of course, all the instruments that are at stake will be just as effective as from 1 February or 1 March. I am pleased to say once again that the no-risk policy is therefore on the agenda for an indefinite period, so that these people can also get a contract for an indefinite period of time, without safeguarding employers, whoever they are, the municipalities or regular employers, from the risk of payment of wages in the event of illness. That's very funny. But the only point of attention is and will remain that premium discount. I just went into that. I want it to be clear in all honesty and clarity that, if we do not make it to 1 January, the tax discount can only be applied on 1 January 2018. If 1 January doesn't work, I'd like to try again with the Tax Administration if we can make it 1 July 2017, but I know how incredibly complicated that is for the Tax Administration. So I dare not make any promises about it, in no way. But I'd like to try, if we don't make it to January 1st. I see that's how I get to play it with Mrs. Schouten. Mrs Schouten's final question is what we do with people who are on the waiting list and who have an indication. I'm assuming municipalities are giving these people a place in order. If that's not possible within the yearbook on which those people are on the waiting list, it has to be in the next year. I did not say for nothing that I am going to recommend all the municipal councils in my collection letter to look very closely at the regulation, precisely on that point. Because of course you must also offer perspective to those who do have an indication and therefore simply have to be able to work sheltered. If that place is not there immediately, one must have a perspective that it will come as soon as possible. Mr Kerstens underlined once again how important it is for us to make clear how the first half of 2016 took place in terms of developments in SW companies for the budget treatment. Mrs Koşer Kaya has indicated that she welcomes the development perspective and that she also likes the fact that I have promised the research on the practical route. Mrs Karabulut said that she too found it pleasurable to have that insight before the budget debate. She has stressed once again that she wants the bonus that is now on the table for five years to become structural. I said in the first term that we are going to look again and again at the financial situation. I would like to stress once again for the Acts how can I say that as firmly as possible? It is now time for municipalities to make use of this bonus, because until now that amount has in no way been exhausted. So let us first make sure that the 100 million is actually used by the municipalities. So far, that leaves a lot to be desired. So I do not think we need to think about whether this bonus should be structural if municipalities do not even call on this incidental amount. Mrs Koşer Kaya's motion calls on the government to enter into consultation with municipalities in order to reach a collective agreement. It's a bit of a question about the familiar road. With this operative part, I must advise against the motion because it is not up to a cabinet to reach a collective agreement, but I think that through this debate we implicitly call on employers and employees to simply get back together very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u202	I assume you do not want to ask about Mrs Karabulut's motion, Mrs Koşer Kaya. Shall we then conclude this motion first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u203	I understand that my name comes to the Secretary of State, but it's Mrs Karabulut's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u204	Oh, yes, Mrs. Karabulut. So for the Acts, don't blame me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u205	We kind of look alike, too, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u206	I do not know whether this is the same political assessment by both of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u207	Some people would say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u208	You both start with a "K," but I think that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u209	Doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u210	I'll start with a K, too, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u211	So, we're just gonna finish this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u212	We all look a little alike, don't we? Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says: I see something in the spirit, but I think the motion is a little too definite? If so, what is the objection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u213	The objection is that the cabinet has no position in establishing this collective agreement. In this debate we have exchanged well that people who are going to work sheltered must have good working conditions. They are entitled to at least the statutory minimum wage. If they work with an employer, this includes a collective agreement. It is worth noting that we consider this to be very important. If the shoe fits, put it on. We do not need a motion for that, because I have no formal position, and so do the Chamber, but in material terms I think we have said enough about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u214	I don't think so, because I'm gonna say something about it. The Secretary of State is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u215	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u216	The Secretary of State is system responsible. It must make the funds available. I was actually more looking for the answer to the question of whether it is the operative part. I am concerned that the Secretary of State should enter into consultations with a view to encouraging them, and perhaps she will hear what obstacles there are. I know it will not be the Secretary of State who concludes the collective agreement. I was just looking for the answer to the question as to whether another wording could give a positive opinion, but it seems to me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u217	No, no. And I've said what I've said. Let's see what's left of me. Mrs Karabulut would continue to find it very pleasurable that the professional determines a labour restriction. I think I have said enough about this in my first term. The last point that Mrs Karabulut had made in the first place and which I had not yet responded to was: is it about new jobs when it comes to the 125,000, or are it places where people can also work who are seconded from the SW company? The latter is indeed the case. We have made good agreements on these criteria. That can't be misunderstood either. That's the answer to that question. That's how I got to the end of my second term. I thank the members of your Chamber and you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you very much. I don't see any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-8.u219	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply and the members for their input. I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions.
