ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. We know the VVD as a party that advocates a smaller government. We also see this in the VVD narrow section of the cabinet. Society sometimes pays a high price for this. There is a need for a thorough knowledge of important dossiers, particularly on I and M. A real brain drain took place in the department. The solution is to hire heavyweights in the absence of their own officials who can operate at that level. There's often a hot price tag on that. In this case, that applies to Mr Hillen. A top prize has been paid for it, while external hire should also be covered or reported under the beaming standard; that is what the Minister agrees with GroenLinks. This report has been successful a number of times, but at least one failed. So we would like to know why the beaming standard has been exceeded and why this has not been included in the ministerial annual report. We would also like to know whether there are more of these standards in the department. I know that this has certainly been the case with air traffic control in the past. There was someone on the payroll who deserved above the norm. We would like to know if the Minister recognizes the image of the erosion of knowledge. The report of the General Court states that 24% of what is on top staff is hired externally. That seems to us on the high side. So the Hilling case is a symptom of a broader problem in the department. We would therefore like answers from the Minister on the specific case, and we would also like to know what it is going to do to prevent the erosion of general knowledge, especially at Rijkswaterstaat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. As we often only enter Question Time during the sitting, I have not been able to personally congratulate the President on her new position. I will not make it any more difficult for her to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs Van Tongeren asked me how I looked at salaries above the beaming standard, how that decision was made in this case and why it was not reported. I also believe that people should simply be hired under the beaming standard. That's state-of-the-art policy. There is a possibility to deviate. That has to be specifically reported for the reason. That's what happened here. It was the wish of Rijkswaterstaat, the province of Groningen and the municipality of Groningen to attract a strong, independent project leader. The wish was strong for Mr Hillen to do so. At the time it was also indicated that he would be hired and that he would be about €5 to €10 per hour above the beaming standard. This was reported in the 2011 and 2012 reports. Abusively, that did not happen in 2013. That's the year it's been reconsidered. Then the discussion about the beaming standard started even more and it was said in the project team that there was a need to renegotiate. In 2013, Mr Hillen was also renegotiated. That's when it went below the €225. This should have been mentioned in the report for the first five months, but such a report is always produced at the end of the year and it has not happened wrongly. It has not been delivered to our ministry by Rijkswaterstaat and we have not included it in our annual report. I'm sorry about that, because I should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Then I would like to know whether there has been an attempt to stay just below the beaming standard. Apparently, those signals reach me, at least, there has been consultation with municipalities and the county to get the expenses going up and the daily allowance down so that the net would fit. Is there any correspondence on that? Have any agreements been made to get the fare so it just fell under? The minister said we were looking for someone who was independent. However, this person was also the director of Airport Eelde during the same period; in any case, these functions overlapd over a period of time. How independent are you if you also have a job on another, very heavy file in that region? The more general question: is this not a symptom of an underlying problem, namely the great erosion of knowledge and brain drain in the Ministry, as the Court of Auditors has also noted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	Let me start with that last question: is it a matter of too little knowledge that you opt for external hiring? No, this was a project with three clients: municipalities, provinces and I and M. So there was a need for an independent project director, one who did not come from one of the three organisations, hence the word "independent." Yeah, he did a project in Eelde, too. Both projects together cost no more than four days a week. So he probably did other things out there that we don't know. Or maybe he didn't, and he only worked four days a week. His role at Eelde and his role at the southern ring road were two different roles. Further questions have been asked about the way in which the remuneration has been achieved in relation to the reimbursement of expenses. I personally do not know whether or not I have been in the negotiations whether or not there is 'we are raising expenses so that the reward can be reduced'. So I do not know of any deliberate action in this area. I know, however, that in general terms it was found at the end that expenses were also relatively high. It was then discussed that we would no longer do so. Rijkswaterstaat hasn't shaped it that way for others either. The expenses fee was also adjusted downwards in 2013 and not artificially increased, so I just got delivered on a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	I only know from the paper. In the newspaper report, the agency admits that it has been examining exactly how to get below the norm. The rate has been reduced so that it was exactly below the beaming standard. I would like the Minister to look into that and to inform us by letter. Did Twynstra Gudde say anything in the paper that was completely wrong? Or is it true and, if so, what about the ministerial side? The broader point is that in 2014 hundreds of millions were spent by the Ministry on external hiring. Then there is the question whether this is not one of the many symptoms of knowledge erosion. Perhaps this question is not appropriate for oral Question Time, but I should also like to take a reflection on it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mrs Van Tongeren asks me for a letter. Let me answer what I know now. If that's not true, I'll send you a letter. According to the information I'm getting now, both the amount has been reduced in 2013, i.e. the hourly remuneration, as well as the expenses. That would indicate that this 'trick', as Mrs Van Tongeren has just said, has not been applied. That's my answer right now. I'll look into it. If things are different, the Chamber will receive a letter about it. As for the brain drain or the knowledge drain, the following. At some point, a relatively small government was chosen. You don't always have everything in your house, but you also hire knowledge, including from market players like Deltares. That is what happens in the construction of projects. In the Ministry, we must have knowledge of the evaluation of CSFs and the design of projects, and in particular others must have knowledge of the implementation and project guidance. Of course, you don't always have all the knowledge in the house, except for projects you have to do yourself. But that doesn't necessarily mean that you're weak because of it; that means that you shape it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	You have 15 seconds left, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	We are going to talk about this in another debate. The General Court says: Rijkswaterstaat mainly lacks staff with knowledge in the fields of building technology and ICT. If you don't have that knowledge, you can't control the projects and you're forced to hire externally. So far, this has been done for some 100 million. So that's a huge amount of external hire. However, I shall come back to this in a more fundamental debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	I call Mr Smaling. Oh, I see Minister wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	It is, of course, a question of whether this is an existential sum on a budget with some 11 billion. The most important thing is that very high wages or contributions are demanded in the market for ICT, for example, whereas these amounts cannot be given within the government. Sometimes you are forced to hire externally because of the rules we use ourselves. This just to finish with the beaming standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm surprised these people have to cost so much money. If I were not to work here and I would be asked to do so, I would do it for a fraction of the amount and probably so would Mr Monasch. So the question is why it should be so expensive and how it is that we are only informed by a newspaper article about this kind of cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	It's just market prices, but I'd like to hire Mr. Smaling on the next job. It is not the case that the Chamber has only been informed of this by means of a newspaper article, because we have always shown it to be transparent. The annual reports for 2011 and 2012 also show why this gentleman deserved more than the beaming standard. Abusively, this has not been reported in the first five months of 2013. The amount had already been brought down and at the end of the year it was not thought to mention this specifically, because it was thought to be within the lines at that time. I think that's how it turned out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	The Minister just clearly confirmed that the beaming standard should also apply to the external hire. Can it indicate how many more people are paid above the beaming standard? This also raises the question of whether this case is the only case not reported in the annual report. Or do we have no certainty that Rijkswaterstaat has reported everything at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	The last question is something else: is this the only one not reported? We have just checked whether other persons whose earnings have been reduced by negotiation have been misreported. That is not the case. There is an annex on the notifications made by RWS about hiring above the standard. This concerns three cases in 2011, three cases in 2012, one case in 2013 and two cases in 2014. Those cases have been reported to the Chamber and we make them transparent, as well as the reason why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	That is a clear explanation of this individual case. The description in the newspaper was also quite embarrassing for the person in question. I would like to mention a point that Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned, namely the expertise at Rijkswaterstaat. Last week we read in the newspaper that there is a market vision of Rijkswaterstaat. The VVD has asked critical questions about this before. Does the Minister intend to send a letter to the Chamber in which she comments on this market vision, on the expertise required for Rijkswaterstaat and on the extent to which this can be implemented in order to prevent us from getting back to this type of case in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	That is a very different subject, but I would like to go into the market vision and the agreements we have made with the market. There will be a much more intensive cooperation between government and the market, using each other's knowledge. I will inform the Chamber of what that means and how we deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	We have just heard that, apart from these reported cases, no other people have been hired by the department for an amount above the beaming standard. Is that even the case with another construction? In the past, at least we have had one through air traffic control. This person made four tons, stood on the payroll of air traffic control but worked mainly for the Ministry. So that's a form of posting. Are there other postings at this level where the payment is above the beaming standard? I imagine the Minister doesn't know this by heart. So it's also an excellent option if she checks it out and then answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	I have, of course, answered the question as to whether there are people in RWS above the beaming standard. Mrs Van Tongeren is now talking about air traffic control. Of course, that's another part of the ministry. The annual reports also present it by organisation unit. So I don't know by heart. Mrs Van Tongeren can actually see this herself in the reports, but I would like to give her an insight into that. I wonder what the best time to do that is. For example, I can also send it for the annual report in May, when we are talking about accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	I thank the Minister.
