ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The chance of the European Championship has been lost for the Netherlands. We're simply not in. We're at the top of another list. We are champions in another way, and that is a very sad observation, because it concerns the drug trafficking championship. The Netherlands is at the top and that is a disgrace. The Netherlands is a supplier of extremely harmful and illegal drugs in Europe. Again it appears that Dutch tolerance policy does not lead to less drugs, but to more drugs and not less victims, but more victims. As a result, many families are worried. They worry about children who become addicted and addicted, including in other countries. But it is also about farmers who have to dispose of waste illegally. They cost thousands of euros to clean up drug waste that was illegally dumped after illegal production. However, it also affects police capacity, because the police are very busy tracking down this drug trafficking. So it's asking a lot of us. Drugs and drug trafficking are an epidemic in the Netherlands. It's time to call it a halt. Does the Minister also find it deeply sad that the Netherlands is at the top of these lists? How is it that the Netherlands is the number one exporting country and what is the Minister going to do to tackle illegal drug trafficking harder? Do the police have enough capacity? I am certainly thinking of Brabant, where this weighs extremely heavily on the police. Is the approach strong enough? There are good experiences with the approach in Brabant. Shouldn't it be firmer, with more capacity and with more priority? Is the Minister prepared to apply the approach in Brabant, where all the agencies work together, also at national level together with provincial action clubs? Finally. Is the Minister prepared to continue to fight against drugs and drug trafficking without delay and with great commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Segers for his question in response to a report by Europol, which, on a number of pages, has made it quite clear that the Netherlands plays an important role in international drug trafficking. According to Europol, we are in particular an exporting country with regard to synthetic drugs and cannabis products. With regard to drugs such as cocaine, we are seen as an important port of transit. Mr Segers asked: why are we? The answer is that this is one of the sad consequences of the fact that the Netherlands is an important distribution country and that Rotterdam is one of the largest ports in Europe. All this is used by criminals and we know it. That's not new. We are doing a great deal to combat this effectively, but of course we need a long time to do so. Mr Segers asked if we still have the same priority that we had, namely to make a fist against drug crime. The answer is yes. A good example of this is that last week, with more than 1,000 police officers and dozens of prosecutors, we rolled up a huge network of drug criminals in the south of the Netherlands, focusing in particular on synthetic drugs. Six drug labs have been decommissioned. In addition, we have seized and withdrawn large quantities of drugs, but above all thousands of litres of raw materials for drugs. But not just that. This time too, firearms and a lot of money were found, as was the case with last year's action aimed mainly at specific criminal motorcycle gangs. This indicates that we are in the right place, but it is not a battle we will win in a few weeks. The Dutch government is committed to tackling hemp growing, the synthetic drug trade and the transit of drugs in the Netherlands. Last year, 6,000 farms were cleaned up. We see the effect of the legislative amendment that we jointly achieved with the Chamber last year. I am referring to Article 11a of the Opium Act, with which we can also address the preparation industry. I hope to be able to inform the Chamber about this shortly. The Dutch government is therefore fully committed to tackling all forms of drug crime in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	Those are nice words. I welcome the Minister's promise that he will continue to fight drugs. However, I would like to know whether the cabinet speaks with one voice. I have here a message from Secretary of State Van Rijn: moderate on drugs, focus more on health. He spoke at an international conference and said that the fight against drugs could be reduced. This signal was sent to the cabinet by Secretary of State Van Rijn. Now the Minister for Security and Justice says that the cabinet continues to fight against drugs and drug trafficking. What sound should we listen to? What is the real priority? Is that the fight against drugs, or should it be less toothless, as Secretary of State Van Rijn wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	There is no difference between the views of Secretary of State Van Rijn and mine. He rightly points to one of the key points of the policy of tolerance. I know that Mr Segers is not in favour of this, but I also know that the majority of the Chamber is in some form. In the Netherlands, we have always chosen public health as the starting point of the policy. That also leads to the policy of tolerance. I think we should both keep doing it. There is a major problem with drug addiction in the Netherlands. There is an increasing problem with the addiction to GHB. There is a problem with gradually becoming more or less normal of drugs like ecstasy and in some sense cocaine. These are all matters on which I regularly inform the Chamber. Secretary of State Van Rijn and I are very concerned about this from our joint responsibility. Drugs policy must therefore be based on two pillars. On the one hand, we must ensure that we serve public health in the Netherlands, especially those of vulnerable groups such as young people. On the other hand, we must ensure that criminals are given as little opportunity as possible to develop their activities in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u6	Every year, Europeans spend 24 billion on drugs. That's a huge consumption. The Netherlands plays a leading role in this. Then the question is what's priority. Secretary of State Van Rijn says: moderate the war on drugs. Is that a slip of the tongue or should we take it so seriously that we're gonna let things go eventually? Do we say: there is illegal trade, things are going as they are and we turn a blind eye?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u7	I don't think that would be a good policy. It's not our policy to let this go. Fortunately, Mr Segers knows that too. In the Agenda on Security, the fight against drug crime is absolutely number one. At the same time, Secretary of State Van Rijn realizes to us that you also really need to pay attention to the health aspects. This is not the same in the international context; I also think that Secretary of State Van Rijn referred to it. The warfare, as it is called in America, and the fight against crime is one. However, it is also very important to ensure prevention and information at the same time, so that the health problems of drug use and drug addiction are addressed in the Netherlands and abroad. I think it is up to Mr Van Rijn to raise this point in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u8	I agree with the Minister that health is an important aspect of the drugs problem. You have to look at this health aspect and help people get rid of their addiction. Of course, this is also a priority, but this must never be at the expense of the war on drugs, the fight against the illegal trade in which so many billions are involved and to which so many other forms of crime are associated. Do I understand why the Minister is now saying that he is committed to the fight against drugs and trafficking? Is the Brabant approach in which so many actors work together and stand shoulder to shoulder, an example of a rural approach? In the light of this report, could the Minister outline how we continue to fight drugs and intensify them wherever possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u9	I would be happy to make that last point to Mr Segers. I am talking to the mayors in the south of the Netherlands about how we are going to proceed. The task force set up by my predecessor a number of years ago will, in principle, end at the end of this year. We are now discussing how we can proceed with this, with what intensity and in what forms of cooperation. Mr Segers rightly pointed out that the current partnership consisted of a wide range of partners: the municipalities, the FIOD, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, but also all kinds of other services active in the fight against drugs. I will inform the Chamber on this and I am happy to take Mr Segers' points with me. I can confirm that, in addition to health policy, the approach to crime continues to be a high priority, as included in the National Security Agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u10	When can you inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u11	That is a good question, Mr President. I'll take a look around: for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u12	For the summer of 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u13	I expect to be able to report on this before the summer of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u14	There are very good sounds coming from Brabant, but also very nasty sounds because there are judges who have decided that it is okay to keep dozens of kilos of drugs in some kind of external storage and that owners and drug suppliers just laugh at it. How does the Minister judge this? What will he do to prevent us from having large drug storage areas later because the judges do not want to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u15	That's a complicated question. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that it is not on the way of the Minister for Security and Justice to criticise judgments. For this we have a different system: appeal and, if necessary, cassation. I do not know this particular example and therefore I do not know what stage the matter is at. If she wishes to make written questions about this and it would appear that the matter has now been resolved in the highest instance, I am prepared to give some kind of policy response to it. I should also like to express my reservations, because we have opted for an independent case law in the Netherlands. The latter I say with joy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr. Chairman. If I may, I would ask the Minister to be a little more specific and to respond to this EU report for the general consultation on the coffee shop policy planned for the summer. I think this is broader than Mr Segers' question on which the Minister has made a commitment. Furthermore, after this article, the general question remains as to what the Dutch approach, the war on drugs, has resulted in, all the more so because the same article states that Brabant and Limburg are the dairy cows of the synthetic drug policy. Can the Minister explain once again what his policies and his predecessors' policies have resulted in on this dossier when we see that the Netherlands has become more or less a narco state? Isn't it time for another policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u17	This is a difficult question from Mrs Volp. I'd like to inform the Chamber properly. The Chamber is regularly informed about the policy we have been pursuing for a number of years. We report annually on the drug laboratories and farms that are being dismantled. We are constantly adapting the laws in order to be able to develop new activities. I will inform the Chamber before the summer of the processing of Article 11a and the results obtained during the first period that this article is in force. It is a little difficult to say now that we are going to tell all this, because we are already doing so with great regularity. For the general consultation I will also refer to the many publications I have already sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u18	The article referred to by Mr Segers also talks about drug laboratories. Now, together with former colleague Oskam of the CDA, I have tabled a motion calling on the government to organise the closure of mayors' premises in which they find everything for the production of drugs such as xtc, et cetera, except the drug dealer himself. My question is: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of this motion? In particular, I would find it interesting to know whether this can be included in the letter the Minister has just promised for the summer of 2016. I would very much like it to be implemented so that mayors can also apply these instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-2.u19	I know that motion, of course. Fortunately, I have had a very extensive exchange of views on this very recently. I then agreed to discuss the content of that motion in a very short time in two plenary sessions. That is the so-called Security Council and the National Security and Police Consultation. I want to do two things. First of all, the mayors are well aware of the exact need and how, if there is a need, we can give the motion as carefully as possible. Secondly, whether we can provide for what we want to achieve, with the current instruments or perhaps with other means. I'm assuming those calls were made before the summer. We will be happy to include the outcome of these talks in the letter.
