ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the members of the Chamber, as well as the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and his staff. I would also like to welcome those who are following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	In the Netherlands, Richard still finds a job twice faster than Rachid. Employers still opt for Mark rather than Muhammad. With exactly the same CV, a native Dutchman is invited to a job interview much more often than someone with a migrant background. Unfortunately, equal opportunities are still far from being achieved in our labour market. I think that's a big problem. The cabinet says, "Fight your ass." However, that is far too easy if you do not even get the chance to explain your application because you have already been rejected on the basis of your name. I'll ask the Minister how to do your best. Thrilling moodry about fewer Moroccans only exacerbates the problem. D66 aims to provide equal opportunities for all regardless of colour, origin, sexual orientation, gender or age. However, equal opportunities do not only force a debate on additional capital taxes and refer to Mr Piketty. No, we will really have to go to the source of inequality, to create equality of opportunity. With the same education and experience, a white Dutch man still has a street-length lead on the labour market compared to someone whose parents were born in Turkey or Morocco. The Social Cultural Planning Bureau investigated this in the region of The Hague. Moroccan Dutch applicants were almost twice less often invited to a conversation. The Minister commissioned research in 2007, 2010 and 2012. That led to the same conclusions. Is there going to be a comprehensive SCP study on labour market discrimination again very soon? In the case of employers, prejudice has not been removed from one day to the next, but it is now very slow. We should be ashamed if in 2016 someone should not become an intern because he is gay. I was therefore very pleased with today's ruling by the Human Rights College that the company in question should not have excluded this boy. As far as I'm concerned, the government temporarily doesn't do business with such a company. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. We also still see people being rejected because in an internal e-mail that happens to come out is said: it's nothing, it's a dark colored one. I'm so embarrassed. Unfortunately, we are not going to solve that overnight, of course, but it was so easy to do so, but the Minister can do a lot more. The beautiful intentions should lead much more to beautiful results. The government stopped doing business with companies that had been convicted of crimes. What's going on with that, anyway? Is the counter still at zero? Isn't the bar too low? In fact, it does not lead to a criminal conviction, either de facto or hardly. Should we not consider whether we can also exclude companies that have been hard hit by the College of Human Rights or where the Labour Inspectorate has found that it is wrong there? I would like a response from the Minister to this suggestion. The new procurement directive that we are implementing at the moment has, in my view, increased the scope for this. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	Discrimination is a serious crime. To blame you for it is serious, but being accused of it is also serious. Does Mr Van Weyenberg not think it appropriate in a rule of law that, if you accuse someone of this, you wait for a ruling from the judge before taking action?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	I am particularly sorry that we have a Prime Minister who sends the message on behalf of the VVD: go fight. I think that's very serious. Of course, it shouldn't just be about allegations. However, if the Human Rights College makes a ruling, because someone is fired because they have cancer, or because someone is not getting an internship because they are gay, then we as a government have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	But this is not an answer to my question. It is a serious crime if it has indeed taken place, but being accused of it is also serious. Surely it is in a rule of law that a judge decides on it and that we only then proceed to far-reaching steps? Then I also agree with you that these should be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	As I said, this is not an accusation. This is a government organisation such as the Labour Inspectorate, which simply imposes an irreversible fine. That is a final statement, and that is something we simply have to consider. I'm really sorry that the VVD isn't open to this and apparently doesn't go beyond the call to fight you in. I am making a concrete proposal in a difficult debate. Well, the VVD doesn't feel like it. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr Van Weyenberg is talking about the College of Human Rights, but one can also think of the European Court, which also makes judgments in these cases, in my opinion recently in a case of someone who had not been adopted by the Ministry of Defence because he was ill and asked questions in writing. The nature of the judgments of both the College of Human Rights and the European Court is different from that of a criminal conviction. Where Mr Van Weyenberg says that labour discrimination is a major problem and that it needs to be considered how we can involve such statements in tackling labour market discrimination, I can come to an end with him, because such statements do say something. However, Mr Van Weyenberg goes one step further. He says: if the Human Rights College or the European Court has given a ruling, then the companies concerned must in all cases be excluded from public contracts. I think that's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	The latter is my bet. At the same time, with regard to procurement rules, it must always be proportionate. I believe that the directive, which has also been recently amended, offers much more room for consideration and action than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	But the judge makes the judgment "the company has discriminated against," period. The Human Rights College or the European Court also makes statements along the lines: there is not enough evidence that... If you allow this to lead to companies being excluded from public contracts, I believe that you are judging judicial authorities in such a way that it may lead to an erosion of such bodies. Although I find the essence of his point interesting, I wonder whether Mr Van Weyenberg is not at risk of harm in terms of measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	I welcome Mr Heerma's thought, because we clearly have the same goal. There is, of course, a difference between the pronunciation "you have not shown" and, for example, the case of that homosexual intern in which it is clear that purely on the basis of one's sexual orientation an internship has not been given. Of course, one statement is not the other, but if you have clearly discriminated against it, I think it can play a much greater role. What does the government itself do to encourage training for staff? Because let us also do prevention. It is not always evil will, it is sometimes prejudices that are almost unconsciously present. The Human Rights College suggests much more investment in this. How does the Minister feel about this? What about the Labour Inspectorate team set up at the initiative of Mrs Karabulut and myself? If I read in Trouw today that it is only a warning and that naming-and-shaming is not in it, then I am extremely concerned whether all the beautiful words and the beautifully presented plans will lead to results. What about the research on diversity already completed in 2015? At least that was a promise. What about the trial of anonymous application, which was also requested by the Chamber? I'm worried. I see a lot of beautiful intentions, but I think the results are lagging behind. Prejudice and discrimination must be vigorously combated as a Chamber, by expressing our opinion here in this Chamber, but also by policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands there is still a lot of discrimination and that hurts a lot of people and destroys our economy. It is therefore DENK's mission to eradicate discrimination and racism. But how does the rest of the Chamber feel about this? When I look to the right, I see the PVV, a party that does not support any proposal against discrimination. She's fine with discrimination. But that's because the PVV aims to discriminate, to put Muslims away and to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Öztürk is getting carried away. Apparently he wants another movie for his website in which he gets the PVV angry and wants to bashen. I'd like to give him that video with my heart's content. But if he was suffocated in his first lie, he wouldn't be standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	The PVV is a party that discriminates. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's There have been several trials. How many times has your leader, Geert Wilders, been called upon to do so? How often has the PVV not been addressed on discrimination...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr Öztürk, we are speaking through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	When I look to the left, I see the PvdA, a party that says, "If you want a chance at a job, you have to change your name." Instead of tackling companies that discriminate hard, the PvdA places the burden on people who are discriminated against. The PvdA accepts discrimination. That's the reverse world, isn't it? But the people in the country are sick of discrimination. At DENK we receive daily emails about it. I'm gonna force the Chamber to listen to that. On the DENK Facebook page, a gentleman writes: "I am unemployed because of discrimination in the labour market. I regularly apply through temporary employment agencies, but I am never included in the application procedures. When I apply with the same background, but a Dutch name, I do receive an invitation." What is the Minister's response to this e-mail? Must this man keep changing his name endlessly, so I ask the PvdA. Another man tells us: "At my old employer I was called a terrorist and was constantly talking about Muslims. Eventually, I got into a fight about this and got fired. With my current employer, I am often approached by colleagues who say: shave your beard; I feel threatened. These colleagues are all PVV people." I was also addressed to the PvdA that I had to shave my beard. I ask the PVV if she wants to address her xenophobic tuning stock. These stories make it clear that we must be tough on companies that discriminate. DENK has long argued for a chain approach to discrimination, for an educational measure discrimination, for a racism register and for locator applications. If the Minister and the Chamber do not do so, they will not take the stories of all those hundreds of thousands of people seriously and we will soon be back here to discuss them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. Because of your homosexuality being rejected, because of your name and your origins being rejected and not given a chance, because of your age being rejected: discrimination in the labour market and entering the labour market is growing, simply because you are not Mark but Mohammed, because you are not 20 but 50, because you are not a man but a woman. The latter also happens in 2016. Even if you're the most exemplary employee, even if you have the same qualities, you're still disadvantaged because of your origins. The most recent research into the labour market in The Hague shows that even with extra pluses you have unequal opportunities. For applicants who claim to subscribe to the Dutch standards and values, who claim to love and participate in the country, this appears to make a difference. Apparently, for certain groups in the imagery, it is assumed that this is not the case. And I think that's where the deeper problem lies. Of course, discrimination in the labour market is also growing due to a huge shortage of jobs, due to the dismantling of social security and labour rights. This leads to inequality and brutality and thus also to growing discrimination. Big companies and politicians are doing nothing. They do what they please at the expense of the workers. That is the feeling that is living ever wider among the wider layers of the population. What is the Minister's response to this? When is he going to make sure that there is real investment in good, equivalent jobs? Fortunately, this minister sees the problem of discrimination in the labour market and wants to do something about it. In itself, this is a prerequisite for tackling unequal treatment. I have to say, however, that it is not progressing. In 2012, we discussed the problem. In 2013, the minister was going to do something about it. In 2014 he came up with an approach. Now, in 2016, we, or I, have seen little result. It's about combat, it's about hard work. I wonder how many companies have now been convicted of criminal offences. How many companies have been fined by the Labour Inspectorate in the absence of anti-discrimination policies? The policy is there, but the actions are lacking. Meanwhile, the reports of discrimination continue to reach us. I want to see not just a list of action points, but concrete actions. Is the Minister prepared to give the Labour Inspectorate more teeth? In accordance with the General Law on equal treatment, it should be able to assess not only policy but also concrete discrimination, whether or not in cooperation with the Human Rights College, the Public Prosecutor and the police. In other countries this is possible. How does the Minister feel about that? Is it true that the Labour Inspectorate currently has no or little powers to tackle labour market discrimination in recruitment and selection, where there is the biggest problem? It is about joining the labour market. That's where you're refused. There is also a problem in the workplace, but recruitment and selection are the problem. I would like the Labour Inspectorate to be given powers in this regard. I also want higher fines and a blacklist of companies, not cautious "if so, but." When we receive a press release from the College of Human Rights, the Labour Inspectorate looks at what it will do with it. I just want insight and clarity. I would also like us, as a government, with the Labour Inspectorate as an important body, to open a hotline where people can go, after which the inspection will take effect, whether or not in cooperation with other bodies involved. I come to my final point. The government, the minister, the Empire, must set a good example. When we look around, we all see that diversity within companies, but also within government organisations, is still a long way to go. Is the Minister prepared to come forward with concrete action in this area within the next two months? I would like to give him, for example, the tests with anonymous applications carried out here in The Hague, to be carried out nationally. Where it is then proved that there are problems with access and discrimination on the work floor, he can immediately draw up a concrete plan, tackle it and ensure that diversity in terms of background, sexual preference, disability and male-female relations finally comes to an end within a number of years. Not after 20 or 30 years, because that's how long we've been talking about it. I think this is what society needs right now. We are all the Netherlands, we are all part of it. It's not about your lineage. It's about what you can do and what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is a report ordered by Mr Baldewsingh, who has been here in The Hague for about ten years. He had indeed discovered cases about labour market discrimination. It's really a Baldewsingh thingy. I know the man from a previous life. He's a good guy, but he's always hammering on stuff like that. I'm already smelling an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yeah, that was fast. Mr Van Weyenberg, do you have any questions? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr President, I certainly have a question because, as far as I am concerned, it is also a Van Weyenberg thingy. Mr De Graaf is acting like this is some bullshit. He thinks it's a thing of people, but does he think it's reprehensible with me and with Mr Baldewsingh that you're not invited to a job interview based on your last name?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u20	I believe that anyone in any company can decide who to invite or not to invite. I do not think that the government should sit in the head of an entrepreneur to determine for that entrepreneur who he invites or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u21	That scares me again, because every time the monkey comes out of the sleeve: the PVV apparently thinks discrimination is fine. I repeat my question. That someone with a good resume is invited because his name is Jan, but is not invited because his name is Piet, is fine with you. Is that the PVV line? If so, then the last layer of varnish that you would not discriminate has completely disappeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u22	Total nonsense what Mr Van Weyenberg says. Apologies for the fact that I kind of stepped on his genitals by not mentioning his name, because of course, as he himself said, it's his thing. But he does draw very strange conclusions from the answer I just gave. He comes up with all sorts of assumptions about the PVV and yells "discrimination!" Everyone discriminates! Discrimination is a biological fact; we make a distinction. If you don't make a distinction, you don't see the difference between an eel and a snake and you're a dead man. That's discrimination. That's making a distinction. It's something very simple, that's inside every human being. The fact that a person is rejected on the basis of his last name must first be proven. I read in the newspaper that Mr Van Weyenberg himself says that there has not been a single trial; at least he has reflected on it in a newspaper article. But to appeal to the PVV that we are in favour of discrimination and that we are all fine with it: total nonsense! That is total nonsense, but I do think that the government should not sit in the head of an entrepreneur and that is something quite different to decide for that entrepreneur who he should or should not invite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you. I think it's going to be a repeat of moves. Mr Van Weyenberg, we're doing two-way interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr President, I feel addressed and I am making this a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u25	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u26	The reason I was standing here wasn't the question of who owns this file. I come with Mr Baldewsingh, and I hope that everyone in the Chamber will stand up for Article 1 of the Constitution, namely that we are all equal. In the case of discrimination, you make a distinction without justification. That is quite different from Mr De Graaf's example, because a snake is not a snail. But Muhammad with a good education is no less than Jan with the same education. That's what the PVV doesn't recognize, and that's what I find objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. The point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr President, I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u29	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u30	This, too, is total nonsense. Without justification? Of course we all understand what it's about, but we don't believe in making it work. We do not believe that the government should sit in the head of an entrepreneur and that the government should be allowed to decide for another what to do. What Mr Van Weyenberg wants is simply dictatorial!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u31	Was Mr Öztürk or Mr Heerma the first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u32	They're allowed at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr President, I am a gentleman and leave it to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you. Mr De Graaf stated that the government should not look into the head of companies and that companies are entirely self-involved about who they accept. A company is therefore completely free to do so. Does that mean that Mr De Graaf agrees that companies exclude applicants on the basis of age, because they feel that people over 50 do not work hard enough? Can these companies indeed say 'only applicants under 50 have a chance of getting our vacancies'? Is that okay or is that discrimination? Does the PVV agree that a company should know that entirely and that the government has no role to play in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u36	I can see that Mr Heerma has probably never worked in a company or had a business. His first remark was, by the way, a misrepresentation of what I said. I've said it differently, but I'm not going to go all the way back to that. If someone has the choice of a 24-year-old job interviewer and a 49-year-old job interviewer, the age is not the only difference between those two people. There are a lot of differences between applications. But again, a director of a company or a HR manager probably joined a company because he didn't want to be a civil servant. A civil servant shouldn't touch that HR manager. Those are two separate worlds. Each company makes its own choices and that happens on the basis of a lot of things. We must avoid going in the wrong direction in this discussion. When someone yells, "I've only been rejected on the basis of my age," you might wonder if it is. Then we will indeed have a legal system within the rule of law to investigate whether there is wrong or criminal discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u37	I doubt that, because Mr De Graaf seems to be using my interruption to express personal indulgences to colleagues and finish the rest of his speech, just as he has done to others. But in no way has he answered the specific question I asked. If the government should not interfere with this and if this is up to companies themselves, does Mr De Graaf think it is appropriate that companies should choose not to offer opportunities to applicants over 50, for example, because they feel that workers over 50 are not working hard enough? According to the PVV, is that okay? That's a very simple question. Doesn't the government have a job to do here? Is it up to the companies themselves to decide that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u38	If the regulation states that this is criminal discrimination, this should be maintained. It's very simple. But again, you should not sit in the head of the HR manager, as Mr Van Weyenberg wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u39	I said in my first contribution that the PVV is fine with discrimination. Mr De Graaf has today acknowledged that we can also lay down in the texts that the monkey has come out of the bag and that the PVV thinks discrimination is fine. But what does Mr De Graaf say to all those PVV people who are no longer MP, Member of the State or Council? They have to apply and cry when they can't get a job because they have "PVV" on their résumé. What does he say to all those entrepreneurs who discriminate against them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u40	Then I still find that very annoying for these people. Sometimes it is asked by people and sometimes a newspaper article is made of it. Mr Öztürk calls it "shouting," but it's quite something if you because of your ideas...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u41	Ooh!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u42	... ifyou do not come to work because of your ideas. And here comes part two of the answer. Of course you always have to wait for that, because a sentence often consists of two parts: a beginning and an end. I'm not going to that employer to say, "You have to hire a PVV man because he's been discriminated against." I'll never do that. This is a very different approach to Mr Öztürk, who believes that every Muslim in the Netherlands is discriminated against, and who is crying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u43	I am not saying that all Muslims are discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u44	Regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u45	I'm saying it's time to tackle discrimination. I say we go after the racists. I say that we should also tackle the parties that support the racists. So Mr De Graaf's party must also be dealt with thoroughly in order to curb discrimination. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u46	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr De Graaf says that all PVV workers should get a job because they have a certain idea. And if someone's following another idea...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u48	No, I'm not saying that! Mr Öztürk twists my words!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u49	...he shouldn't get a job. This is the pinnacle of discrimination and a confirmation of discrimination by the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u50	Whether it was unintelligible Dutch or Limburgish, but this does not make any sense at all. I assume Mr Öztürk thinks the PVV is racist. I'd like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, Mr. De Graaf, you're not going to challenge. You're just gonna answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u52	I'd like to know, because it affects the rest of my response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think the question was clear. We're not gonna ask each other questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u54	Fine. If that is the case, I have seen Mr Öztürk nodding. From now on, he will never receive an answer from me in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u55	I'm being addressed to this, so I think I need to make this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u56	We're not gonna ask any questions again. You've had two interruptions. Mr De Graaf talks about his own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u57	He has spoken to me about this and he has made a conclusion to it. It can't be that I can't answer that. His conclusion is that he doesn't want to answer me. Not that this is so bad, but I do want it corrected. I'm watching for the PVV to become a racist party and I'm trying to slow down the PVV movement. But if the PVV continues this way, the party will move in that direction. That's what I'm watching for, and that's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u58	What did you say, Mr De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u59	I do not need the patronage of Mr Öztürk. Let him deal with his own party and let him stay away from the PVV. That's what the whole of the Netherlands thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u60	I have a question, because I am trying to distill something from the mix of Mr De Graaf's answers. The head of the company decides to reject someone. He doesn't do that because of a conversation or his resume, but because of his last name. The company makes no secret of that. That's a criminal offence. Does Mr De Graaf agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u61	If it's a criminal offence, it's a criminal offence. Then we have the rule of law and the means to do so. It's simple, isn't it? It's not that hard. Only you all want to hear other things from me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u62	The 25-year-old Bas was rejected for an internship because he's gay...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u63	Terrible!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u64	... and the first article of our Constitution states that all who are in the Netherlands must be treated equally. No distinction should be made on the basis of gender, political orientation, belief of life, religion, race and so on. Do you subscribe to this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u65	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u66	If the PVV claims to be in favour of the first article of our Constitution, can it not believe that companies have the freedom to reject people on the basis of their origin, sex or sexual preference? Then your answer must also in all cases be "no, that should not be"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u67	Yes, but what Mrs Karabulut says, the PVV never claimed! We're not in favour of rejecting people because they're gay. We're not in favour of rejecting them because of their color. We're not in favour of turning down because of a Muslim background in a job interview or anything like that. What Mrs Karabulut brings up is not the case at all! So she doesn't have to ask the question and I don't understand the problem. You all want to hear answers in my answers that aren't there. You create a problem by putting the PVV in a certain angle when that problem just isn't there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u68	You must speak through the President, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr De Graaf should not be so dramatic and crying. I heard him say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u70	No, there's no tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mrs Karabulut, we're doing two-way interruptions. I will give you a very brief opportunity to ask a question, but not a long one, and then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u72	I said it because, in his term and in response to questions from colleagues, Mr De Graaf made the point that it is up to companies to advance Mark over Muhammad and that it is good that Muhammad will not get a job or at least not an equal chance, but that has been resolved here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u73	We're having a derivative discussion here. There is much more to it than just labour market discrimination. It never came out of my mouth that I was okay with Muhammad being rejected, but Mark wasn't. That's total bullshit! Only, someone in an H.R. department can select their own letters. If there is indeed criminal discrimination, we have the rule of law for that. We do not need to have this debate. That's why I told you, you guys want to hear things that aren't there. But I think it would be better if I continued my speech. Otherwise, we're gonna be stuck in this kind of weird shit, in mice like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u74	Yes, and you were just getting started. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u75	Yeah, three words and gone for 28 seconds! I think that's good, too. We go straight to the Minister's approach. There is a real action plan on labour market discrimination. We have already talked about tackling criminal discrimination, but we are also focusing on changing subconscious, indirect, non-criminal discrimination. I think that's a social experiment I wouldn't want to do. George Orwell couldn't have thought of it better. People are different. Animals, things, cultures, ideologies, religions, they all differ. I've already talked about that. But, says the Minister of SZW, it is wrong to see differences! Then you start a debt campaign. That is entirely according to the first commandment of the politically correct congregation: "Thou shalt see no differences." But if you look around here alone, you can see that there are differences between all people. If you translate this into football, you get a competition in which seventeen rounds of nine matches end up equal each time. No more spectators! There are differences. The difference between ADO and FC Groningen, the difference between Ajax and Feyenoord, those differences are there. There is also a difference between an eel and a snake, and also between a tiger and a cat. If you want people to stop seeing them, they're dead. If you translate that into a society, then such a society is doomed. There are not only reports ordered by Mr Baldewsingh. There are other reports. They say that diversity, especially forced diversity, leads to less cohesion, more dissatisfaction and difficult communication. You have to be careful of that too! I ask the Minister, on behalf of the government, to remove the signature from the diversity charter. I will go to a great example to warn everyone in the Netherlands. There is a very large example in the world where diversity policies, including many governments in the Netherlands, have been fully implemented. All institutions and companies in that country should be a true reflection of national demographics. It was a total disaster. This policy was conducted in South Africa and is called "regulating axioms." This reigning axiom comes from the sister party of the Labour Party, still the African National Congress. It led to massive bankruptcies, poverty and infant mortality, and social and cultural collapse. The incredibly wrong thing to say is that the incredibly wrong "slegs vir whites" has been exchanged for the equally wrong "slegs vir blackes" with the help of the Labour Party and more Dutch prominents, who are still in the Chamber. It has led to genocide and the so-called 'plaas murder', which is still taking place with a peak last year. South Africa has been destroyed by diversity policy and our brother people are being decimated there. All this with the help of the PvdA. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u76	We are having a debate on labour discrimination in the Netherlands, following a newspaper article. What is being said here is far from me as the representative of the Labour Party. I have no further question for Mr De Graaf. I find his contribution extremely offensive and historically incorrect. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u77	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u78	I leave Mr De Graaf's remarks to Mr De Graaf. For the people at home, Bas and Ans of 50 years old and Mohammed, all of whom hate that discrimination in the labour market, I ask the following question. What proposals does Mr De Graaf make to tackle the problem, except that we should leave businesses alone? I haven't heard them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u79	First of all, I would like to respond to Mrs Vermeij. Then I'll join Mrs Karabulut. I can imagine that facts are painful and I am glad that Mrs Vermeij at least distances herself from her PvdA. Facts are facts. Thousands of footnotes in a book by my colleague Martin Bosma have not been pulled out of their minds. Those are just facts. In fact, Jan Pronk, who participated, has acknowledged that it is. So it's nice to have Mrs Vermeij back away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u80	Mr. Chairman. It's getting a little hilarious. I look at you, Mr President, because this has not been said. I'm calling you in on this. There are also limits in a debate. In a debate, you talk to each other, but you also listen to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u81	That's right, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u82	My position was different from the distortion that Mr De Graaf is now giving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u83	Well, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u84	There have been many distortions here during the debate, as I have seen as President. It is part of the debate and it will then be rejected. Mrs Vermeij, you are right that this debate is about labour discrimination. We are talking here about diversity policy. It is also up to the members themselves what words they use. I'll make sure there's no cursing. You can expect that from me. Furthermore, you have made your own move to make your point, and you have done so. Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u85	I'm waiting for an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u86	I'd like to give it to you. That's what's coming. As I said in an earlier reaction, we are talking about a derivative of a discussion, a derivative. The real problem is that the labour market is not running. Why isn't it running? Because of torrential burdens imposed and huge cuts that continue and continue, leaving the whole labour market running. We also have massive immigration. The borders are not dense. If you do something about it, Mohammed and Ali will get more work done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u87	I have to say that Mr De Graaf not only leaves Muhammad, but also Ans and Bas, who are rejected because of his homosexuality. The PVV has contributed to the burden increase which has indeed eliminated jobs. The PVV shows a bit of street boy behavior here but then leaves the people very much in the lurch. Again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u88	We've had that discussion three times. This interruption has been committed seven times by Mrs Karabulut. I have also replied seven times: we do not abandon people. I referred to our election programme. I'm gonna do it anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u89	You're not going to list your entire election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u90	Certainly not, but I can respond to Mrs Karabulut's interruption. We got off when it got awesome. We have taken responsibility, but the SP does not know that word. Our election programme has indeed been calculated and came out the best way to create jobs. What more do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u91	First of all, I have the friendly advice to Mr De Graaf to google the word 'apartheid' once. I think he can learn something from it. Mrs Karabulut does indeed ask a valid question. What is one concrete idea for today's subject, labour market discrimination, which Mr De Graaf tells the Minister for Social Affairs to do about it? What's the minister gonna do for that 60-year-old unemployed guy who's not gonna get to work? What's he gonna do for that woman who's stuck with the company that gives her little chance, for that young person who doesn't come through the job application procedure based on his last name and for that gay kid who doesn't get an internship? I am simply asking for one concrete suggestion on today's subject. Surprise us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u92	I shall now come to Mr Van Weyenberg's first comment, because I can respond to that. I have already said something about the second comment. Let the rule of law do its job. We have rules for that. Let us above all reduce the burden and close the borders. Again, we have just had that discussion. Let me come back to the subject of apartheid. May I point out to Mr Van Weyenberg that his group colleague Pia Dijkstra has taken action for Radio Freedom? That was to abolish apartheid in South Africa, the apartheid I abhor. The seventeen racial laws of the previous regime were terrible, but Mrs Dijkstra helped to ensure that 117 anti-white race laws were introduced into the new South Africa. There's been a new apartheid coming back that's 20 times worse. I think it is too much to blame me for apartheid, when his own group is not clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mr. De Graaf...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u94	No, I'm talking about facts, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u95	Yes, but we are not having a debate on this subject. Mr Van Weyenberg introduced the term "apartheid." You have been able to respond to that, but I would like to focus on labour discrimination and diversity policy. That is what this debate is about and not about the whole world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u96	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr Van Weyenberg, would you like to limit yourself to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u98	With all due respect, it shouldn't get any weirder now. Mr De Graaf has been here for three minutes verbally throwing stones. He is now also embarrassing my group colleague, whom I am very proud of, with the most bizarre accusations. Then you tell me I can't mention that subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u99	I mentioned facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u100	I find it very remarkable. My comment to Mr De Graaf is that I note that, apart from general words, he does not have one solution for the 60-year-old job seeker Ans, not one solution for the homosexual Bass. He's screaming in his state, thinks he's gonna have to bring in the most ridiculous things. Zero solutions. I was hoping he'd surprise me sometime, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u101	The man who creates problems and is too afraid to face the facts of his own group? Never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u102	I have a point of order. I call on the chairman to take her responsibility. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u103	Because I'm not telling you what you want to hear!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr De Graaf began to acknowledge that the PVV discriminates. After that, he was pretty well dealt with by the Chamber. Then he said that discrimination based on religion should not be allowed by the PVV either. How can it be that his party colleague, Mr Graus, tabled a motion stating that Muslims are not allowed to work at Schiphol? That's discrimination based on religion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u105	Old discussion, ideology. In fact, Mr Öztürk also discriminates. He's posterizing as a Muslim. As a Muslim, you know you hang the Sharia, and it divides the world in two. There are 91 orders in his book, the Koran, to follow Muhammad. He did nothing but hate unbelievers, gays and Jews, chop off the head and the like. That is his great example: who discriminates here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr De Graaf has made a mockery of himself here today. It gives zero solutions. Too bad this kind of guy gets a chance to split up our country. Too bad people like this are causing discrimination. If we cannot stop all of this, it can be a fatal event for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u107	If it is up to Mr Öztürk, I have written the Koran and split the world in two. It's the world upside down, but that's how we know Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u108	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u109	I will end with a few examples. On the website of the so-called Halal police you can read that companies where non-Muslims work should be boycotted with the aim of getting them closed down. In other words: slegs vir muslims. Can the Minister respond to this and say how he feels about it? Tens of thousands of healthcare workers have been fired in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, in Katwijk they are followed by asylum seekers. I think that is labour discrimination. Asylumers have to volunteer at the old people's center: a nice picture of the minister while they are jogging without being able to understand each other. In Budel, Dutch people who want to work regularly have to clean the toilets on azc's in return for a benefit. Those Dutch people are supposed to work in the old people's home, even if only because they speak the same language. And asylum seekers have to clean up their own mess until they're out of the Netherlands again. I have just given three examples of labour discrimination in the Netherlands, but I am not going to cry. However, I do think that Dutch workers in the examples I give and people with benefits here are severely humiliated by their own government. I say to the Minister: stop this!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u110	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA Group. Sorry, Mrs Vermeij of the PvdA Group. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u111	My name is still not Mrs. Heerma. It's time for a good joke, but the subject is far too serious for that. Mr. Chairman. Last week, I got an e-mail from a new intern with us. She is training legal services and asked if she could attend this debate. I said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Her name is Leila Kallal and she's in the back of the room. I thought, there's a reason why she's asking me. So I had a conversation with her. And yes, I only had to google it. We even asked Parliament questions about it. The minister knows her, too. She had also received an internship in Zeeland for her training. But when she got that internship, she had to promise she would never wear a headscarf. She does a training in legal services and thought to herself: if I am not able to stand up for myself, how can I help all those people who come to me with these questions in the distant future? She made a case of it, and she even made a recording. It's all been in the news, so I dare to tell you because it's been widely measured and I was allowed to tell you. She won the case, like Bas van der Meer today, for the College of Human Rights. I'll tell you dry, but if I've understood the story correctly, I'm sure I won't be able to explain it in all the finesses here. The most painful thing was that the employer in question said to her: I'm a Dutch company and I can ask you this. Leila Kallal is Dutch, as Dutch as I am, as Dutch as everyone here in this room. That was actually the most offensive or discriminatory ruling that has been made. In doing so, I am taking a leap towards this debate, towards a discussion that has already been held by other spokesmen...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u112	I think it's a very good point. Mrs Vermeij has the core. I am convinced that there are many similar stories that do not emerge. These statements have been made, but the question is, of course, what impact this has on these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u113	That's a good question. That was exactly the subject I wanted to go to. Despite that evidence, the case did not appear to be sufficient for a trial to be concluded, despite the fact that we have put questions to the House about it. Today, the homosexual intern Bas van der Meer won his case for the College of Human Rights. However, that does not mean legal proceedings and therefore does not mean condemnation, while discrimination is prohibited in that country. That's the difficulty, that's the complicated part. That is why I have put a question, a different one, but the same one as Mr Steven van Weyenberg. This process of justice is complicated, whereas we have rightly decided, together with all of us, that it should not, will not, and cannot, be, as stated in Article 1 of the Constitution. That's a big good. In practice, however, these kinds of cases prove to be extremely difficult in legal terms. How do we deal with this, even in the exemplary role of the government? Is there a need, for example, to exclude such companies from public procurement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u114	I've made some suggestions. This is exactly the problem. It is also what partly feeds cynicism. The Minister and other Members of Parliament are right to say: make it work. All of that has to be done. We need to discuss it and debate it. But the government, the legislator, the employers and employees together must also show that companies can't get away with it. They'll get away with it so far. Really! It's horrible. If beneficiaries and job-seekers misplace one form, they will receive huge fines, while large companies who are guilty of discrimination get away with it. My question to Mrs Vermeij is whether she supports the idea that we should not only allow the unit of the Labour Inspectorate which has now been released to carry out investigations but to give teeth so that it can bite, give instruments so that it can also carry out more and more in-depth research and also impose higher fines on companies. As is already happening in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u115	I think it's an interesting question. I'd also like to ask the government if it can do that. Besides, I'm really looking for some won trials. I hope that there will also be a number of court cases, with evidence, which will eventually lead to a conviction, which will give you real case law for follow-up cases. I'm saying it's pretty hard. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this matter. He has a special role, because he is a lawyer from home and he must have a sense of this. In the case of Leila Kallal there was just a recorded conversation, and yet they found it insufficient evidence for a trial. I think that's special. I think that's weird. I don't understand that with my sense of justice. How is that possible? How do we change that? And if that is not possible, can we use other means or opportunities to do so? I find that incredibly important. This applies not only to people with a foreign surname, for which we also have the motion (34300-XV, no. 40) on anonymous applications. I also agree with everyone, including the Human Rights College, who says that this does not remove the cause. No, it doesn't take away the cause, but it's a method of getting people at the table and to point out to HR departments, staff departments, all those advisors and all those executives who consciously or unconsciously are sometimes based on the good of man, not to seek diversity, that those people simply have a right to have a conversation at the table based on their abilities and not on their last name or date of birth. Because that too is a big problem. We also belong in the Committee on Social Affairs at the round tables here and in conversations with people that there are people who have sent 200 applications and are not invited. 45-plus seems to be old in employers' countries. You don't have to think about it, do you? We're just gonna keep working together for a little longer. It's really crazy. I do not see Mr Krol in the Chamber now. We have a motion (29544, No. 657) in order to set up a figurehead against older people's unemployment. I haven't heard a name yet. On that, too, I say: come with it, to remove those prejudices. Finally, I would like to mention a motion (34300-VIII, No. 39) on the final approach to internships. It could help a lot. It has been submitted together with SP and GroenLinks to ensure that young people get the right to a place in their first meeting on the labour market, and not, as the boy in that beautiful but tragic documentary has to go to companies 222 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u116	I always have to take a deep breath when we come back with the umpteenth ambassador to fight youth unemployment or old age unemployment. The Minister says immediately: of course they are not going to create jobs. That's exactly the problem. Would it not be better for Mrs Vermeij to support our idea of obliging companies from below to pursue diversity policies in order to develop them? First of all, we say: you must explain in your annual report what you are doing about diversity. This is indeed about young, old, man, woman, children of migrants and non-migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u117	I'm just thinking about what we're demanding right now. I do not know the details exactly, but this too can become a paper tiger without us all actually doing it. Such an internship approach is doing something. We want the first confrontation with the labour market of young people on the MBO to succeed. Whoever they are and whatever they do, they must learn to work and be given the opportunity to do so. I think that's a DIY agenda. Fortunately, I have been able to convince the SP Group that this is a good idea about the elderly unemployment, because there are also so many prejudices, such as the prejudice that these people are no longer flexible or no longer willing to take up training. Nothing could be further from the truth. We need to convince a lot of employees of that. I still believe in that. I know that many large companies already account for themselves through their annual report. I know that from the pension sector. That's where you get corporate social responsibility. That's what sustainability is all about. This includes diversity policy. There's a lot of things in there. I also have a counter-proposal that is even more useful; this debate is a good opportunity for that. I propose that the concept of 'diversity policy' and the way in which you deal with it should be given substantial attention in the HR departments and in the training of HR posts such as staff advisors. Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u118	Sure, there's a lot more to be done. If you don't want to oblige a company to answer for that, how can you do something? Then it simply doesn't happen. Not only does the works councils have an important role to play in this. Let us start very concretely with a DIY agenda for the government. I haven't seen that one either. If you really want to do something and fight discrimination on the basis of age, too, then we need to give teeth to the Labour Inspectorate. That's doing something. In addition, I would say: finally step out of the cabinet, because this cabinet, with its austerity policy, is making a lot of jobs disappear and that the differences and inequalities between young and old, poor and rich are only increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mrs Vermeij, I would ask you to reply a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u120	I can imagine. It was a good opportunity to speak out part of my speech. I'll finish soon. Moreover, I have to say that Mrs Karabulut unfortunately did not get the latest CBS figures, because we are climbing out of the valley, there is more work and unemployment is falling. I'm very happy about that. Nor do I believe that a cabinet crisis has anything to do with employment and that it will give employment an immediate upswing, quite the contrary. So that does not seem to me to be a constructive contribution to solving this problem. I'm rounding up. I have mentioned a number of motions that still need to be dealt with. I have tried to address the deeper problem, such as the problem of the burden of proof in dealing with discrimination. I hope that the Minister will consider with the Chamber how we can deal with this. It sounds a bit crazy, but there is an underlying layer: the training courses, including staff advisors, the HR departments, the labour organisations and management. That is where we must begin to ensure that we in this country do justice to Article 1 of the Constitution, namely that everyone is equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u121	When I hear Mrs Vermeij's nice proposals, I think: well, fun. But her party has been one of the two coalition parties of this cabinet for more than three years, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. Asscher's on the buttons. He's got millions, he's got officials and he's got policy room. And yet discrimination in the Netherlands has become worse. And yet there has been more racism. And yet we have more unemployed. Mrs Vermeij mentioned taking-and-shaming. The Human Rights College has condemned the Yacht company. I have a position here from the same company. As long as her minister and her party keep beautiful stories...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u122	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u123	...we can't solve this problem. When is the Labour Party going to bite, deliver?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u124	I must say that the motions I have tabled with colleagues really do bite. I do not know any motions by Mr Öztürk on this subject. That's what I'm looking for. Nor have I seen an action plan with 42 updated points. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? No, Mr Öztürk. Do I want it any different? Yes, Mr Öztürk, I want it to be different. Can you do better? Yeah, it could be much better. Can we come up with new cases? Yeah, we can really come up with new cases that can do better. Here in this country, everyone deserves a fair chance, no matter how old you are, whoever you are, whether you're gay, whatever your last name is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u125	Those 42 action points didn't come until after two years. That is the priority that the Labour Party and Minister Asscher attach to this issue. Our motions, which you voted against? Do you want me to name them? Chain approach discrimination. Purification of racists in the government. It's a racism register. The Labour Party has voted against all those motions that we have tabled to show by naming-and-shaming what can happen to you if you are racist. Now you dare to say: we do our best, but we cannot. Is this an operation to prepare the Netherlands for acceptance of discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u126	I'm far from it. If you see what we are doing at the moment, if you see what we have done in the past, then you can see that we have asked questions about the homosexual intern, not you. We have a minister with an action plan. As is well known, it is not just about the government, it is about all the employers who are behind this. Mr Öztürk, you know better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is an SCP study that came out in the middle of last year, confirming once again that labour discrimination is a serious problem. Mr Van Weyenberg's request for debate was therefore widely supported in this House, in which many parties, including my own party, even wholeheartedly supported the request. I want to sigh about this debate itself. During the last hour there have been five or six classes in the public gallery. When we look at the personal pampering and pampering of parties, I wonder if we can be proud of each other for this debate. Or do we all, when we see this debate later, get a mild feeling of shame? Because what kind of example do we give people who are looking at this debate when we have this debate with each other? Would we like the schoolchildren sitting here in the public gallery to have a conversation like that in the schoolyard? Labour discrimination is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. The Minister announced tough measures for this in 2014. During the preparation of this debate, the topics on the agenda, I raised the question of whether we have heard back. Or have a lot of things started that are unclear about what they've achieved? The press release issued this morning by the Minister gave a number of suggestions for answers to the questions I have on this subject. However, I am going to go there, because those answers were sometimes a little short, a little more explicit about questions. What is the status of the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination? What are the results? What happened? Is the Minister satisfied with that? Mr Van Weyenberg spoke very specifically about the exclusion of companies. Is it true, as Trouw writes this morning, that the counter is at zero, but also that the inspection says that taking-and-shaming based on discrimination is not possible, that there will be no fines for discrimination and that no companies will be excluded? That's what I get from the article in Trouw this morning. This shows a very different picture than the Minister's press release this morning. I would like an extensive reflection from the Minister on this and also on what the inspection says. This seems to run counter to the harsh words the Minister spoke about in 2014. What about the multi-annual comprehensive information campaign to combat labour market discrimination? As far as I know, that would have started last fall. However, I read in the press release this morning that it will start in mid-2016. Is this true and why is it so delayed? I believe that 150 companies would participate in the diversity charter, but I read in the press release that there are a few dozen of them at the moment. Is the Minister satisfied with the results so far? What does he expect of the increase towards the proposed figure of 150? In May 2015, the labour market discrimination team was established. What are the results of this so far? This morning's press release merely indicates that it was established. In Trouw I read again that the team only gives warnings and will not impose fines. What about the team and what are the results? We know that labour market discrimination under criminal law really needs to be punished. However, we have already discussed a more persistent problem in debates, because there are many cases in criminal law that are unprovokable or criminal, even though there are unconscious prejudices or people who are rejected and think that there is discrimination because there is no clear communication. That is why I asked the Minister in spring 2015 to talk to employers and employees in order to ensure that there is more motivational rejection. On the one hand, to make companies more aware of these unconscious prejudices and, on the other hand, to ensure that people who are rejected hear why that is and may learn from it and thereby improve their labour market skills, rather than being left with the gnawing feeling that they may have been discriminated against. My final point, Mr President, because I am over my time. I'm sorry about that. The Minister also announced additional measures to combat age discrimination in autumn 2015. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u128	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that there is another class in the public gallery now, so that they can also hear that discrimination is reprehensible. That is what I think, and that is what we have laid down in legislation. It's reprehensible, and it's unacceptable. It is simply unfair to exclude people solely from their skin color, belief, sex, sexual orientation, origin, age, disability or pregnancy. Even if we find this and have incorporated it into legislation for many years now, that does not mean that everyone in our country is also acting on it. We can't force what people think and find through legislation, but we can make it discussable and keep it. The municipality of The Hague wanted to know why it is so much harder for the 140 ethnic groups in that municipality, especially for people with a Moroccan or Surinamese background, to get to work than for its native population. And it's not always easy for that at this time either. More than half of the inhabitants of a city like The Hague have a non-Western origin. It is therefore important for these municipalities to know this, just as it is important for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u129	In any case, I am pleased that a right-wing party such as the VVD fully supports Article 1 of the Constitution, but I stuck with the sentence that we cannot force people's thoughts and actions. Does this mean that Mrs Van Miltenburg is behind the Prime Minister, who says: labour market discrimination is your own problem; you have to fight? Or does Mrs Van Miltenburg agree with the SP that we need to uphold laws and the Constitution, which has been drafted in all kinds of laws and regulations, and that companies that have been guilty of discrimination must be treated in a tough way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u130	Mrs Karabulut, I agree with both the Prime Minister and you, because I have also heard the Prime Minister say at all times when he spoke about this that this is reprehensible and should be dealt with if possible. It is a tough problem, however, and the way it is handled requires a great many people, in fact everyone in society, to work for it. This is also reflected in the SCP report, which deals with the preparation of companies, but also with the question of how to influence your potential employer through your application letter. That seems to be possible by, as the SCP writes, addressing things on the basis of which you think you might be rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u131	You say that you agree with me on the need to take firm action. I like that. Can you then tell me what you have done in the cabinet over the past few years to tackle the increasing discrimination? Is there really an increase on the basis of homosexuality, age and origin? How many companies have been fined and dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u132	I agree with the questions that have been raised, in my view by Mrs Vermeij. I, too, am curious about the answers to those questions. I haven't been able to find that, but the fact that there hasn't been a conviction doesn't mean nothing happened. I've seen that there's been a lot of actions. They have not led to the desired result. I also said that this is a tough problem and that something should be expected of everyone in society to deal with it. I will deal with that later in my speech. The SCP carried out research at the request of the municipality of The Hague and found that the Hague labour market is discriminated against on the basis of origin in recruitment and selection. This is not only a serious observation, it is also stupid that this is happening. When companies in The Hague and other places in the country only recruit indigenous workers, they use this voluntarily to get talented and suitable staff. A quarter of the companies with which the SCP spoke said in those talks that they were pursuing a diverse workforce. Apparently they want one, but they do the other subconsciously. This underlines once again that we can say that everyone has equal opportunities, but unfortunately this is not yet the case in practice. That goes just as well for the Hagenees with an exotic surname as for women, people with disabilities or people with chronic illness. It seems to be in the nature of our people, and therefore also in the nature of the employers, because those are people who choose what we think we know or recognize rather than the unknown. Prejudice undoubtedly plays a role in making that choice. Combating discrimination is high on the agenda of our government, and also on the agenda of the city council of The Hague. All the actions taken to tackle discrimination vigorously have to do with... No, I'm saying that wrong. Everyone wants to tackle discrimination. We make the laws and regulations here, but the local government has the most direct contact with employers and job seekers. Local drivers are literally sitting at the table at companies and can make work discrimination directly negotiable at that table, as well as embedded prejudices and stereotyping. Local administrators are also going to do this to the job seekers with whom they have direct contact. That is also necessary, because I said during an interruption that the SCP report shows that discrimination can be removed by proactively naming your alleged disadvantage in an application and by emphasising your positive points in your application letter. I also get this wording from the SCP report. I also find it encouraging that a number of large Dutch companies have jointly established the National Integration Fund. This fund should develop methods to combat discrimination and disintegration in the workplace, not only because it has to, but also because it offers them many opportunities. Discrimination is a tough and persistent problem, for which there is no easy solution, because otherwise, of course, we would have done it a long time ago. Everyone in our country has to work with it. That is exactly the movement I see with the municipality of The Hague, and in the wake of the municipality of The Hague also with other municipalities. The companies that have joined the National Integration Fund also make that move. Discrimination is a tough and persistent problem that we must continue to name and hopefully one day we will be able to eradicate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u133	I believe that almost the entire Chamber has the same intention in tackling labour market discrimination. However, I was disappointed by one thing. Mrs Van Miltenburg interrupted once when I made a concrete proposal. Later on, Mr De Graaf said: we must leave it entirely to the companies themselves and what are we talking about with discrimination? Then the entire Chamber stood at the interrupt microphone to remind Mr De Graaf of Article 1 of the Constitution. Why is Mrs Van Miltenburg the only person to be involved, and that is not the first time in debates with the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u134	Can I make a personal statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u135	You may make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u136	Mr Van Weyenberg says that I am fine with companies being allowed to discriminate. I didn't say that. I said that we have a rule of law here, and if there is criminal discrimination, the instruments are available to enforce. Companies are allowed to select themselves. The government should not sit in the head of the one who selects. So Mr Van Weyenberg must not distort the facts in order to make his point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u137	You've made your personal statement. I now give Mrs Van Miltenburg the opportunity to answer Mr Van Weyenberg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u138	Mr Van Weyenberg regrets that I did not ask questions about Mr De Graaf's contribution. I was sorry that Mr Van Weyenberg did not answer my question in our little interrupting debate as to whether he would normally find it in a rule of law that, if you are accused of a crime, there is no need for a judicial ruling to establish it, but that measures should be taken directly. He didn't answer that question. We are all sometimes disappointed in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u139	The facts: I did answer them. I have said that it also has legal value for me if the Labour Inspectorate finds anything. I come to my question. I am concerned that as a whole we should be able to send a signal about what Mr De Graaf said here. There is no such thing as criminal or non-criminal discrimination. Discrimination is always a criminal offence. When a large part of the Chamber takes a distance from the PVV, I regret that the VVD stays still on the benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u140	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u141	I also noticed that the VVD didn't say anything about something that happened here. Mrs Van Miltenburg proudly said that it is good that there are schools that are following the debate, while here there was an embarrassing display. Mr Wilders said this week: I am not in the government, but I have enormous influence. I just notice that the VVD is running the PVV agenda, because the VVD wants to get the votes for those 42 seats. Look at the polls.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u142	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u143	Is it the VVD's strategy not to walk forward knowingly and knowingly in such cases, to win back the right-wing voters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u144	An interruption is placed if you want to ask a clarifying question. I had no need to ask a more specific question about Mr De Graaf's speech. It didn't get any clearer when others were interrupting, but that's free for them. I didn't need to say anything about it. I do need to give my opinion on labour market discrimination every time I am asked to do so. I find labour market discrimination reprehensible and I find it unfair to treat people unequally. I think you should do this where you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u145	How many motions has the VVD submitted in the last three years to tackle those who discriminate? How many motions has the VVD filed to tackle civil servants who discriminate in the government? What has the VVD done in its own constituency, at VNO-NCW and SMEs? Zero point zero! Mrs Van Miltenburg has a nice and nice story here, but in fact she supports Geert Wilders' agenda for that right...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u146	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u147	...to bring in votes. Is it true that the VVD confesses this with its mouth, but in practice knowingly drops all people who are discriminated against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u148	I distance myself from all the suggestions contained in this question. I'll leave that with the questioner. I have noticed that no one in this debate has noticed that industry itself is also taking action against labour market discrimination. For example, the National Integration Fund has been set up jointly, looking for methods of combating discrimination in the workplace. Nobody mentioned that, but I don't blame anyone. I did, because I think that is a positive development. For some people, the glass is always half empty, but for me it's half full. I believe that good things are happening, but there is still labour market discrimination in the broadest sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u149	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has requested an eight-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u150	I would like to give the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment the opportunity to respond in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr. Chairman. Discrimination, in whatever form, is unacceptable and unjust and is not prohibited for nothing in our Constitution and in various other laws. The rule of law guarantees that you will not be treated differently because of your gender, origin, belief or orientation. Unfortunately, we cannot say that, because it is laid down in the law, it is being adhered to in practice. Discrimination is very common. We all know examples of this. In the first term of the Chamber, we have heard several poignant examples of discrimination, in this case on the labour market. We are trying to reduce this discrimination in many ways. We do this by pointing out the prohibitions, by trying to reduce prejudices and by putting companies that handle diversity in the spotlight. This is important, for example when you think about the young people who are faced with labour market discrimination. It is extremely frustrating for them that they cannot show their talent to society. Sometimes it breaks into those young people, and we shouldn't want that. Just as frustrating as it is for people to be rejected only at their age and not have the chance to show what they can contribute. Many questions have been asked in the debate. What else could we do? How effective are the things we do? Is there not a possibility of being stricter against forms of labour market discrimination? It is right that these questions have been asked. I believe that we have a duty to see whether the measures we have taken have achieved a great deal of progress. However, I do not have the illusion that it can only be solved by the government. We have had the action plan on labour discrimination for two years now, but it is an illusion to think that we could have solved the problem in those two years. If you really want to solve the problem, then first the prejudices that affect everyone but which play a role, especially in the unconscious discrimination, will have to disappear. We cannot enforce this by law, but we can try to promote it. It is of the utmost importance that the prohibition of discrimination is not only enshrined in the law, but also embraced by society. The 2014 Labour Discrimination Action Plan includes some 48 actions focusing on the different elements of labour market discrimination. These actions concern the preventive side, the non-preventive side and the prejudice side. Let me start with the diversity charter that Mr Heerma asked for. In the meantime, there are 50 employers, including a large part of the government, who have signed. By signing, these organisations promise to actively promote diversity in the workplace and to complete it with a concrete plan. That promise was made quickly, but you also have to fill it out with a concrete plan. Is it possible to reach the target number of 150 organisations? Yeah, that should work. The deadline we had set for this is still running for a while, so that should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u152	Before the Minister responds to the specific questions asked, one more general point. I fully agree with the Minister that discrimination and prejudice are not easy phenomena, let alone that we could eliminate them in one blow, or in four years. However, we can make the most of this. Nevertheless, after four years, I have to say that I do not yet see in the distance that companies are being treated very hard. That causes the displeasure, the impatience and the feeling of injustice. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u153	I share that with Mrs Karabulut. I share the impatience and displeasure of those examples of discrimination. I will immediately address the question of whether we should not strengthen the current instruments further in order to achieve more. I understand very well what Mrs Karabulut is saying. No one, certainly not Mrs Karabulut, claimed that we could solve it at once, but we must do our utmost. I do. I would like to start the debate on whether we could do more with the instruments currently in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u154	That is the second point that we are going to have to discuss immediately. Can the Minister also comment on the first point? Jobseekers who are entitled to benefits are being dealt with very hard if they do not comply with the rules, but should this not apply twice as hard to companies? After all, they have an important role to play. Does the Minister agree that this should be the starting point and the aim? If so, can he promise us results in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u155	I very much share the starting point. Those rules are there for a reason. The law applies to every Dutchman and therefore also to companies that make their money in the Netherlands. So you have to stick to that. So it must also have consequences if you don't comply with the law. Then there is the second question. Can I promise it'll lead to convictions? I can't. That has to do with how our criminal law works. It is also complicated to compare criminal law with the rules for granting benefits. I understand that rhetorically very well and from the point of view of justice I understand it very well. The application of criminal law is therefore complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u156	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u157	No, Mrs. Karabulut, we're doing the interruptions in half. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u158	I tried to respond seriously to Mrs Karabulut's question. I think I'm very much in agreement with her. I would like nothing more than to grill companies guilty of criminal discrimination. I will look at what else can be done on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u159	Mr Öztürk also wants to ask a question. In their first term, all Members have asked a lot of questions to the Minister. He's just been working on his response for a few minutes. Perhaps it would be a good idea for him to have the opportunity to answer the questions first, so that Members do not again ask the same questions in the event of interruption. You have an interruption about something else, Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u160	No, on this point, which is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u161	Then I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u162	The minister says he'd like to grill such businesses. I call him a company that can or may be grilled. The company Yacht has been convicted by the College of Human Rights. That company has just discriminated and has a vacancy for the Department of Defense. What's the Minister gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u163	I think I also share Mr Öztürk's desire to tackle companies hard, but here you come straight to the distinction between the College of Human Rights and the criminal court. Mr Öztürk says this company has been convicted. So it's not. The College of Human Rights has found discrimination but has no position to condemn. That may be frustrating, but that is the actual situation as it is. A criminal conviction of this company would allow us to exclude it from public procurement. The new contracts with temporary agency organisations provide for such a provision. That is not possible with statements from the College of Human Rights. In his speech, Mr Van Weyenberg suggested that such a judgment should be taken into account in certain circumstances. Let me say this to the Chamber: I do feel this need, but so far the more recent changes in procurement law based on European law, the possibilities for doing so are absent or very limited. I'd love to take another look at it. Mrs Van Miltenburg also rightly pointed out that there is a demand for criminal convictions before you exclude companies from public procurement. That is why I cannot do that with the company Mr Öztürk mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u164	We have taken earlier measures here in the Chamber regarding administrative detention without anyone being in court. This has already been done on other subjects. Where the Minister has been able to make little progress on this issue over the past three years, and he himself points out that he considers this to be an important point, my question is whether he is prepared to come up with a proposal to "name" and "shame" this company and other companies that have done so willingly and knowingly. The photo of a shoplifter is posted on the website. Why shouldn't that be possible in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u165	Naming-and-shaming is another element, which has also been asked for, among others by Mr Heerma. You can sometimes point out to companies that do not behave properly and thus also make it visible to society that you are not satisfied with how they behave. On the basis of the Fake Constructions Act adopted last year, the inspection can under circumstances name and name companies. I intend to do that. That question was also asked in connection with the Wedding article. This cannot be done by everyone, but the exclusion of public procurement goes on. The lawyers I have consulted so far say that if you do not have such a conviction, you cannot do so. Once again, I think that we should look up the border together, not to tease companies, but to make it clear that this is also a moral frontier. People whom we ask to make efforts, not to give up the courage, to persevere, sometimes to be very pleased, must also feel that the government is behind them when they are treated unfairly. That motivates me very much, but we must take into account the limitations of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u166	I would ask the Minister to keep the response to interruptions a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u167	It's getting more and more complicated for me to determine what the Minister is actually saying. On the one hand, he says that he actually wants to continue with the tender. Maybe it wasn't necessary to have a court ruling for it at all. He's consulted all kinds of lawyers for it, and they all say, no, you really have to have a court ruling. I understand that, because in a rule of law, it's necessary when it comes to a crime. On the other hand, the Minister still wants to look further. Is he gonna look until he finds a lawyer who says he can? Or does he admit that this is just the border, that there just needs to be a court ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u168	I am going to try to put it in such a way that the confusion with Mrs Van Miltenburg does not increase. At the moment, I cannot exclude companies from public procurement without such a conviction. And it's been found that those convictions aren't there. That means you can't perform sanctioning at this point. Is it worthless? No, criminal law is not there to have as many criminal cases as possible, but to make it clear that there is a standard that has meaning. The preventive effect, including of the new contracts, should not be underestimated. Companies are not so happy that they are at risk. Criminal law is there not only to try to get people convicted of murder, but also to prevent people from killing each other. I listened very carefully in the first period to the speakers who said that a criminal conviction is very difficult, especially from companies. We have seen criminal convictions, but they have always been about individuals, for example an individual HR employee of whom we have seen, without looking into his head, that he is breaking the law. To then attribute this to the whole company, is another step further. It is also understandable that this cannot be done without reason. If a very large company has a rotten apple that behaves badly, you can't just attribute it to the whole company. It's always dangerous to do your whole argument through interruptions, but I'd like to give you a hint of the veil. I am quite sensitive to the plea to do a little more with those statements by the College of Human Rights, but I would remind the Chamber that the lawyers I consulted told me that the exclusion of public contracts would not be possible without a conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u169	I am going to listen to the rest of the Minister's speech, but at least this answer has not given me any more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u170	I find this an interesting subject. Now that the Minister has lifted a tip from the veil, I would like to ask you about this. Mr Van Weyenberg has put forward a concrete proposal to ensure that statements by the College lead to exclusion. In my view, the Minister does not have to investigate this, because that is not possible. Nor should we force the College into that position; I do not think the College wants that at all. There's a sympathetic question behind it, though. I'm asking the Minister to elaborate a little more on that. Are rulings by the College, but also by the European Court of Human Rights, currently playing a role in the package of tackling labour market discrimination and combating unconscious prejudices? If not, how could these statements play an explicit role, for example in the enforcement role of the inspection, without being directly linked to exclusion? I am much less enthusiastic about the latter. I find the thought behind it interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u171	They do play a role. There is permanent contact between the college and, for example, the inspection. Signals can be shared. They can also lead the inspection to examine the policy of such an organisation. Of course they play a role. They play a role in the social debate, but also in the implementation of the policy. I also respond to the question that is also on the agenda, namely whether we can do more. Mrs Van Miltenburg finds that confusing. I'm not convinced right now, or I would have done it by now. But I would point out that I am sensitive to the input of Mr Van Weyenberg, for example, in the first term. I'm quite willing to look into that. This will indeed not lead to the exclusion of public contracts. On this point, the lawyers state that a criminal conviction is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u172	There have been discussions over the last few years on cases in which the European Court or the College has delivered rulings, after which, unfortunately, the image of a company or a public organisation is often ignored. The SP Group has recently asked questions about the trumpet player in the Defense Department who was excluded because of diabetes. I think it is worth considering whether such statements could play a more prominent role. In the plan, you barely see this. The minister says they do play a role in practice. I want to know more clearly what this role is and how it can be increased, regardless of Mr Van Weyenberg's specific suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u173	I understand this. The College itself indicates that it wishes to maintain that low threshold and thus not seek the enforceability at the individual level. In general, his statements are followed up. They have a strong effect, precisely because they can also cause reputational damage. When the college says that organisations have not done well, they are generally inclined to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u174	Mrs Karabulut, I give you the floor, but I have noticed that a lot of questions have been asked and the Minister has to answer. I assume that this is about this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u175	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I find this debate very enlightening. The Minister is actually saying here today that companies guilty of discrimination get away with it. There's a verdict, but there's no fine, there's no hard-on. Through criminal law this is impossible or very difficult, if I hear the Minister like this, but by giving the Labour Inspectorate more powers and having the Human Rights College work together, the Minister could, through administrative law, impose higher fines and actually deal with these companies. They're just getting away with discrimination now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u176	I will deal in a moment with the role of the Labour Inspectorate and the possibility of sanctioning it. I think this is a good thing. The D66 and SP groups have made a good contribution to this approach, so that now a separate section of the Labour Inspectorate is monitoring this very closely. I very much agree with Mrs Karabulut that companies should not get away with it. The question now is whether criminal law in its present form is sufficient to enforce it. That is why I am looking for a combination of measures, i.e. take-and-shaming where possible, even if this has not been done now, to make it clear in contracts that it cannot remain there in the event of a conviction. We will have to have all these elements side by side in order to bring about a change for those who deliberately discriminate and for prejudice to disappear from those who do so unconsciously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u177	I find it harsh and it is unacceptable that no company has been dealt with in the last three years. I want the Minister to use his influence to change everything so that the Labour Inspectorate gets those teeth and can go after companies. He does have a direct influence on that. Is the Minister prepared to come up with such an approach very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u178	Mr President, I have already mentioned the role of the Labour Inspectorate. Perhaps it might even be useful to start answering the questions about this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u179	That seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u180	The information campaign on labour market discrimination will begin in the second quarter. Mr. Heerma asked for this. It is part of the general campaign against discrimination. We have waited for the greater story of the Minister of the Interior, because it is the first block. I follow the monitor national experiments with anonymous application, because that gives us an overall picture of the effects and the results of that way of applying. The uncomfortable feeling of anonymous application has also been discussed in the first term. It is indeed addressing symptoms, but it may be worth it, because we can then do something with them to remove the causes. The actions set out in the Action Plan will be continued and monitored. Every once in a while, I report on the state of implementation. It is precisely in tackling youth unemployment that efforts are being made to combat labour market discrimination. The government is working with five cities and their partners to combat high youth unemployment, for example among migrant young people. With various measures, we focus on bridging negative imagery when looking for an internship or a learning job. These measures are raising awareness, providing a warm introduction through the network and getting to know young people as employees by allowing them to gain short work experience. At the end of the year, we will present a new overview of the progress of all actions in the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination. Ultimately, it remains a joint responsibility of the government, employers and employees, and the educational institutions. That's how it's felt. It is also recognised in the discussions I have with the social partners on this subject. But the ultimate success of such an approach depends on it, because when everyone makes it important, it becomes important and you can achieve results. I called it diversity charter. There have now been 75 agreements with employers in the context of the city deal on youth unemployment to bridge that bridge and reduce that distance. I mentioned the new window contract with Start People. The Employment Discrimination Team made 80 company visits in 2015. Three companies found that the policy did not work. The inspection works in such a way that the company will then have the opportunity to recover and so will those companies. This does not mean that the inspection cannot impose fines, because, as with other inspection visits, it is first possible to improve his life by adjusting the policy. If this does not happen then a sanctioning action can be taken. So it leads to a repeat visit. This year 200 visits are planned by this section of the Labour Inspectorate. It shall be risk-driven where possible and using information that may come from the College of Human Rights or from other sources. The aim is to identify which companies have not adequately aligned their policies. You are required to have policies based on occupational health legislation to reduce psychosocial labour costs, and that also means that you have to combat labour market discrimination in your policy. The inspection looked at this and in most cases it did not lead to clues, but it did in three companies. Mr President, I see a rush on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u181	I thought Mr Van Weyenberg was first, but I see his hand gesture: Mr Heerma may first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u182	In an article in Trouw a spokesperson for the inspection was quoted this morning, indicating that the team mainly has a warning role and that no fines will be paid. Can the Minister explain in more detail how his reply and his explanation of what is happening relate to that primary warning role and the fact that no fines are being imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u183	My answer here is what applies. It is true that a fine is never paid immediately. It is always considered whether or not the policy is adequate. If not, you'll get a chance to fix it. If that does not happen then there are simply sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u184	As far as the Minister is concerned, therefore, there is no primary warning role. It's actually about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u185	It's about complying with the law. This is monitored by the inspection, because the task of the inspection is precisely to monitor compliance with the various labour laws. The task of the inspection is to monitor compliance with the various labour laws. There's always a warning element in that. If the inspection comes and finds that you do not comply with the law in some respects, you should do so. That's not noncommittal. You can say that it is a warning role, but companies know that it can lead to sanctions if they do nothing about, for example, the safety of a scaffolding or if they do not organise the policy in accordance with the law. That's the part that's got the inspection. I do not see why we should not use the inspection on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u186	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u187	Mr Heerma asked a little more specifically about the diversity charter. It is not just about: are we now achieving the goals of 150 companies in three years? But also: should we be satisfied with that now? What's in it for now? I'm kind of excited about this. The aim is to get more sustainable measures in practice in companies and organisations, for the different forms of diversity, I would add. The management commits itself to that objective and signs a signature for it. It is a powerful tool of self-regulation, because it can lead to a real organisational change. When I look at the signatories of the first hour, for example Asito and Shell, you see that it actually starts after that. It must then be converted into a plan and the top of the organization that signed it must ensure that it also has meaning in middle management. For example, the objective may be to employ 500 people with disabilities within a certain period of time. It could be about getting a label for more social dealing with diversity. It may also be about increasing the diversity in the practice of criminal law. They are translations that can then, in reality, get their meaning for applicants, or for the people who work at such an organisation. I believe that this is important, not in place of other things, but in addition. IBM and the national police are also actively implementing the promise they have made by signing their signatures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u188	Mrs Karabulut has another interruption. I'll ask for a little self-limitation. It's the third interruption in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u189	You know that I am not really self-regulation, Mr President, but you can impose rules on me. I'm just trying to be decent about that. Was the Minister finished with the "Work Inspectorate" block? After all, I have asked many more questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u190	I'll come back to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u191	Then I have one more question about that diversity charter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u192	So much for self-limitation!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u193	What does the government do? What do we do ourselves? What about diversity, people with disabilities, women and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u194	That question was asked in the first period and it will really be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u195	Okay, but I'm asking because the minister was working on cubes. Perhaps he can answer the question directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u196	Perhaps it is a good thing that we give the Minister an opportunity to reply. If things are unclear in those answers, you can come up with an interruption, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u197	It is always incredibly difficult to lead such a debate. You make a start, then there are a lot of interruptions and then everyone says: how long does it take for the answers to come! We're trying to get through that in a good way. This was not a criticism, by the way. I'm getting to the "hr-managers" section. In the information campaign on labour market discrimination, we also explicitly focus on the HR managers. That's very important. A campaign aimed at everyone is nice, but of course it is also important that HR managers become aware of the fact that sometimes, unconsciously, they are led by prejudice. There's a profit to be made. Part of the part campaign is to look at the recruitment and selection phase, to see how you can identify possible prejudices and then what you can do about them. A specially developed toolbox, a toolbox, will provide employers with concrete tools to ensure that prejudices play a less important role during the application process. That's important, because it's really about the practice of recruiting and selecting every day. We see the examples of obvious discrimination, which occasionally emerge. But much more often it is a matter of the subconscious. That does not mean, however, that there is nothing you can do about it. Just by providing concrete tools to companies, you can make your HR department aware of the role that prejudice plays and you can solve part of the problem. The PVV asked to remove the government's signature under the diversity charter. The PVV has sketched a kind of picture that leads to diversity in murder and manslaughter. I don't think so. It is very good for companies and organisations to explore their diversity and try to do more about it. So I'm definitely not getting that signature out of there. With the charter, not only companies, but also governments commit themselves to the pursuit of diversity. Creating a culture of inclusive employership is essential to harness the talents of society, but also to ensure that people get a fair chance and that they find a job based on their achievements and talents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u198	Mr Van Weyenberg, I hope you are not going to ask a question that you have already asked in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u199	The Minister points out the toolbox for employers, an important tool. With this you may be able to extract a lot of prejudices from selection procedures, perhaps even unconscious ones. We received a letter from the Human Rights College stating that what really works very well, as research has shown, are training on those unconscious preferences or automatisms in human action. Because we're all human. Is this big in that toolbox, too? Would the Minister also like to discuss this issue explicitly with employers, if it is not or not? This seems to me to be making a great deal of profit for anyone who does not deliberately discriminate, but still subconsciously selects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u200	Agreed. That's an important part of it. We also show employers what we can get and how we can make use of it. It must always be tailored to an organisation, but it is indeed an important part. We also organise that the various participants in the diversity charter exchange their experiences again and learn from each other how they did it in their organisation and what that has resulted. Organisations indicate that this has also improved the functioning of the organisation, that you can get more quality in the workplace if you are consciously doing this. Mr Van Weyenberg's point is very important. If you show them how it works and tell people how it works, they often do better after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u201	It is very nice that this happens to the companies that have signed the diversity charter. I'm just guessing that these companies are extra open to it, too, because otherwise they wouldn't have signed. Is this also widely brought to the attention of all those companies and employers who may not think about this on a daily basis and who have not signed the charter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u202	Sure. That was the first part of my answer. Offering that toolbox with a range of possibilities is intended for all companies who want to do something with it. This finds surprisingly much positive resonance. Companies are here... Mr Elias leaves the Chamber fetching, I see. Oh, no! Oh, thank God! Companies are very excited about this because it's practical, because it's not about debt and fine, but things that you can organize differently in your own process, so that your organization will function better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u203	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u204	Sorry for the misinterpretation of the sound that Mr Elias made! Mrs. Karabulut asked about the government. It is agreed that all departments sign the diversity charter for themselves. By the end of this year, all departments must have done so. This means that all these departments have to make their own plans and make their own promises about the improvements they want to make. This has great value for increasing diversity within the government; I agree with Mrs Karabulut. That could be a lot better than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u205	The Minister knows that we in the Chamber want to be informed and to monitor progress with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u206	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u207	It's good to have all the departments sign up. Hopefully this will finally give us a very diverse workforce in the Empire within a few years. When can I see the Minister's overall action plan with concrete objectives? I am afraid that in ten years' time we will find ourselves once again signing a charter, but nothing has changed since then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u208	Under the previous cabinet, diversity policy was declared taboo. I think it is very good that the departments are now working on this again with enthusiasm. I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut that it is good to include the Chamber in this and to show what we are doing. Let me agree that the next progress report on the whole subject will include this section. Then I can show you how far we are with the diversity policy of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u209	When?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u210	In the second half of this year regular progress reports on tackling labour market discrimination will be presented. That's where I could get this involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u211	Yeah, I'd love a concrete plan with goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u212	D66 asked: how do we deal with companies, with our contracts and with our procurement? It has indeed taken two years, which is a long time, and I am not at all happy with the fact that the 2014 agreement, namely to include in the contracts the fact that criminal convictions no longer allow work, is to be properly translated into law. It's not that it doesn't matter. However, you have to sail between quite a lot of cliffs to do so in a good way. This does have meaning, because it is the subject of conversation, because it goes around, because organisations are aware of it and because it increases the vulnerability of large broadcasting organisations. If it does happen, it can cost them an incredible amount of money and the message is therefore: do not accept a discriminatory request anymore. However, it has taken a long time and it shows that moving forward is even more difficult if possible. The model agreements of the Empire now contain the passages. The opinions that led to this were published in October 2015 and brought to the attention of the public through a newsletter. This is a specific website of Economic Affairs with the aim of professionalising procurement with all public authorities. It's open to the public. In this way, we are also trying to make the buyer's side aware of this instrument and its significance. We are trying to allow this to take place in procurement and procurement, as it happens. I come to the difficult point of no longer doing business with companies on which the College of Human Rights has considered that discrimination has taken place. This can only be done if there is an irrevocable criminal conviction, not on the basis of suspicions. This is the result of the Procurement Act and the underlying European legislation. Proportionality and subsidiarity are important elements in this. This means that such a judgment cannot be so qualified. A ruling of the College is a recommendation and is not sufficient to be seen as a binding ruling. Moreover, that does not mean that the judgments of the College cannot be taken into account in all kinds of ways, but I repeat this because this has already been said in an interrupting debate. I have already said something about fines and sanctions. On the number of companies, I can say that in 2015, it was 80, three of which were insufficient with a chance to recover. This is interesting: in the selection of companies visited by the Labour Inspectorate, the team takes into account signs of discrimination. These signals may come from the Human Rights College. ADVs, anti-discrimination facilities and police or media reports may also lead to more targeted visits to the inspection. In addition, the team mainly visits larger companies, i.e. companies with more than 100 employees. We see in studies that most discrimination is reported there and the most effective and efficient outcome of such a visit can be expected. What about taking and shaming? That was also addressed in Trouw's article this morning. This possibility has been introduced by law with the Law's approach to bogus constructions. We started with the Wav, the Foreign Labour Act, because it is relatively easier. A greater number of facts can be seen in this context. At a later date, I'll add the Arbo Act to that. This part is covered by the labour law. Working conditions legislation requires companies to pursue policies to prevent harassment or discrimination at work. So that's what we're gonna do. I can't do that right now. With the Law's approach to bogus constructions, where the Chamber has rightly said: if we are going to "name" and "shame" companies, then that must be done carefully. An AMvB has been created for this purpose, so that we can first of all address the category that makes people work for themselves illegally. The following category is labour law. We're gonna do that. It's just part of the teeth show you have to do it sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u213	The Minister says we will. I support the minister, but the last time I tried to look this up on the website, it wasn't there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u214	I'll see how you can see it. On 1 July 2015, the law came into force. Then came the regulations to make the Wav. It must first be operational and have its meaning. Next comes the labour law legislation. For Mr Van Weyenberg, I'm going to find out where he can follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u215	I would very much like to, because we have tried this once around the budget debate. We called the Labour Inspectorate when it turned out I couldn't find the list on the website, despite the fact that the base was already there. If the Minister can say that in second term, that's fine. Otherwise, I'd like to hear it differently. A careful answer is better than a half answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u216	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u217	Will that include the names of companies on which the Human Rights College has ruled? I read in the letter to the Chamber that the Labour Inspectorate and Social Affairs are going to see what they can do with those statements, if there is a press release. I didn't get much of it, but it seems to me that these companies end up on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u218	No, the Labour Inspectorate can only name companies that have been visited by the inspection. It is the role of the media to further spread messages. The Labour Inspectorate can, on the basis of the Law approach, indicate which companies have been identified by the inspection itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u219	We are now talking about labour discrimination. The Minister himself notes that there are enormous limitations. Then we have a body that makes statements and provides information to the Ministry and the Labour Inspectorate. Is the Minister saying that he can't, can't and will not do anything with it now and in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u220	I'm not saying there's nothing we can do about it. Mrs Karabulut asked whether an opinion of the Human Rights College would be sufficient to be on such a list. The answer to that is no. Are we gonna do something with that? Yes. I just indicated that the Labour Inspectorate is going to visit, for example on the basis of signals from the Human Rights College. This exchange of information is crucial. The Labour Inspectorate can then find that something is not right and publish it by name and by name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u221	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u222	No, Mrs. Karabulut, we're doing the interruptions in half. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u223	I'm sure there's gonna be another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u224	I don't know yet. Maybe all the way to the end. I'm gonna make a little bit of a pace right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u225	I'm gonna see who's right. Shouldn't there be a separate hotline at the inspection? There is an anti-discrimination provision for a reason. Anyone who feels discriminated against can turn to such a facility that can assist the person and, if necessary, refer to the Human Rights College or to the judge. Notifications can also be made directly to the Human Rights College. That is not an easy option for nothing. People like that. You can easily put a case there to see whether it is discrimination or not. It is then up to the inspection to maintain intensive contacts with the college so that it can make use of them. Isn't it time for more inspection powers? The current powers are derived from the Working Conditions Act. However, they apply to workers and not to the gate. That problem has rightly been identified. The assessment of individual cases in the case of recruitment and selection cannot therefore be carried out by the inspection, unless you would find that there is something in the company's policy that is contrary to the law. The inspection may address individual discriminatory situations in the issuing sense. It does not have the power to enforce it, but if it finds things that cannot be sanctioned under the Working Conditions Act, but which are not acceptable, it will do something with it. In business selection, we take into account signals from the ADVs and the Human Rights College, as well as signals from police and media sources. At the moment, however, there are no possibilities at the time of the inspection to act sanctioningly in an individual case of someone who has been wrongly refused an application, if you could already prove it. In that case, the course remains to the Human Rights College or, if you want a binding ruling, the civil court. I'm not going to discuss all the different government parts and their contributions with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u226	Are you almost at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u227	I think I've had 80% of the questions. Mr Van Weyenberg explicitly asked what the situation is now with regard to applying anonymously. A number of cities, based on lessons from national and European experience, have launched or intend to apply anonymously, whether or not combined with competence-based recruitment and selection. I find these local initiatives very interesting. I maintain close contact with the municipalities with these initiatives. As promised during the budgetary procedure, I will monitor them, so that you get an overview of the advantages and disadvantages and the possibilities of applying anonymously. This is without prejudice to the uncomfortable feeling I have, because I think people with their first and last names should have a fair chance. Nevertheless, it is interesting to see what the initiatives yield. When will the Chamber hear more about that? The longest-term initiative ends on 1 July. Then we can pick up the net and bring together and aggregate the final results of the various initiatives. Then I can send the Chamber a stand-in: what have we seen in it, what was effective and what are the lessons you can learn? In addition, I've had a quick scan run to see what's already available about applying anonymously. The result can also be found on the Radar website and can be consulted by anyone. It is a first short look at what we now know about applying anonymously. It is interesting to properly assess the practical initiatives when they are completed. D66 asks to what extent collective agreements deal with this issue. Last autumn we looked at collective agreements on diversity. We have focused on the extent to which social partners make agreements that affect diversity and to what extent the issue of discrimination is also addressed. The results show that there is quite a lot of constant attention to the issue of diversity. Both in 2010 and 2015 approximately 80% of collective agreements included agreements on diversity. In addition, there is an increase in the number of agreements on objectives. For example, in 2015 more quantitative agreements were reached on the employment rate of target groups than in the previous period: 66% in 2015 versus 37% in 2010. The study was made available to the Chamber with the transmission of the new National Action Programme against Discrimination. This also reflected the request to look into it made by Mr Van Weyenberg on 30 June 2014. Is there going to be a new wide-ranging SCP study? No, not at this point. We had the SCP conduct such an investigation into labour discrimination, which was presented to the Chamber in September. We are mainly working now to try to combat this phenomenon. I have already mentioned the various parts of it. There is hardly anyone left to deny that this is a problem and that it exists. Such a review does not seem to me to be the top priority at the moment. The Labour Party asked for the implementation of the Jadnansing motion to organise a final approach to the formation of professional practice. It is important that internships and the provision of traineeships are part of the quality agreements made by the Ministry of Education with schools and MBO institutions and that schools receive additional funding for this. The responsibility lies with different parties: the younger self, the school and the business community. The Foundation Collaboration Vocational Education Business Life (SBB) has the legal task of ensuring the availability of sufficient places in each region. The Minister for Education will inform the Chamber of this matter in a letter in the spring and can therefore refer to the motion. The PVV has a photo of volunteers in a nursing home who play old Dutch games with elderly people in that nursing home by mistake as for paid work. That is the kind of work that was previously unpaid and that has to be done by volunteers. I am sure that Mr De Graaf would have been as enthusiastic as I had been there. While some of those elderly people cheated on the old Dutch games, it was fun, it was good and it was nice that people volunteered to make up for the atmosphere in that nursing home. So I do not see very well what the problem is, and I do not fully see the link with discrimination in the labour market. The PVV also suspects that people are discriminated against because they are not Muslims. If so, people must immediately file a complaint, because every person, every Dutch person, every person in the Netherlands, has the right to equal treatment in equal cases. No reason can ever be an acceptable basis to discriminate against anyone, not even faith or the absence of a faith. It's not about the distinction between a snake and an eel. It's about an unjustified distinction. I liked hearing the warm defense of the rule of law sound. There are possibilities for every Dutch person to rely on them. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman. You were right, there was no more interruption from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u228	Thank you, Minister. No, Mr Öztürk, we are moving on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u229	But I didn't ask any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u230	But I've actually noticed that we're going to the second term. I give you the opportunity to ask a short question, to the point, not to make a whole speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u231	Mr President, I have listened to you and I have been waiting for the end of the Minister's story, so I assume I will have the space. The Minister publishes almost every year a list of suspicious youth homes and mosques that he believes are not doing well. Why doesn't he go ahead and come up with names of companies and civil servants who discriminate? Isn't this a double size? Youth centres and mosques that are not doing well are being groomed and shamed, which do appear in the newspapers, on the radio and on TV, but companies and officials who should be discriminated against by the judge should be condemned, we should wait for that trial, but no one has been convicted for three years!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u232	Mr Öztürk seems to be confusing a number of things. I don't publish lists of mosques and juvenile quarters suspected of anything. In this way, the justification of the question is a bit out of date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u233	The Minister has indicated several youth centres in the media in a negative way. Anyway, I'll ask my last question about something else. A few months ago, we mentioned Minister Asscher as Minister of Unemployment, because 100,000 unemployed were added during his policy period, including through discrimination. A month later, the Minister of Labour announced the same headline to the Dutch Minister of Labour. Today we call him the Minister of Accepting Discrimination, because he too, together with his party, has accepted anonymous application.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u234	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u235	How can this minister, with his origins, accept that people should abandon their name, origin and religion in order to get a job in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u236	I do know the free Netherlands. I even subscribe to it; I think I'm one of the last. I think it's a nice magazine. This was a little early, because you can see that unemployment is falling fortunately. We are finally at the level of 2012 and it has to be even lower. New figures came up this morning. That's very double in the week of the drama of V&D. At the same time, it's a good thing. There's gonna be jobs again. We're at 574,000 now. That's still too much, but it's heading in the right direction. I found the second part of the argument that led somewhere to a question very curious. Mr Öztürk says that I should not accept, with my origins, that people do not get a job on the basis of their origins. I'm not. I made it quite clear in my speech that discrimination is not acceptable. That is why I oppose discrimination in the labour market and anywhere else. I said about applying anonymously that I have an uncomfortable feeling because it's about the symptom. Ultimately, we must move towards a society in which people with full pride of their last name and identity get a fair chance based on what they can and their talent. To know that this is not the case now, it might be useful to look at what these experiments are doing. That is why I undertook to follow these experiments closely during the budgetary procedure with the Chamber, to see what lessons we can learn from them and to share them with the Chamber. After July 1st, I'll just pull it in and see what we can learn from it. Sometimes, on the road to an ideal society, you have to be prepared to take unorthodox measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u237	We are now going to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u238	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and the remark that he is going to visit the border. I have three motions, so I'll try to make the most of it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the Procurement Act companies can only be excluded from public procurement after a final criminal conviction for discrimination;]] [[Whereas labour market discrimination is very difficult to prove in criminal matters, while labour market discrimination is common;]] [[Whereas the new procurement directive may provide more scope;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how grounds for exclusion due to demonstrable labour market discrimination can be extended in the Procurement Act, while also looking at a greater role for the SZW and the Human Rights College,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that labour market discrimination is still too common;]] [[Whereas labour discrimination undermines equal opportunities for all, regardless of religion, colour, origin, sex, age or sexual orientation;]] [[Whereas the implementation of a large number of announced actions by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is lagging behind;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its approach to labour market discrimination and to report to the Court before 1 May 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Vermeij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-693]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Karabulut and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-694]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u239	My final motion concerns something that we have perhaps considered too little today but which is very important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 45% of all pregnant women and young mothers are exposed to pregnancy discrimination;]] [[having noted that in 2016 the College of Human Rights is investigating pregnancy discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Human Rights College, to develop proposals to reduce pregnancy discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Vermeij and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-695]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u240	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of young people of migrant origin in the Netherlands are still severely discriminated against with a different colour and religion. For three years, the Minister has supposedly done his best, but according to the figures, hundreds of thousands of young people of migrant origin are still unemployed because they wear a headscarf, have a beard or stand up for their religion. The Minister does not dare to take tough measures. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the figures for cases of discrimination are growing despite the policy pursued;]] [[calls on the Government to set clear targets for the prevention of discrimination and to account for them by the end of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-696]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u241	I would also like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UNG shares the standard clauses and texts to prevent cooperation with parties convicted of discrimination with its members;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultation with the Interprovincial Consultation and the Union of Water Councils, with the aim that these associations also bring these standard clauses and texts to the attention of their members,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-697]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u242	Mrs Vermeij had a clarifying question on the first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u243	That's right. I am always prepared to consider measures to solve this persistent problem, not only for young people with a migrant background, or whatever you want to call it, but also for older people, pregnant women and so on. You are looking for targets to prevent discrimination. How am I supposed to imagine that? This is a problem which is not easily expressed in figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u244	We have the figures of anti-discrimination agencies, figures that have risen in recent years. We compared the figures from when the minister started with those from today. Despite the 42 measures taken by this PvdA Minister, there is even more discrimination in the Netherlands. I want to check this minister with targets. He keeps wonderful stories, he can explain everything fantastic, but when you look at the actions, you see he's letting it go. In order to make that tangible and to ensure that this minister effectively tackles discrimination, we need targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u245	The conclusion can only be that we simply do not have those figures, because there is incredibly much discrimination without knowing it, without going to trial and without being convicted. We need a package of measures to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u246	There are figures from anti-discrimination agencies. Let's start with that, let's keep this minister in mind that he's bringing those numbers down. If there are figures in other areas, this should also be possible in this area. This minister likes to have Muslim youths investigated. Let us now investigate in depth the non-registered discrimination in order to confront and assess this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u247	Mr. Chairman. It is rather disconcerting that we should conclude that, although we consider combating labour market discrimination to be very important and more and more people are being banned because of their gender, origin, disability or sexual orientation, in recent years there have been zero fines imposed on companies guilty of discrimination. There's nothing going to come of a hard-ass approach. However, even the government does not yet have a diversity policy. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas discrimination in the labour market leads to unemployment and exclusion and is contrary to equal treatment;]] [[Considering that discrimination on the labour market, both on accession and on the workplace and on exit, needs to be addressed vigorously and the SZW Inspection should play an important role in this;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals as soon as possible to increase the powers and instruments of the SZW Inspection to combat all forms of labour market discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-698]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u248	The Minister has announced that he will make a blacklist of discriminatory companies. Can he at least ensure that the rulings of the College of Human Rights are included in that list of public authorities? I do not understand how, after all the criminal law amendments and laws, we will ever be able to get a blacklist if companies that have been shown to have discriminated against are not on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u249	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of comments on the first deadline. I also loved the fact that there were school classes in the public gallery who could see how it works in such a room. If you stand up for humanity, humanity and equality, and do not try to pursue the imposed equality of people, you are the goat. Fine, they've seen that, too. Did I call for discrimination in the first term? Full-bodied: no. But I do think that people should be able to be human and be able to continue to distinguish between phenomena and things they see in a normal way. Because that's perfectly normal. For the rest, I didn't say anything wrong with that. I thank the Minister for his answers. A blacklist of companies goes a little too far for me. We have the rule of law and we have enforcement. Let us assume that, above all, and simply close the borders and reduce the burden so that there is more work for everyone. Then this problem will also resolve itself, and we will no longer have to have this kind of derivative discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u250	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his careful first-term response. I had prepared a few motions, but I do not submit them because the substance of the debate for the Labour Party is contained in a motion that I tabled together with Mr Van Weyenberg. That core concerns the inconvenience that labour market discrimination cannot, cannot and is punishable, and is not proportionate to Article 1 of our Constitution. However, it remains extremely complicated to get it proven and convicted. We see this both in civil matters, which are hardly getting off the ground, and in the case of the Labour Inspectorate. Mrs Karabulut in particular raised that last point: not only the warning, but also the final fine is often left behind. So we need to find the edges together in this house, if we're going to get to this phenomenon and really get to it. That is exactly what the Minister has announced. This motion seeks to do so and I have therefore wholeheartedly supported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u251	Nevertheless, Mrs Vermeij has made me curious. What motions has she considered submitting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u252	They related to a somewhat tighter curriculum around, for example, thehr departments of companies, in order to make diversity policy really part of the training there. I know there are a number of actions for that, but I think it starts with the people who are going to select. One of the motions related to that. However, because we have also touched another core in this debate, I found it more relevant to wait for the actions that I am convinced we have already put in place. But I am sure that Mr Heerma and Mr Öztürk know that we are not here for the last time to talk about this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u253	I am giving Mr Heerma the opportunity for the second part of his interruption. I would like to make sure that we do not go through the whole debate. Because time is running out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u254	I'll try not to. Mrs Vermeij refers to Mr Van Weyenberg's motion, which is at its core, but the example she gives is more to the other motion tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, which is supported by Mrs Karabulut and my own group. It concerns the motion to step up the approach to labour market discrimination. Does Mrs Vermeij intend to support this motion as well? In my view, it is more to the core of the example she has just given than the other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u255	Your question is clear. Mrs. Vermeij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u256	At the end of the debate, I shall sit down with the authors again, because I have interpreted that motion quite differently. I thought they were calling for an additional action programme and for it to be stepped up. However, I thought we had enough of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u257	Mrs Vermeij says that we will discuss this subject more often. That is of course the case when her minister and her party come up with soft, soft measures, such as a diversity course for HR managers. No...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u258	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u259	We need those racists and xenophobic people, who discriminate and do not accept people, clearly and clearly "names" and "shames"; we need to dismiss them from the government. We can only tackle discrimination through tough measures. When is the Labour Party going to see this and take tough measures to tackle discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u260	These questions by Mr Öztürk are a repeat of his questions in the first term. I would point out to him that all the motions containing actual measures have been tabled or supported by the Labour Party and not by Mr Öztürk himself. I mentioned a whole series of them in the first term. Mr Öztürk can fight with me, but he can also fight with me. That's what I'm inviting him to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u261	Mr Öztürk, not a whole speech; a question please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u262	I'm setting up the PvdA. The PVV does that with the VVD. The PVV is ahead and the VVD is behind that. I'm trying to keep the PvdA on track to reach her ideals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u263	I would have asked you to ask a question and not to dwell on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u264	I will have the motions tabled by us which the PvdA voted against sent to Mrs Vermeij. Once again, when is she going to take care of this minister that he did not realize what the Labour Party promised the voters three years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u265	I am concerned that every young person in this country, as well as every unemployed older person, every girl and every woman, should be treated equally in the labour market. We still have a world to win there. We have discussed this at length today in a very intensive debate. I have, to put it this way, even an example of this, because I have been able and allowed to use as an example our own intern, who has experienced something really bad in the past. I'm very grateful to her for that. I think we have another battle to fight. I see many parties in this Chamber who want to do so together with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u266	Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I was thinking about the very first debates we had with this Minister when he had just taken office. Several MPs then wished him more ambition. I know that you, Madam President, are not Mr Elias, but I apologize for my English. The Minister always indicated that he was someone of "underpromise, overdeliver." In Dutch this means that the actions would exceed the expectations aroused. In this debate, I believe that there is a broad feeling in the Chamber that the opposite has happened. I have heard this in the first term of many Members of Parliament: the harshness of the statements made and the expectations of excluding companies were sometimes greater than the actions that followed. That is one of the reasons why I supported Mr Van Weyenberg's motion calling for an intensification. I would like to make two points very briefly and then submit a motion. The Minister indicated that the inspection could indeed impose fines, but the inspection indicated that this would not happen. So it's possible, but did it happen? Has the inspection ever paid fines for discrimination? Does the Minister expect this to happen more often? The last point is something I do not think the Minister has mentioned. In spring, I asked the Minister to talk to the social partners about more motivated rejection of applicants so that they could hear why they were rejected. The Minister was going to discuss this with the Labour Foundation. We haven't heard from him since, and that's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas labour market discrimination is a persistent phenomenon and must be vigorously combated;]] [[Whereas it is also important to know the motivation of rejection in the case of employers' applications, so that possible unspoken prejudices can be identified and discussed;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to discuss the importance of reasoned rejection when applying to social partners, so that the reason for rejection is now linked back;]] [[calls on the Minister to consider, in consultation with the social partners, how to promote the justification for rejection in an application and to inform the Chamber on this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-699]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u267	Mr. Chairman. I had doubts about tabling a motion, because although others thought the Minister's story was crystal clear, it was not entirely clear to me. There is still uncertainty when the Minister says on the one hand that he is looking for borders and on the other hand that there must be a court ruling first if you want to tackle a company hard. I think that limit is clear, namely that you need to have a court ruling at some point. If not, I want the Minister to indicate more clearly that he feels that there is still room in the front to ensure that people get to court sooner. There can be no doubt that the Minister does not agree that powers relating to the case-law will be extended and should also be transferred to other bodies. For us, it cannot be the case that you are accused of a crime and that someone other than the judge makes a judgment about it with far-reaching consequences. Of course, you can always have an opinion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u268	Does that mean that the VVD Group is satisfied with the status quo, in which the number of notifications and declarations of labour market discrimination among all kinds of bodies is growing massively, but zero companies have been tackled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u269	In the case of discrimination, you can never settle for the status quo, but I find the question of why the course to the judge is not made. That is why I ask the Minister whether he means by looking up the borders that there are apparently obstacles to getting there. I'm curious about that, because we made those laws a long time ago. We have set the standard in this way. It frustrates me, like anyone else, that discrimination still exists and that it seems that very little comes to court. Then why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u270	That's right. This also has to do with capacity and cuts, but I'm curious if the VVD supports the other side of the story. That side is that we could take this problem more seriously through the administrative side and through our labour inspectorate. This means that we need to give them a little more powers and a little more space. Does the VVD support this, so that we can tackle labour market discrimination as well? Normally, the VVD is in favour of a tough approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u271	Discrimination, including labour market discrimination, is a serious fact. It's a felony for which you can be prosecuted. I don't think that criminal prosecution can be taken over by anyone else. That's what the judge should do. And if a verdict has been made, then there must be a lot of action. That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u272	The VVD says that the criminal conviction must be done by the judge before you can give a sentence. Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA has tabled a motion. It has not yet submitted it in full, but it concerned the punishment of returners without having been sentenced to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u273	I suggest that we stick to the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u274	The VVD signed that motion. When it comes to such matters, therefore, the VVD is prepared to allow citizens to be punished and tackled without conviction, but in such cases it is not prepared to tackle businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u275	This is where apples and pears are compared, and I'm out of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u276	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u277	I think you've already received an answer. Briefly, just a question and not a single argument. We're really running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u278	Okay, thank you so much for keeping that story with me every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u279	I am also doing it to Mrs Karabulut and to the Minister's reply. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u280	I would like to raise a double measure here. There is a double measure when the VVD does want to punish people in judicial matters without using the courts, but does not want to do so in companies. I would like to denounce that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u281	That was your question, and Mrs Van Miltenburg is going to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u282	I'll repeat it again. You can discuss something here, but if you have an apple on one side and a pear on the other, that is very difficult to compare. Again, I'm not in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u283	Mr Heerma also has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u284	Yes, an enlightening question. I agree with the VVD Group that statements by the College are no reason to exclude companies. But the limitation that the VVD Group seems to impose is that it can only be done through the courts, whereas the Minister has explicitly and explicitly said that the inspection can indeed impose fines for discrimination. A large part of the Chamber wants that, too. The VVD Group is not against that, is it? That's not what the VVD Group wants to block, is it? Then it's not the criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u285	I think it is already the case that the inspection can monitor whether there are measures in a company or whether there is a policy to combat discrimination. That is what I heard in the debate. The inspection can impose fines for that. That's already the case, and I'm not resisting it. But the Labour Inspectorate is not allowed to judge individual matters. It's gonna take the hallway to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u286	Mr. Chairman. In the Van Weyenberg/Vermeij motion in part No. 693 the government is asked to look at the grounds for exclusion and the scope available, without crossing the fundamental bridge of excluding companies without condemnation: look at what the new procurement rules offer. On that motion, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber, because it fits in with my speech. You cannot exclude companies without a criminal conviction, but we can continue to look at how we can deal more effectively with companies that discriminate. That is what I am saying to Mrs Van Miltenburg. I think she agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u287	Mrs. Van Miltenburg, you are being challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u288	Of course I agree...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u289	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u290	... but who will find that there is discrimination in individual situations? That's the judge, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u291	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u292	We may agree, but in a rule of law we need an independent judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u293	Of course, but we also have a number of other bodies within that rule of law to which we attach more authority, such as the Labour Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate. That is not the same as a criminal conviction, but I interpret the motion as: look again at the weight that can be attributed to those authoritative judgments of other independent public authorities. That's what I want to do. I'm not raising expectations beyond what we already know. In this respect, I stick very much to Mr Heerma's opinion, but I believe that we are obliged to continue to look at how we can do better. I wonder what the VVD will vote for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u294	Everyone has to keep looking at how to do better. In my first term, I also called on the Minister to do so. I can see that a difference is being made here. The Minister is now saying something different from what was written in previous letters. In it he wrote that there must always be a judge's ruling underneath in order to be able to take those steps. Now the Minister is suggesting that this may not be necessary anymore. That suggestion lingers in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u295	I'm not suggesting anything. A number of Members of Parliament are suggesting that I investigate something. I'm willing to respond to that, so I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u296	The Minister has said how he interprets the motion. As far as I am concerned, that is an accurate representation of the aim of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u297	I come to the motion by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Karabulut and Mr Heerma on item No. 694. It notes that the implementation of a large number of announced actions by Social Affairs and Employment is lagging behind. That's not true. I keep reporting on how these actions are going. These actions are all being carried out neatly. The motion calls on the government to step up the approach to labour market discrimination and to report to the Court before 1 May 2016. If I might suggest to the authors to delete that observation and I may interpret the motion in such a way that, of course, we continue to look for additional opportunities to tackle this persistent and reprehensible phenomenon, bearing in mind Mrs Van Miltenburg's speech, I shall leave the motion to the House's opinion. This observation must then be deleted and the proposers must agree that we should continue to look for more opportunities. Intensifying measures that are already in place cannot be achieved. There must be more reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u298	I note a number of delays, but I do not really want to have that debate with the Minister, because I am pleased with what he is going to do. I think that's what binds us here. I've just been looking at both co-sponsors. I'll take that consideration out with love. I think that we can indeed consider whether, for example, Mrs Vermeij's suggestion on HR managers could be one of the fine elements to involve in the implementation of this motion. I will take the consideration out of the motion in consultation with the co-subscribers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u299	In that case, and especially in view of the interpretation, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. 695 deals with proposals to reduce pregnancy discrimination. In itself, we're already working on that. The college's already looked into that. I consider this motion to support policy. For that reason, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgment. We have already looked at this in the light of previous statements by the College of Human Rights. On inspectionszw.nl under the publications tab you can find more information about naming-and-shaming. That has to be filled further, but at least this is the location that Mr Van Weyenberg asked for. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 696 by Mr Öztürk. It calls on the government to set targets on the policies pursued. I cannot leave the motion to the judgement of the Chamber, because it concerns a different number of types of figures. It is about the policies that organisations themselves conduct and impose targets on themselves. This must be done by all organisations that join the diversity charter. It is also about experienced discrimination. It is very difficult to implement a manageable policy there. However, I fully understand what he is saying. In fact, he says: keep your efforts to the utmost to reduce this filthy phenomenon. I agree, but I have to advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 697 calls on Mr Öztürk to ensure that other public authorities are also aware of the opportunities we have created to deal with discrimination. That's what I see as policy support. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House's judgement. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 698. That's a tough one. It calls on the government to come forward with proposals to increase the powers and instruments of the SZW Inspection to combat all forms of labour market discrimination. This motion I must advise against. We have chosen to give the College of Human Rights and the judge himself a task. It is not for nothing that the inspection itself conducts policy research. It shall determine whether the policy is in conformity with the law. It has neither the task nor the institution to deal with individual complaints, such as an ADV, the judge or the Human Rights College can do so. Mrs Karabulut also asked about the blacklist. The College of Human Rights itself publishes all judgments. The power of taking-and-shaming by the inspection is right that the inspection has then detected something. I would therefore not like to add all kinds of other sources to the publication by the inspection, because I think that this is contrary to the power of taking-and-shaming by the inspection. But it is true, because the judgments of the College of Human Rights are public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u300	A few years ago, the Minister came up with a very tough statement that he was going to tackle companies. He also came up with a list. There's nothing left of that, I see. Now I'm gonna go into the motion, too. Of course, it is not just a question of whether or not they can and should not deal with individual cases in the future. It is also the field of work of the Labour Inspectorate. The Minister himself says that when the labour market is in place, the inspection does not have any powers at the moment. But this is mentioned in the General Law on Equal Treatment. It's about the whole labour market. And there are most complaints about that. This motion also calls on the Minister to read it in order to see whether the instruments are adequate and how cooperation between the various authorities can be improved, but with a firm position and teeth for the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u301	The observation by which Mrs Karabulut starts her question is not correct. We've changed the law. More measures have been taken and contracts are being addressed. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that the problem of discrimination still exists. We would like to do more about that. But the observation that nothing is happening is simply wrong. The motion calls for the extension of powers. I would advise against this, because these powers are divided, as I have just outlined. However, there is a problem on the part of recruitment and selection which we are also focusing on with the Action Plan on labour market discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u302	I note that there is a zero effect, that no company has been dealt with and that it is all about intentions. The Minister is not even prepared to see how we can restore our Labour Inspectorate, an important body, when this is urgently needed. That disappoints me greatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u303	Mrs Karabulut's statement is not correct and I can only take note of her disappointment. The CDA's asking about the fines. In the first period, I indicated that the inspection could indeed impose fines. This did not happen because the 80 visits found three companies in which the policy was insufficient. They'll have the opportunity to fix that. A repeat visit will then be made. If it hadn't recovered by then, you could sanction it. So far this has not happened, but there is a possibility. Now I come to the motion on part No. 699 by Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg on the justification. I have spoken about this with the social partners; there is no misunderstanding about it. But I have no objection to doing that again. In that sense, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. I note that the social partners I am talking to are really in the middle of something. They see that as a problem. The ESC opinion on labour market discrimination has been supported by employers and workers for a reason. It is now mainly about dealing with the rotten apples, with all the ifs and buts. After all, it is almost never, or perhaps never, about the policy of a company, but about the rotten apples in the HR department that do this. It is also a question of combating prejudice. So I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber, but it's just a question of whether the motion adds a lot to what we're already doing. I'll just leave that to the proposers. Finally, I would like to make a comment. A few weeks ago, when the new Action Plan was distributed, we also presented the WODC report "Discrimination: from declaration to prosecution" to the Chamber, including a response. This is about the conduct of discrimination cases in the criminal justice chain. I think it is very important that people continue to press charges and that we get better at prosecuting and hopefully condemning criminal discrimination. You can see that that report identifies a number of bottlenecks that you do not solve with the change in the powers of the Labour Inspectorate, but which are relevant, such as: expertise promotion, sensitivity or recognition of discrimination among all parties involved, better registration and reporting, so ensuring that you keep track of what is going on with discrimination cases because it has to be in a good way to follow up on prosecution, and detection and prosecution itself. To this end, there must be better cooperation between the parties involved. There must also be a new reaction protocol setting out how you deal with the claims for discrimination. In addition, a more diverse workforce, including in the criminal justice chain, will be used to ensure that we become more effective in this area. This does not mean that we will have all kinds of criminal convictions against companies next year. Apart from the condemnation of companies, however, it is also relevant that individuals should not be discriminated against in order to maintain the criminal standard. In order for individuals to be convicted, it is necessary to file a report and that this leads to successful prosecution. I can do better than that. Measures have been announced in this context from Security and Justice and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. I think it is important, given the nature of the first-term debate, to add this to what has been said about employment discrimination sec.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u304	We have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank all the Members and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for their participation in this debate.
