ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. I was very pleased when, in September last year, after intensive negotiations, we reached an agreement with Morocco on the adjustment of the bilateral social security convention. So I very much regret that we are here today to deal with the law of termination of the same treaty. During the technical transformation of the agreement concluded with Morocco into a Protocol amending the Convention, Morocco came up with additional requirements. I have done everything I can to reach agreement, which unfortunately has not been achieved. The Chamber cannot really say that I has rushed the process of amending the Treaty. This has also been read by the Chamber in the reconstruction and in the Acts of various debates in the House of Representatives, where I have always asked not to deal with the law of termination, in the hope of a political agreement that was reached at that time. That negotiation process has led to a perfectly reasonable agreement, in my view, but the Netherlands cannot meet the requirement now laid down. This concerns the requirement to export social security benefits to Western Sahara. I would remind the Court of Justice of the purpose for which the Netherlands intended to amend the Convention: this was in view of the desire to stop the export of child benefit and child-related budget, under the law which entered into force on 1 January 2015. Furthermore, it concerned the law that entered into force on 1 July 2012 on the housing principle and a proposal for a law of the Minister of VWS to end the world coverage of the Zvw. I believe that in this Chamber there is hardly any difference of opinion on the fact that an amended treaty is still preferable. This is better for those entitled to benefits in Morocco and is in line with the recently expressed wish of the House of Representatives, which calls on the government to continue its efforts to reach an agreement with Morocco in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u2	The Minister says that exports to Western Sahara were the problem. Was it the export of a small number of cases, or was it the fact that Western Sahara was mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u3	I will come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u4	Agreed. The Minister continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u5	I believe that a treaty should be able to be adapted if the social security systems of contracting parties change. But now that that has not been done, now that there is no agreement, I come to the conclusion that we must denounce the Treaty in the current circumstances. But an agreement with Morocco is also my preference. I am therefore still prepared to make a deal within the framework of the outcome of the September talks. There was a good agreement in the interests of both countries and the door of the Netherlands is open to further discussion. This willingness has been indicated to Morocco at all conceivable levels. It will have to be completed by 1 July of this year. That is the date on which I will inform the Moroccan authorities of the termination of the Convention. If agreement is reached, I will, of course, inform Parliament immediately. First of all, I will deal with the progress of the negotiations, then with exports to Western Sahara, and I will answer Mrs Oomen's question in detail, with the Referendum Act, with the withdrawal of the Convention, with the principle of the country of residence financial compensation, with the EU-third countries Association Decision, with the consequences for relations with the Kingdom of Morocco, with the return of illegal foreigners, with financial aspects and, finally, with integration, and, of course, with the more constitutional aspects that Mr Schrijver incorporated in his speech. I will begin with the termination of the treaty itself. GroenLinks asked what we have to win and lose. Does this outweigh all the disadvantages of termination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u6	I have hesitated to interrupt Mr Asscher in his introductory remarks, but I have a point to make. If the Convention is denounced before 1 July 2016, there is still room, until 31 December 2016, to reverse that termination. I just want to stress that the deadline of 1 July is a fatal date for the termination, but you can cancel it until 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u7	That is true, but I wanted to try to keep some pressure on, although these negotiations have created a mess of chicanes. GroenLinks asks whether the cancellation is worth the effort and whether it outweighs the disadvantages. In the end, of course, it is up to the parties of this Chamber itself to answer that question. For the government, it's worth it. Not only because of the financial aspect, but also because of the combination of adopted legislation in both chambers with the fact that a very reasonable agreement has been added to a requirement that we cannot meet. Indeed, the financial elements and arrangements also play a role. All things considered, we believe that it is now up to us to denounce the treaty, but it is obviously up to each party to give a final opinion on it. I also understand and recognise the dilemmas outlined by the various speakers. The Netherlands and Morocco have had friendly relations for over 400 years. In my view, the termination of this treaty does not have to harm it, especially in the context in which it is done and the way in which it has been done. There have been very good contacts and during my visit to Morocco a year ago we also discussed very extensively the content of the Convention but also the relationship between the two countries. A termination of the treaty will undoubtedly have negative effects, but it does not have to break the 400-year relationship itself or damage it permanently. After all, for most of those 400 years, about 90% of the time, we didn't have this treaty either. The SGP asks whether I can confirm that a cancellation would not apply to the existing cases. The Treaty itself lays down the obligation to respect existing rights in the event of termination. This means that these rights must be respected even after termination. Therefore, the application of the housing principle is not possible. If an existing beneficiary brings his child to the Netherlands, Dutch legislation applies. If the child were to move to Morocco later on, there would be no constitutional basis and no child benefit could be paid in Morocco for that child. The Christian Union has asked for the deadlines and measures set out in the political agreement of 2015. I explained this in detail in the letter of 29 September. The principle of residence does not apply to existing benefits granted until 31 December last year on the basis of the Anw, WGA supplement, TW and a WGA supplement in the AKW and WKB benefits. They will not be affected as long as they continue to meet the existing conditions. Angler beneficiaries who were reduced before the entry into force of the Housing Land Principle Act from 1 January and who did not object or appeal would be paid as if they had. They'd actually be better off with that deal than without a deal like that. From 1 January 2016, the new Anw benefits and the new WGA follow-up benefits would be reduced by a fixed percentage of 10% compared to the benefit paid in the Netherlands. The new surcharges under the Supplementary Act would be adjusted according to the schedule: 10% in 2016, 20% in 2017, 30% in 2018. For new justices from 2019 and the following years, the entitlement will be reduced by 40% of the benefit that would be paid in the Netherlands. From 1 January 2016 until 31 December 2020, exports of child benefit will be maintained until the child reaches the age of 18, provided that all those other elements are gradually reduced. So that is the deal that I still have and which I would also like to turn into an amended treaty. It is precisely because, by definition, I find it acidic that some people who have objected and appealed have now come out better than some others who have not. That was a concession, as Mr Kok rightly pointed out, but it does satisfy the sense of justice with regard to the right holders there. Of course, that's not going to happen now that this deal isn't going to happen. The CDA asks whether this will help to reach an agreement and whether it will actually help to put pressure on Morocco. I can't answer that question. I can only say that as far as the Netherlands is concerned, the door remains open, that we are still behind the deal that was there in September and that it is therefore up to the Moroccans to indicate whether or not they see possibilities before 1 July. I will keep that hope, because I think it is in the interests of both countries to reach agreement. However, you do not know exactly what the effect will be. It is also difficult to assess the extent to which Morocco will still be prepared to withdraw or reword the later requirements. There are contacts at official level between the two countries. There is no negotiation at the moment, because the negotiations were in fact concluded in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u8	The Minister speaks of the opportunity. Can he also indicate in a percentage what chance there is still to arrive at the original deal, as he would like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u9	No, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u10	The Minister has just indicated that it is in our interest that there should be a deal. However, we are now taking the risk that the treaty will have to be denounced. What would be the importance for the Netherlands to maintain cooperation under the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u11	Achieving our own policies, complying with passed laws and complying with agreements made with each other. If there is a deal, it is therefore not appropriate to say: never mind if there is a last-minute odd demand on the deal. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, that is not a sensible balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u12	I had the impression that the Minister also meant that it is important for us that we maintain cooperation in this way, that is to say to maintain the Treaty. The Minister now states that we can implement the laws. Are there any other interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u13	For the Netherlands, it is always better to amend the treaty; I have not made any misunderstandings about it in any debate. The Treaty itself contains provisions that facilitate checks on fraud and property controls, which give us rights to do so. It also fits more in the friendly relationship to adapt the treaty than to cancel it. It was precisely my great preference to amend the treaty. That's why I've been asking the House of Representatives for years not to deal with that bill of termination. I have strongly opposed this, and I have always asked for more time to negotiate with the Moroccans. That is why I was so happy when it was possible to reach a political agreement. This is still a disappointment to me, and I am not going to ignore it, but in the current situation I am probably making a different assessment than GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u14	The Minister hopes that, if this Chamber chooses to cancel the treaty, Morocco will return to its path towards the agreement that has already been reached. There's still time, space, at least until July 1st. Does the Minister see any other possibilities? One of the groups asked today to communicate properly. I believe that Mr Ester has asked for this in particular. If the Minister is going to do so at a very early stage, the Moroccan community could perhaps start thinking and come to the conclusion that it would be useful to call on its own government to come to terms and accept the treaty, as it was initially signed. Does the Minister see any possibility of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u15	I would not want to put pressure on a government of a friendly power through Moroccan Dutch. The other way around, that would bother me, too. The long arm shouldn't go the other way either. I know the Moroccan-Dutch community very well. It's as diverse as it can be. Among them are people who believe that the treaty should not have been there at all, who actually think it is very good that we should stop doing so. There are also a lot of people who are very worried or angry about it. I am particularly concerned about those who are not at all capable of following all the debates and perhaps living as a widow in a much less developed part of Morocco and getting it over them. I think that the Moroccan-Dutch community is very well able to assess that this demand was not raised by the Dutch Government at the eleventh hour and is not in the interest of the Moroccan Dutch, but is related to Moroccan views of a national nature. I can't influence that and change that. I can only respond to that and express the hope that they will return to the political deal of September 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u16	That's very clear. I understand the Minister doesn't want to use the Moroccan community. However, we are talking about this bill at a very early stage, because we think that the Moroccan community is going to ask for a referendum or something like that. In other words, however you turn or turn, the Moroccan community is more or less present in this debate. Let me put it this way: it is precisely the concern of the people who are getting it because they are not able to participate in the debate that calls for a very fast and careful way of communicating. If the Minister did so, the additional effect could be that the Moroccan Government would get signals without the Minister calling for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u17	Sure. I agree with Mr Schalk. It is not that I think there will be a referendum, but we must continue to offer the opportunity. That's what sets the deadlines. It's getting used to, it's clumsy. I shall deal with this later, because questions have been asked about it. I have no reason to believe that such a referendum would happen, but there is a possibility. Yes, I think it's very important to communicate well and proactively. At the time, following the deal in September, we organized a number of sessions to tell what this means and what this means for current and future cases. That's important, because it's about people's rights that you're making changes to. In the same way, I will ensure that the law is clear, not only for the Moroccan Government but for everyone interested in it, that at least until 1 June we have the opportunity to restart the talks. I understood the point correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u18	I have heard the Minister say, to my surprise, that he still has the door open. Anyway, so be it. He also said within that margin that he would be prepared to talk to Morocco further, on the basis of the previous agreement. Can this imply that the Minister is prepared to make additional concessions on top of the agreement reached? I do not mean with regard to Western Sahara and such parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u19	When you talk to each other, you talk to each other. I am talking for a reason about the framework of the September agreements. If there are real discussions about this, where the Moroccans would say that they find a certain detail less good than another, then I would like to talk about it. But it must fit within the 2015 framework. So it can't be a completely different outcome. It is therefore not possible to meet the requirements of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u20	In this first block, the Minister once again outlined the progress of the negotiations. He again used the term "at the 11th hour." Does my group see correctly that "hour eleven" was about eight weeks ago? Is it true that it was not until mid-December that this rather remarkable, unexpected, additional political demand was put forward by the Moroccan Government? If that is the case, is it not a curious way of keeping the door open by smashing the door of the treaty itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u21	It's true that this was about eight weeks ago. At the end of 2015 that came to pupate. It was mentioned once before in an official round. Then we indicated that we could not do that. It was never delivered, not in texts, in direct talks with me or in the negotiations, until after the political agreement. That's the complicated part about the 11th hour. You could say it just happened. However, the agreement was concluded in September. From that moment on, we have called for it to be converted into a protocol amending the Convention, as it would become operational by 1 January 2016. The fact that that clock was ticking was part of the arrangements made. It is not that we thought eight weeks ago: let's do something about the Social Security Convention. It's been a process of years. That is why I find it difficult to regard it as unreasonable of us to say, when such a requirement comes into being, that the timing was also important to us. There will still be room for return to the September 2015 deal in the coming months if the Chamber agrees to terminate. However, I think it is time to take the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u22	We have praised the Minister before for his angelic patience in this file. That is why I can imagine that, if you look at this with fresh eyes from the outside, and see that it is only eight weeks since a new cliff came on the road, and you have been negotiating for a few years, it is strange not to try to make sense of the other party now, with or without the help of outsiders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u23	A feature of being in negotiations is that you can no longer judge yourself whether you have a fresh look. It may well be that Mr Schrijver is right to say that I do not have enough at my disposal. Then he should not agree to the proposal. That's up to the Chamber. To people from the PvdA who want to cancel their membership, I always say: you have a better reason next year, so stay a little longer. I understand Mr. Writer's reasoning, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u24	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech. No, there's a question first from Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u25	If I understand correctly, the Minister is now saying that he is putting pressure on the termination of the treaty to achieve the original agreements. That's what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u26	No, I'm not saying that. It would be an effect. With the termination of the treaty, I will cancel the treaty. There's no Chinese in there. However, I would point out that Morocco will continue to have the opportunity to return to the talks and to the negotiating table. Also, my door remains open. You can't do this as a kind of shadow move, because it does have effect. The heaviness has it. So I fully understand the dilemma that many speakers have voiced. There's a downside to canceling a treaty. It has very few advantages. Do you have to do that? I understand that. I've been walking around with this dilemma a little longer. I have made my assessment on behalf of the government. Tonight it's up to the room. I can't make it any easier. It is an assessment of whether it will lead to a movement of the Moroccan government. I sincerely hope so. I have very good memories of those talks and negotiations. I think it would be in the interests of both countries and their inhabitants if that were to happen. But I can't control it. I am a member of the Dutch Government and not of the Moroccan Government. So it's nothing but it is. It's a law of termination. I'm coming to export to Western Sahara. It is clearly not a problem for the European Union. Mrs Oomen asked an important question about this. In this context, I would like to say first of all that the Central Board of Appeal stated explicitly in 2011 that the Social Security Convention does not apply to Western Sahara. With regard to Western Sahara, the European Commission and the High Representative follow the UN position in which Morocco is considered the de facto managing power in the non-self-governing region of Western Sahara. The Netherlands shares that view. With regard to the application of association and fisheries agreements between the EU and Morocco to Western Sahara, the Commission and the High Representative are indeed based on the principle that activities based on the Convention are legitimate as long as they do not neglect their needs, interests and benefits for the population. This means that activities in Western Sahara, including those resulting from the EU-Morocco Association Agreement, do not necessarily violate international law. However, an important condition is that these activities benefit the original Sahrawi population of the area. Exporting benefits to Moroccans living in Western Sahara is not possible under the same reading of international law. What about other countries? Don't they export to Western Sahara? That is what Mr Schnabel from D66 and Mrs Oomen from the CDA asked. I have gathered information from a number of countries. According to the information available to us, Belgium and France, countries with a large Moroccan community, also do not export benefits to Western Sahara. Spain exports the WAO, the AOW and survivors' benefits around the world. So there is no requirement that there should be a treaty before you export benefits to any country. So all other people who could live in any disputed or disputed area can also benefit from benefits exported from Spain. The Dutch situation is all the more specific due to the requirement that a convention with enforcement agreements is required under the Dutch Export Benefits Limitation Act. Why is a postal address or a second address not a solution to the export requirement? The actual place of residence or residence shall be determined. It is a standing policy that when people give an address where they do not live, we consider that to be fraud. A postal address or a second address is therefore not a solution. An adjustment of the policy for this particular group would create a precedent with very far-reaching consequences. I am not aware that Morocco has ever made the demand for Western Sahara with one of the other countries. In this context, it is good to point out that it has been the situation for more than ten years that we have not exported to Western Sahara. The BEU Act has been there for ten years. That's never caused any trouble. The situation has not suddenly been exacerbated by the Netherlands. It's an existing situation where you would like to change a treaty. This demand has now suddenly been made, which has not caused problems in recent years. Many have rightly asked how many people we are talking about and what we are talking about. I very much agree with that. I didn't want to see Western Sahara in any of those texts either. If the reverse is demanded, creating a precedent whereby the Netherlands explicitly agrees to export to Moroccans who live there in future, then we would be in breach of the BEU Act and international law if we were to comply with that requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u27	Although it is a matter of detail, I would like to know how Morocco has arranged its living in the first place. What kind of registration takes place there? The Netherlands, of course, has a strict view on this, but in many countries there are no such strict rules as we have. People have two, three addresses. That's all there is. I think it's very legalistic. I am getting the impression from the Minister's story that something strange has happened in Morocco. He has negotiated with his colleague in office of Social Affairs, or whatever it is called there. He seemed to agree with him, for they have come to a common understanding. Do I understand that the intervention of the Moroccan Foreign Minister has led to this and that the Minister for Social Affairs has to look into this? How am I supposed to interpret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u28	On the first point, I'm sure. The Netherlands has of course perfected all registrations of everything to the limit. This is certainly not a requirement that we impose on all the countries with which we have treaties. So this is not about Dutch legalism. Nor is it a question of me having radiated in any way in those negotiations that we will now focus primarily on the detection of possible fraud in Western Sahara. I never mentioned it. Mr Schnabel asked whether a pragmatic solution could not be devised. Completely in line with party ideology, I hear that in his plea. I can only answer that I am always very much in favour of pragmatism. I can't agree that we'll accept a different address from where they live from now on. This has very far-reaching consequences for many right holders. As long as Morocco explicitly demands that we export to Western Sahara from now on, you will not really get to that discussion. On the question of what happened in the bosom of the Moroccan Government, I must remain guilty of the answer. Of course, I have my thoughts on it. I'm thinking about that. I have made up all sorts of things and heard about them, but I have nothing in my hands that I can give an answer that I can harden. So it keeps guessing. Like sometimes things happen to the Dutch government that are strange in the eyes of other countries, this was strange to me. Yes, my colleague and I congratulated each other on the phone after signing in September. There's no misunderstanding about that. It wasn't nearly finished. No, there was an agreement. We have both communicated this to the parliaments and stakeholders. Not only in the Netherlands, but also in Morocco, there have been briefings on the significance of the political deal. That's not what the misunderstanding is about. This demand was added to my regret later. I can't answer the question of how that went exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u29	Does Mr Asscher have any idea how that went in the Parliament in Rabat? I don't suppose this would have gone unnoticed there either, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u30	I have to be very careful already to give reviews of how things are going in our Parliament. The more careful I have to be in assessing and interpreting how other parliaments deal with their governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u31	But we have an ambassador sitting there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u32	Sure, it's been discussed in detail. There's been a lot of talk about it. I believe it was Mrs Strik who warned that both countries would bury themselves. You can taste that risk if you follow those debates like that. Hence my message, even today: my door is open, I regret it and I would like to go back to the agreements which, in my view, are in the interests of both countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u33	Do I hear correctly that the Minister says that we cannot export as Europe does because of the BEU Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u34	Sure. There is the international law aspect. There is also the BEU Act, which requires you to export to countries with which you have a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u35	If I am right, the protocol that is now in place, the European protocol, will be exported. This means that this international obligation, because it is not mentioned, does not need to be maintained. Then it is only the BEU Act that makes it impossible for us in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u36	In my view, both elements are relevant here. At least the BEU Act stands in the way of exporting to Western Sahara. This is a Dutch law that has been around for ten years and has never caused problems in implementing the bilateral social security convention. Mrs Strik asked on behalf of GroenLinks why there is an urgent need for time. If the Chamber approves today's notice of termination, a possible referendum will be clarified by mid-June. An assumption is that the threshold of 10,000 signatures would be reached in the first round. The threshold of 300,000 signatures for a second round for a possible initiative is not yet reached. But you'd have to wait for that second term. If you look at these deadlines in this way, then we must have clarity today. Actually, we won't have to until next week, but then the room will be recessed. The publication of the Royal Decree may then take place no later than 28 June, after which the notification may be made to Morocco. I do not want to take the risk of cancelling the treaty before there is any clarity about a possible referendum. There is a distinction with an ordinary law, because the withdrawal of a treaty cannot be reversed unilaterally. Once it's canceled, you can't turn it back one-sidedly. That leads me to say that please let us build in that space at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u37	That is the distinguishing criterion: otherwise it must be reversed. The Minister could also argue that we should allow it to enter into force later in order to prevent us from having to reverse it. Anyway, they didn't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u38	In this way, at least before 28 June, we will have clarity as to whether there will be a referendum. If you know it's not, you can notify the Moroccan authorities. If that clarity came about after you did, you might not have the opportunity to get the old situation back. On the basis of the case law as it stands, the country of residence principle cannot be applied to people living in Morocco. That is what I am saying in response to a question from the SGP. The judge's ruling clearly shows that that's not possible. Pursuant to transitional law in the Convention with Morocco, in the event of withdrawal, the benefits pending at the time of withdrawal should be respected. A cancellation therefore has no effect on an ongoing benefit. The principle of housing cannot be applied to this. Mr Schnabel asked to what extent the country of residence principle was applied to exporting neighbouring countries. From the EU Member States, we know that Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany and France apply adjusted amounts to the export of child schemes outside the EU, taking into account the standard of living of the country exported under the bilateral agreements concluded by those countries with Morocco. In general, EU Member States' national policies on exports of social security benefits are extremely diverse. That really is a patchwork of various regulations that are exported. GroenLinks asked what, on balance, is the result of the termination of the treaty...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u39	This was not an answer to my question. I have asked whether there are other EU Member States which no longer allow exports of child benefit at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u40	I wouldn't know. For the second time, I will check that out. What is the result of the termination of the Social Security Benefits Convention after the entry into force of the Association Decision? That is what Mrs Strik van GroenLinks asked. What about applying after termination of the Convention, but before entry into force? Following the entry into force of the EU Association Decision, the Netherlands is obliged, on this basis, to re-export survivors in disability benefits and old-age pensions to both married and single persons. This means, if it is in force, that there is no longer any new export to Morocco of child benefit and child-related budget. In addition, there will no longer be any new export for the Disease Act and the Supplements Act and the Self-employed Disability Insurance Act, the WAZ. In addition, medical care costs incurred in travelling or staying in Morocco may no longer be reimbursed on the basis of the Convention. As long as the VWS Act on World Coverage has not entered into force, the Health Insurance Act can still be invoked. After entry into force, the cost of care provided in Morocco must either be paid for itself or be covered by private insurance covering that cost. In addition, persons who settle in Morocco after the cancellation of a Dutch pension or benefit cannot rely on medical care at the expense of the Netherlands. Existing cases can still claim care in Morocco on the basis of the transitional law provided for in the Convention, as long as there are no changes in the situation. Applications for export of benefits on the basis of the Association Decision shall be met after the entry into force of that Association Decision. Mr Schnabel asked whether it was right that only the WKB and the AKW should be discontinued when the Association Decision was adopted. No, that's not the case. It's not just about WKB and AKW. Supplements under the Supplementary Act do not need to be exported either. I admit it's not a world sum, but it still belongs in that category.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u41	I'd like a little more clarity. Perhaps Mr Asscher can say when he expects the association agreement to enter into force. But what happens if there's a hole? What happens to the requests of someone who would be covered by the Association Decision if it had already entered into force between the time when the Convention was terminated and the Association Decision entered into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u42	I tried to sketch that. There's an interval. After termination and before the entry into force of the Association Decision, the situation shall be as if there were no treaty. Afterwards, however, the Association Decision makes it possible to apply for exportability for certain benefits. Those are the benefits I just mentioned. Those are, in fact, the benefits except for those child schemes in the Supplements Act. You can apply for export after the Association Decision enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u43	This may mean that people who are now receiving benefits under the bilateral convention will have no benefits for a while, but will then live again when the Association Decision enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u44	No, because the existing treaty provides for transitional rights. Basically, you keep your rights. It's always about new cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u45	Sorry, that's right; excuse me. But it is not the case that someone who has a right on a given date could be said: the date of your application falls for it, so we cannot deal with it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u46	This situation may arise when someone settles in Morocco from the Netherlands in the period between the termination of the Convention and the entry into force of the Association Decision. But even so, you can't say that someone's rights have changed. At that point, those are the rights. People who now benefit from an export benefit keep those rights on the basis of the Convention itself. In the event of termination, existing cases should be respected. There are two possibilities for new cases. One: In the situation that there is no new treaty, one only has the right to AOW. Two: In the situation that an EU Association Decision has entered into force, the rights conferred on it can be enforced. I say to Mrs Strik that the EU Association Decision is expected to be dealt with this year in the Employment and Social Policy Council. That is what I draw from the Commission's work programme. However, I have not received any further information on any planning in this respect. Mrs Oomen and Mr Ester also asked for this. Insofar as you can derive an expectation from something, it is the Commission's work programme, which expresses the intention that this year should be dealt with in the EPSCO. Mr Ester has asked whether the decision referred to above is a matter for this debate. The answer is yes and no. This is purely about the bilateral treaty. A country may or may not have a bilateral treaty. People who subsequently settle in Morocco can have a number of benefits exported on the basis of the Association Decision. This could now be done on the basis of the bilateral social security convention. In the period that the treaty would have been denounced, that would not be possible. In that respect, you could say that this is the overrulet. In any case, it shall correct the situation which would then arise. However, the EU Association Decision does not require the export of child schemes. I have just mentioned that point, but that is relevant to that. The same applies to the surcharges in the Supplementary Act. Mrs Strik asked how certain we can be that the Association Decision entered into force at the time the Treaty expires. I have no other information on this than the Commission's work programme. With her expertise, Mrs Strik may have even more reason to derive a justified expectation from it than I do. I can only rely on the work programme and the expectation that you can derive from it. That's not a guarantee. Mrs Wezel asked what impact the coming of the Association Decision had on the request to examine the law of termination. We have taken into account the development of the Association Decision in our consideration. However, we have considered that the Association Decision in itself does not give rise to the withdrawal of the Treaty. The policy objectives, the cessation of the export of child schemes and supplements to the Supplementary Act and the end of world coverage can be achieved by the termination of the Convention. Mr Schalk asked what the mandate for the European Commission on the Association Decision meant. Does this mean they're signing at the cross? Are there any options for discussion? If the Association Decision corresponds to the mandate previously given to the Commission by the Member States, the Netherlands will not vote against the establishment of the Association Decision. That would be strange. You're giving a mandate. If it meets that requirement, then I see no room to deviate from that mandate. That would be unreliable. If it is different, the Netherlands will certainly be able to use the space to reopen that discussion. Mr Ester asked to what extent the Western Sahara was an issue in the discussion on the EU Association Decision. I have no information on this that I could share with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u47	I will come back to the association agreement. It is logical for the Minister to say that the mandate will stand. We have just heard from him that Belgium, Luxembourg, France and Spain have also entered into agreements. That was also stated in the reply to the written questions. Do I understand that these countries have made agreements with Morocco on the standard of living? Did they do it? How do these countries view the mandate, which was given six years ago, where a number of countries may have come to different conclusions about the standard of living and the export of benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u48	The agreements of these other countries relate in particular to child benefit schemes, i.e. to the level of child benefit. They are not affected by the Association Decision. Those countries have managed to make agreements with the Moroccans. The Netherlands wants to stop exporting them. Those countries export a lower amount. I have no reason to believe that other Member States would like to return to the mandate previously given in order to reach an EU Association Decision. It seems to me in itself that, if a negotiation is successfully concluded within a given mandate, apart from the substantive reasons, there are also arguments on reliability not to go back on that. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to those other Member States. Mr Ester has asked what I am going to do about damage control. Assuming that I prefer an amended treaty and that I continue to hope that it will still be possible to conclude an agreement within the framework agreed in September 2015. The fact that I am saying this for the tenth time here is part of the damage control that Mr Ester is asking for. If that were not possible, we would unfortunately have to cancel the treaty. I will make every effort to clarify the reasons for this in the direction of the Moroccan counterparts. Bert Koenders also does this with his partner. I will also mention the fact that the 400-year-old bilateral relations and the great common interests of trade and the common fight against terrorism require that, even if you could not agree on this part, you continue to cooperate on all those other aspects. That value is great for both countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u49	I have a question about the Minister's open-door policy. You can actively open the door, open it quietly or put it on a crack. How does the Minister open the door? Does he do that in a proactive way? Are there any informal meetings where he sends out the signal that this treaty is breaking? It also seems to me that Morocco has advantages. At the beginning of his speech, the Minister mentioned all the advantages that the Netherlands has in that bilateral treaty, but of course Morocco also has. In the end, that country will not benefit from breaking it. But how open is the Minister's door?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u50	Quietly opening the door becomes difficult, given this debate and the debate in the House of Representatives. It is all very explicit and also very conscious. Mr Kok does not understand that. I understand. I think it's more in our best interest to make the deal the way it was. How open is my door? In any case, I cannot respond to the requirement. The BEU Act prevents that. If I did it that way, there would be conflict with international law. The Moroccans know that. We made that clear, too. I'm available for all the other calls. We have each other's cell phone number. The ambassador walks down the door there. It can't be more open than this. I have nothing else in my pocket to travel to Rabat to see if anyone can look at it again. As things stand, I can't do much more than say what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u51	Briefly, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u52	I understand and thank the Minister for his answer. Is he waiting for his phone to ring or is he picking up the phone himself? That seems to me to be the big question tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u53	Of course, I took that phone a long time ago. We have made it pro-actively clear: boys, come to the table; let's solve this, because otherwise it's mortally sinful. So far, this has not led to a reaction. Mrs Oomen has asked whether the financial importance is greater than geopolitical stability in the region. That is, of course, always a difficult consideration. This presupposes that you already know for sure what effects the withdrawal of the treaty would have and that you could measure not only those effects, but also the effects of those effects on geopolitical stability in the region. That could soon lead you to decide not to do it. We will make a different assessment in that regard. We believe that both countries have an interest in adapting the Treaty. There was a time when this treaty wasn't there. Both countries have a lot of common interests in the world we live in today. They are very different countries with a very different political culture, but also with very clear common interests in the field of trade, the fight against extremism and cooperation in many areas. These interests will of course remain, even after the Treaty has been terminated. These interests apply to the Dutch side, but also to the Moroccan side. This means that we do not want to do the proposal because of possible negative effects. Thanks to the diligent officials in the Civil Service Tribunal, I also received the answer to the question of whether there are EU Member States that do not export child benefit to countries outside the European Union at all. Member States may pursue national policies in this respect. Indeed, there are Member States that do not export child benefit to third countries, such as Romania, Sweden and Poland. Those countries don't do that at all. That saves you for the second term, Mr. Chairman. What are the consequences of taking back illegal aliens? As far as the Netherlands is concerned, these are two separate files. The cabinet will also emphasise this every time in its contacts with Morocco. Furthermore, I would stress that Morocco is currently cooperating on forced return, albeit not at the level at which it was for the announcement of possible termination in 2014. If Morocco no longer cooperates on return, this will concern in particular the forced return to Morocco of persons without a valid travel document. That is why you need the cooperation of the Moroccan authorities. The detention of aliens must therefore be lifted from that group. After all, our Council of State believes that the so-called view of expulsion is a prerequisite. I assume that voluntary return and forced return of persons with a valid travel document can still take place. I hope that it will not come to that because we are going back to the agreement of September 2015. That was the eleventh time, Mr. Ester. If that is not the case, I hope that we can limit any discussions to this dossier and continue cooperation on the readmission of Moroccans who are illegally staying in the Netherlands. Has the savings been calculated taking into account possible additional benefit costs, e.g. the effect of the expiry of control on the legality of a benefit? Yes, that has been taken into account in the 40 million savings. It is estimated that the expiry of control and enforcement opportunities will result in just over a million additional benefits. By the way, it remains just as much in violation of the law. Fraud continues to be fraud, but becomes more difficult to enforce. How many new applications for benefits are to be expected, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asks. She also asks whether there is a falling trend and whether we are taking sufficient account of it. In general, we take into account falling or rising trends. However, I would point out that future developments, such as the number of children for whom child benefit is exported, remain by definition uncertain. They're hard to window. On the Supplementary Act in particular, a downward trend has been taken into account. A large proportion of the benefits under the Supplementary Act are supplements to the WAO, while there is no new inflow in the WAO. It has to go down by definition. In any case, the number of entitled persons will gradually decrease. The number of child benefit recipients is really extremely difficult to predict. It depends on so many factors whether or not people make that decision that you can't see an autonomous trend in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u54	I found the statistics for the last 20 years that we have received very insightful. From this you can conclude that in 1995 there were more than 30,000 children and now only 3,000 children. So you constantly see a steady decline. Of course, you can never predict anything with certainty, but for what reason would the Minister suddenly say that the trend is going the other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u55	I have no reason at all to expect that trend to move in the opposite direction. I don't even have a window myself. I do not wonder how many there will be next year, for example. The experts we have before find it very difficult to predict such trends. They do when it comes to the surcharges. Logically, they take it down, because the WAO is no longer accessible. With regard to these kinds of arrangements, the experts, on whom I must rely, find it very difficult to make predictions and to detect trends. What about the administrative burden that would resurrect if the Association Decision were in force? As Mrs Strik pointed out in her speech, these are not very large numbers. The administrative burden will not be very high. They are budgeted at about €385,000, once. The UWV still indicates that the administrative burden of about six tonnes is to resurrect if the Association Decision enters into force. Mr Schnabel asked whether it was right that the savings should remain the same after the Association Decision entered into force, i.e. 5 million on child schemes. Yes, that is correct, because the export of child schemes does not change with the entry into force of this Association Decision. How do we deal with the Moroccan community in all this? Firstly, the Moroccan community does not exist. It is a very diverse community, consisting of people who are hardly more rooted in the land of their parents or grandparents and people who are still strongly rooted there, such as the first generation of guest workers. It also consists of people who already make a full contribution to social life in a different way. Moroccan interest groups have been kept informed and informed of this bill and of the negotiations on the Convention. At all the crucial moments, we've connected them. As I said, information on the political agreement and its content has been organised. If the treaty is terminated, it will of course happen again. The importance of that treaty for parts of the Moroccan community is very well known to me. That is precisely why we have done everything we can to reach agreement with the Moroccan authorities. Are all those concerned well informed about the consequences if the First Chamber agrees to the bill? Yes, the Social Affairs attaché in Rabat will provide information on the spot in Morocco. This will take place at the Office for Social Affairs in Rabat and, where necessary, at other information meetings and through other channels. The Social Insurance Bank and the UWV will also inform the public through their websites. These are the websites that the stakeholders also use for their contacts with the Dutch government. The main message will be that current, existing benefits go through, but that no new rights to Dutch benefits can arise if one's child is resident in Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u56	What have the reactions been in the Moroccan community or in the organizations with which the minister was in contact at the time he could say: we are out, boys, we have signed and this is the line and then, when he had to say: I am sorry, the Moroccan government is not cooperating. I'm guessing that's when there was contact again. I understand that there are different views, but in the various documents there is hardly any reference to how it actually happened in the Moroccan community. I'm curious about that. I notice that it is also very empty in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u57	Of course, there are different currents. You can see organisations that have never actually accepted the principle of housing. They also opposed the adaptation and the political agreement of September. They thought that was an attack and a restriction. You can also see a large group, consisting of a new generation, which says it is nice to see that the existing cases, i.e. the proverbial older widows who live outside the big city in Morocco, have been savoured with them and that those who have not objected or appealed, are satisfied with them. They're okay with it being different for new cases. This actually fits in with the phase of integration and emancipation of the Moroccan community in the Netherlands. That group has therefore understood and received the political agreement. There is now also great disappointment within this group that this agreement is likely to die or have been killed for strange reasons. So you see different flavors. You can see the more traditional representation or part of it that has taken the view from the outset that the Land Law, which was also adopted with the support of GroenLinks in the Upper Chamber, should not have been there. It is also wrong to amend the bilateral treaty which incorporates it. A large part of the Moroccan community, which is not represented through such organizations, I cannot say what is representative, because of course there is no mouthpiece of the Dutch-Moroccan community. Yes, times have changed compared to the early 1970s. If you now decide to live in Morocco at some point as a successful Moroccan, there is no reason to export all these benefits fully and not to take into account the land factor. That account has been taken of people who are unable to prepare at all and who are used to the situation as it is, was considered important within that part of the community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u58	Are there any indications that pressure from the Moroccan community has been exerted on the government there to ultimately not agree to the revision of the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u59	I don't know if there's been any pressure. I know, however, that some of us in the first category have also publicly expressed their disagreement with the political agreement. I don't know if it's been experienced as pressure by the people involved. Mrs Strik has now come to say that she voted against the country-of-home principle at the time. On the other side GroenLinks was ahead. I can at least tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u60	I would very much like to make a correction for the Acts as well. The proposal was adopted here only with the support of the PVV, the CDA, the VVD, the Christian Union and the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u61	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u62	GroenLinks was at least one of the supporters in the Lower House. I'm sure of it. As long as that is not disputed, it may well be in the Acts next to that other piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u63	Luckily, we're here to make our own decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u64	That's right. That's a great blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u65	Can the minister indicate how much longer he's gonna need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u66	That's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u67	Then I can ask a very long question, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u68	You can't interpret that like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u69	The Christian Union has voted on both sides of the Binnenhof in favour of the principle of the country of residence. I would like to return to the Minister's answer to Mr Schnabel of D66's questions. He indicated what has been done in recent years to inform the Moroccan community in the Netherlands. If the bill is passed tonight, it will send a signal. For my party, it is crucial in the final assessment of this bill to know what the minister is going to do in concrete terms in this period of time to engage in dialogue with Moroccan society. We also know that this community is very diverse, but that is not so much the point. How does the Minister deal with the dialogue? What's the story he's going to tell and how does he involve the Moroccan community in the case? That's crucial to my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u70	Information will take place in Morocco, in Rabat and, where necessary and appropriate, in other places, on what this entails. In addition, there will be contacts with the organisations in which Moroccans unite in the Netherlands. I am always available to explain this and to discuss it further. However, it would be wrong to pretend that all Dutch Moroccans find this the most important point. Most of them are Dutch people, just like everyone else, who are trying to find a job and raise their children and who are trying to make a difference in this country. So I'm not going to appeal to all Moroccan Dutch people right now, because many of them have already told me: how to do that with the 1970s treaty we notice, what we're talking about is employment, the fact that you can participate fully, you're invited to an application and you're not rejected by your first name or last name. So it would be wrong to pretend that these hundreds of thousands of Dutch Moroccans are still immortally sticking to the Anw's full export to Morocco. That's not true. What I hear back is that it has to be a fair deal and that you have to deal with existing cases properly. This is reflected in the political agreement. However, it is not the case that this statement and perhaps the statement that the presence in the gallery is also the most essential element for Dutch people with a Moroccan background. And that's a good thing. The Labour Party, through Mr Schrijver, has outlined a number of alternative options on how to deal with this issue. Where is Mr Schrijver now, by the way? I don't see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u71	We've spotted the principal magnificus of Leiden University in the hallway, and it could be that he's conversing with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u72	Okay, you can. As Mr Schrijver pointed out in his speech that he thought I was a little short on a number of previous suggestions, I thought: now we are going to unpack. Anyway, he'll hear. Mr Schrijver mentioned three options, firstly a cooling-off period and provisional application of the political agreement. I do not think it is realistic to assume that provisional application can be agreed with Morocco. Morocco indicated that it would not be able to accept the Amending Protocol on the basis of the political agreement and made it an explicit condition for consent to now also export to Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u73	As far as the Acts are concerned, I should like to say that Mr Schrijver is again present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u74	It's as if the room has lightened a few tones. So if we could reach agreement on provisional application without meeting that requirement, we might as well change the treaty ourselves. So I don't think that's a realistic option. If that were the case, the Moroccans are listening with me now too, I'd like to hear it, but it doesn't seem likely to me. Then the second option, the suspension. Convention law provides for the possibility of suspending the operation of provisions of a Convention if the Convention so provides or if Contracting Parties jointly agree on a suspension. That possibility is not provided for in the current social security convention. For that option, too, I consider it less likely to assume that we could reach agreement on the suspension. It has not so far been possible to conclude any agreement on an adapted treaty which would be more favourable for Morocco than a suspension. If one were willing to talk about it, it would be much more obvious that one would go back to the September 2015 deal. All you could do, then, is unilaterally suspend. This is only possible if one of the parties can successfully rely on one of the grounds for suspension mentioned in the Vienna Convention, such as material violation of the Convention by the other party, the entry into force of a situation which makes execution impossible or a substantial change in circumstances. I do not believe that there is a situation in which these conditions for successful recourse to one of those provisions are met. Then the third option, the referee committee. The current Convention provides for the possibility of an arbitration panel to settle disputes concerning the interpretation and application of the current Convention. As far as the interpretation and application of the current treaty is concerned, in my view, there is now no dispute between Morocco and the Netherlands. I therefore do not believe that the procedure provided for in the Treaty is relevant. The political agreement itself is not yet part of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u75	I would like to thank the Minister for carefully passing through the three alternatives outlined by our group. Does he recognise that provisional application in treaty practice is occasionally the case? Could he give us a little more reason why provisional application is completely inconceivable in this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u76	The most important ground I have for this is that I cannot take this one-sidedly. As long as I am not in contact with the Moroccan authorities leading to a form of agreement on an element of the September 2015 political deal, an amendment to the treaty et cetera, I do not think it is realistic to think that it would offer an alternative. If I had been asked by the Moroccans to apply for the time being and only to do certain elements because they still have problems with other points, I could at least have thought about it. In all the contacts that have been there in those eight weeks, we have indicated in all keys, in all the languages available to us and through all the means of communication that we would like to continue the discussion on the September 2015 deal but that we cannot respond to the demand that has been made. That has not led to a tendency for agreement. That is why I do not call it a realistic alternative. Not because it would not be technically possible, I think Mr Schrijver is quite right, but because I want to miss out on the Moroccan authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u77	I appreciate that answer, and that's exactly what I expected. That is why the alternative of partial unilateral suspension is perhaps a prelude to provisional application. The point is that there is a substantial change of circumstances. I heard that you rejected that, but allow me to assume that there is indeed a substantial change in circumstances. The treaty is a living instrument. There are essential changes to social security systems in the world, of which our treaty also reflects. We live in the 21st century but the text of the Treaty is still from 1971. You have also acknowledged this, because we have negotiated an amendment to the treaty. We signed it. It seems to me that you will end up with that reasoning, even with an arbitration committee. You've actually done the reasonable thing to bet on a treaty change. That you acted in good faith. That you have agreed with extraordinary reasonableness and coulance a change. Surely it is not unreasonable, in the light of your treaty partner's constant refusal, to unilaterally suspend part of the treaty for the time being? From a coulance, you say you will apply what was agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u78	I'm listening with admiration, but I can't quite follow the reasoning. I understand the reasoning, but I can't follow it. Why not? It is not for nothing that the Dutch court has also indicated that we must abide by the Treaty. For this reason, the suspension or shortening of benefits by the Dutch court has been stopped. The changed circumstances in Dutch social security law were not sufficient reason for the Dutch court to dismiss the Convention. I understand very well that you are talking about those who look at the way you deal with treaties, not the Dutch judge, at such a separation committee asking for one-sided suspension. But I cannot see what the material added value would be of a unilateral suspension of part of the Treaty, which at least could be qualified as an unfriendly act in relation to a rather unpleasant but royal road, and to say: we cannot take this treaty on our behalf anymore, so we will say it. I do not see the added value of the scenario outlined by Mr Schrijver here. If it were possible, I wonder what exactly it would produce in relation to the situation we are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u79	Finally, Mr Schrijver, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u80	The Minister and I are actually following the same trail. I would remind you of the debate on the principle of the country of residence. We support that principle in itself, but my group warned in the First Chamber that you would not be able to do so in the light of the Treaty provisions before the courts. I do not want to be right, but it has proved to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u81	In short, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u82	We have to think creatively. Suspension, or possibly partial suspension, is a much less unfriendly act than total termination. This should also be noted by our treaty partner as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u83	I immediately acknowledge that Mr Schrijver was right when he issued that warning. I remember those debates vividly. We asked for this information at the time. He was absolutely right about all the judges who watched that. That makes it extra predicament not to agree with him in all the other things he says. But I can't rule out that he could be right about that, too. It's about an appraisal of how unfriendly something will be understood. I would venture to disagree with him on this. This is not something a judge will judge either, because this is really in the appraisal of the relationship between governments. On the understanding that the door remains open, we believe that at the moment the weighing-up should be the withdrawal of the Treaty. I understand and respect the fact that all the political parties, all the groups in this Chamber, must make their own assessment and bring the dilemmas outlined here to a successful conclusion for themselves. I have a suspicion of how that balance will end with the Labour Party, given Mr Schrijver's speech, but that does not bring me to another proposal to this Chamber. This brings me to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u84	I understand that there is a need for a short suspension before the debate continues in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u85	I give the floor to Mrs Oomen for the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u86	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group in the First Chamber has discussed extensively whether or not to support the termination of the treaty between the Netherlands and Morocco. We have a problem with the export of social security benefits. We all agree on that. The legislation to be more thrifty in these exports was adopted in this house last year. This made it impossible to export family allowances or child-related budgets. Social security legislation was also saved, as benefits were sometimes stopped. The Minister has said a few times that there was a nice agreement with Morocco. I said the same thing this afternoon. That beautiful agreement gave substance to the Dutch wishes, but at the same time was also social because it would not stop existing benefits. The agreement did not go through at the last moment, because the Dutch Government could not accept that the agreement reached would extend to Western Sahara. The government now sees the withdrawal of the agreement between the Netherlands and Morocco as the only way to achieve the desired austerity. You could and should call that a horse's tool in order to achieve the 17.5 million cut in the future. Other important issues for us covered by the agreement, such as cooperation in the judicial field, the control of fraud involving payments for current cases which are not stopped, will not be easier after the agreement has been terminated. Sometimes they become impossible, at least if Morocco also fulfils the threatening language that has been spoken. We've been wondering where the profits are. We are saving 17.5 million, but we are losing a strategic partner in other areas that we also need in the reception of foreigners. That too has been taken into account by the CDA Group. Nevertheless, in his reply, the Minister asks us to support him ten times, as it increases the pressure on the boiler so that it can be allowed until 1 July, it has been noted that even after that it can be possible, within the negotiated contours, to adjust the agreement with Morocco. I said in the first term that our group would consider it. Since our group had given the original agreement the predicate 'precise', we wonder what would stand in the way if the Minister also said that his door was wide open to see if we could reach the original agreement at the time of that additional pressure. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the Minister is given the opportunity to do so and he is given the green light for this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u87	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and his officials for answering our questions. It clarified the process character of the negotiations with Morocco, including the break-point around Western Sahara that occurred there. The Minister also discussed in detail the broader assessment context, the possible side effects and our relationship with Morocco. The Christian Union Group will give all its support to this bill. It is also a logical consequence of our support for the Schut/Welkenn/Dijkgraaf motion and our vote for the Land Law principle that we accepted in this house four years ago. We note that the Minister has conducted the negotiations properly. There was an agreement before it, but Morocco came, even when the signatures had already been signed, with an unhonorable additional demand around Western Sahara, an impossible demand under international law. After all, we are talking about occupied territory. We therefore regard the termination of the treaty not as a muscle policy, but as a matter of principle. Sometimes a line has to be drawn. Then the pragmatism has to give way. After five years of negotiation, that moment will be there. We give our support with a certain pain in the heart, because you don't just give up a treaty. It would have been much better if we had been able to reach an agreement with the Moroccan Government, just as we did with other countries. It wasn't meant to be. We very much regret that. We hope that further rapprochement will be possible in the period up to 1 July. It is good that the Minister is still willing to do so. We very much hope that its open-door policy will be effective, but the prospects are not very bright. We are well aware of that. The bill is a sensitive issue. That too has become clear in the debate today. I therefore attach great importance to the Minister's commitment, including to my group, to communicate well with our Moroccan community, however diverse it may be here in the Netherlands, on the consequences of the bill and the underlying motives of the government. Polarisation should be avoided. It is precisely now that good communication and good information are needed. My group will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman. My group is also grateful for the way in which Minister Asscher has spoken today, but also for the way in which he has accompanied the process of re-negotiation to bring about an adjustment of the social security treaty with Morocco. I see the Minister's dilemma, because it is spoken under Dutch law. We've passed some laws. That is the basis on which we and our rulers have to act. You'll get a treaty under conditions. At some point, however, the implementation and application of the Convention shows that this is outdated and that there is a somewhat difficult relationship with Morocco. I also refer to the trade attaché at our embassy in Morocco. It is remarkable that two sovereign states are at stake here, while one sovereign State allows officials from another country to be present in its own area to carry out control work relating to the granting of social security benefits by the other country. That seems to us to be a very strange situation. So we see the gap. We also hear the arguments of the other groups. In particular, we have noted the good relationship that we want to maintain with Morocco. That plays a very important role, but at some point you have to draw the logical consequence of your decision. How should you proceed in a course where Dutch law remains the starting point? That route has been completed. It has been tossed over for years, and in the end it has led to a legislative proposal to terminate the social security agreement with Morocco. As I said in the first term, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u89	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. It is good to note that he has been working so hard for too long. The ambivalence that there should still be a deal, disappoints us a little. That's not a real option for us anymore now that we're bogged down in some kind of poker game with an uncertain outcome. We seem to have landed on a sliding scale with an active open-door policy. The previous deal was already quite generous. My group's conclusion is that the bilateral agreement with Morocco must be denounced. Our country has tried for years and more than correctly, longer than reasonable, to adapt with an unwilling treaty partner. The stage of trying again has passed. Any good faith is to ignore a difficult but very advantageous agreement as absent. Faced with pertinent unwillingness, there is no point in participating in the game of training and chicaning. It's been too long. The motion-Schut c.s. It's clear. All perceived disadvantages and risks are not already clear in advance, so some realism is needed. At this stage, it is not a question of quality pluses and lovers, but rather of giving effect to principles such as the principle of housing and the choice of the scope of child care obligations. The creation of technical-academic constructs up to and including salomon judgments, is the main reason for this, and lacks a stand-alone attitude and responsibility. How credible are you with the unilateral application of an already rejected substantive agreement? It is not a question of trying to make sense of one's own interests, or of asserting national pride, but rather of implementing agreed policies. Let this be the clear signal. The old saying still applies: speak softly and carry a big stick. My group will fully support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u90	I thank the Minister for his reply. He made it clear once again that he attaches great importance to good cooperation with Morocco, also a good treaty-law relationship if possible. Still, he's running off some kind of ticking time bomb. My group insists that the Minister is playing a high game, because Morocco must be moved in this way towards the result of the negotiations that have been achieved. In fact, you can only do that if you don't have that much interest in it yourself. But if you think, "if it works, it's good, but if it doesn't work, we have a big disadvantage," it gets harder. There I see some tension. The Minister attaches a great deal of importance to this, but it is now in danger of coming to an end. Then the question, which Mr Schrijver also asked, remains: are there no alternatives that go less far, so that we can still avert the termination? The Minister states that there are no such alternatives. However, we still have a few months left. Maybe some scenarios can be explored or worked out. The Minister acknowledges that the financial advantage is very small. He mentioned an amount of 40 million, but in the first period I mentioned 17.5 million, because I am thinking of the entry into force of the Association Decision, which immediately reduces the benefit. There are also many other disadvantages. He recognizes the Minister's equestrian. The difference is that the Minister hopes that it will not be too bad, but my group is a little more pessimistic about that. All cooperation depends on the political will. Of course Morocco also has an interest in working well with the Netherlands. My group can also see that, but it may be that cooperation between the EU and Morocco partly addresses these interests. I refer to the negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement, where much more can be done than what might be exchanged bilaterally. We therefore consider the course that is now being chosen to be risky. For us, therefore, the balance remains different from that of the Minister and a number of other groups in the Upper House. I do have one more question. We were just talking about the Association Decision. The Minister does not know when it will enter into force. I'm a little surprised he knows so little about it. After all, we are now President of the EU, and so we also have some direction on the agenda. We have short lines with the Commission, so perhaps that could provide some more concrete information on how it is going to proceed now. I have one more specific question. The Minister said something about that. What exactly happens to, for example, someone who is entitled to WAO and moves to Morocco at the time when the treaty has been terminated, but the association agreement has not yet entered into force? Then there is no export. If, after six months, the association agreement comes into force, is that person still eligible for the WAO benefit, so is he relived? Or did this end? Maybe it's a very stupid question. I hope, then, that the Minister will be able to give a very clear and reassuring answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. I began our speech this afternoon by saying that this is a matter that should have been avoided. Why we couldn't do this, we all have to stop it, it seems. That's kind of tricky. I also note with colleagues that it is extremely difficult to accept, on the one hand, that something has happened that goes against everyone's commitment. The Minister has made a very clear commitment to this. We saw that and he explained it in detail this afternoon. He also said that the efforts so far have not been successful, but that he will try to reach agreement with Morocco in the coming months and almost this whole year. I indicated in my first term that we can agree in principle with the idea that, if you are put on the spot in such a way at the time that signatures have actually been signed and you have reached an agreement after a very long time and very intensive negotiation, there is also going to be a point of principle, namely how you relate as partners and how far you want to go with possible objections and possible reactions from the other side. We have weighed that up, also in view of the answers we have received from the Minister to questions from ourselves and colleagues. Our conclusion is that it sounds a little weird, because that is not how we can really do it, that we should give the Minister with his intervention, his attempt to send a very clear signal to Morocco that you cannot go on indefinitely, that you would like to give the benefit of the doubt, you could say, and therefore support the legislative proposal. We are doing so with all the doubts we have in our hearts and concerns about the people who are really involved, and we must hope that they will suffer as little as possible from them, which might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u92	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group thanks the Minister for the clear answer. The SP Group, as we know, is extremely critical of the withdrawal of the agreement with Morocco and shares the Minister's view that there are serious risks of the withdrawal of the agreement. The members of the SP Group deplore the breakdown of the negotiations on the bilateral social security agreement with Morocco. We hope that the Minister will come to an amended treaty with which both countries can agree. In the opinion of the SP Group, the consequences of the termination of the Convention outweigh the objectives of the amendment of the Convention, namely to end the export of family allowances and the child-related budget. In view of the risks involved, the SP Group assumes that the Minister will continue to work towards a solution. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also shares the view of several parties that Morocco can also be expected to contribute to a joint solution. It is about the interests of the citizens concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u93	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, for answering the questions. It is striking that the tone of the Minister, after a great disappointment seems to me, remained respectful. I think this is important for the next few months. The doors, which had to be wide open, can also be opened with your tone even wider. On 10 June 2014, the Schut-Welkenn/Dijkgraaf motion was adopted, in which, after a number of observations and considerations, the following was stated: "The government requests, as of October 2014, to send a bill to the Lower House to cancel the treaty with Morocco, if Article 5 has not been removed from the Dutch-Moroccan Treaty as a result of this negotiation in September 2014.' Again: this motion was adopted in the House of Representatives in June 2014. The present bill provides for the termination of the bilateral social security agreement with Morocco on 1 January 2017. That is more than two and a half years after the Schut-Welkenn/Dijkgraaf motion was accepted. The Netherlands has been and still is very generous. It has been said today that there is a great deal of haste. I am not very happy with the way the referendum is rushing us today, but the only advantage of that is that we will now take a decision on 16 February, after which there will be three and a half months of extra space. That space will have to be used by the other party, in this case Morocco. I appreciate the creative solutions that have been put forward, among others by Mr Schrijver. You are trying to point that out, but I do think that the time has come for complete clarity. The coulance extends until 30 June 2016 and perhaps even longer, but until then the Moroccan Government has the time to fully accept and sign the agreement reached previously. If not, the sole responsibility for the termination of the Convention lies with the Moroccan Government. Secondly, it is important that the Dutch Government is very careful, particularly when it comes to communication and information. I was pleased to hear that the Minister has a lot of contact with many interest groups. Then the individual residents or citizens will not be involved in the question of whether or not they should call on their government to accept the agreement reached at that time. Interest groups can do this in a very good and flexible way. Anyway, at the end of this debate, I can say that the SGP Group will support the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u94	Mr. Chairman. We have actually had an extremely interesting debate. You'd almost be hungry for a third term. My group would like to thank the Minister for his careful answer of many questions today. I also appreciate the input of many of my colleagues, who face many dilemmas similar to those of my group. It's a very difficult trade-off. Of course, the government has been extremely generous. In the negotiations, it has been very accommodating and patient. However, we feel that two governments, over the heads of the people concerned, cannot come to an agreement where that agreement was actually very close in the interests of those people. For this reason, we continue to regard withdrawal of the treaty as a means of horse-fighting. There is a high level of play, however the Minister opens the door, with our agreement. We were very pleased with the compromise reached in the autumn. That was generous, and it was generous. It is very unfortunate that only eight weeks ago a spoke was put in the wheel, on very improper grounds. So you're just gonna have to cancel the whole treaty? Do you have to throw away the baby with the bathwater? Or do you have to look with open eyes at the possibilities that exist legally under the Vienna Convention to go less far? Do you have to look at the possibility of suspending the treaty, in whole or in part? That is still very unfriendly, but less unfriendly than total termination. In any case, the treaty will remain in force. It comes in a kind of parking position, not quite in a coma, because certain rights will continue to go through and you can revive it if there is renewed agreement, for example on the basis of the compromise previously reached. All things considered today, we are guided by the contribution made by Moroccan workers to development in the Netherlands and by respect for their labour rights, including those of their families; secondly, by maintaining good cooperation with Morocco on a wide range of subjects, of which combating terrorism and remigration are only two examples. For these two main reasons, my group cannot support this far-reaching legislative proposal after a difficult consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u95	I note that the Minister can reply immediately. Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. There were hardly any second-term questions, so I have taken note of the considerations of the various groups, which I can all follow. That the tone is respectful, that's what I'm trying to make use of. So if that is not the case, I hope that Mr Schalk will intervene, in this dossier and in other dossiers. This also reflects the fact that I sincerely hope that agreement will be possible at some point, which does not mean that I am not in favour of the balance I have defended here today. GroenLinks asked whether as the current President-in-Office of the Council I do not have more information than I have given here. No, I gave you the information I have. It's not on the agenda I know now for the next Epsco meeting. It is not on the provisional agenda of the Epsco meeting in June either. That's all I know. If more is known about this, I will certainly share it with the Chamber, but at the moment I do not have any other information. Anyone who does not have the right to export the WAO can do so if the Association Decision enters into force. That person can then invoke that right from that moment on. From that moment on, we could do it again. Then that right will live again, even if you have to ask for it. The Dutch government does not have a register of people residing abroad with whom that right would arise, but it can revive. Finally, I would like to thank the First Chamber for the fine and good substantive debate. I hope that, either after the Treaty has been terminated, the excellent relations will be maintained, albeit without a bilateral social security agreement, or we will be able to fall back on the September 2015 agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-7.u97	Then I'm gonna come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote? That's the case. We shall then vote on it in a moment. I would like to press the bell so that all Members have the opportunity to come to the House before the vote.
