ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u1	Ten speakers have come forward. These speakers all have four minutes' speaking time, with the exception of Mr Houwers, who has one minute's speaking time, and Mr Bontes, who has two minutes' speaking time. I call Mr Knops of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u2	Mr President, it seems that you have been doing this for a very long time, but today is the first time you have chaired. So it's going very well. First of all, I congratulate the Minister of Defence for escorting two new JSFs into Dutch airspace yesterday. The JSFs have made a nice landing on the Leeuwarden Air Base. They symbolize the need to invest in the armed forces. The landing of the JSFs went well; the landing of the Court's report, which we are yet to discuss, was somewhat less gentle. This, of course, affects the subject of this debate, namely NATO's criticism of the way in which the Netherlands fills out a number of issues. They say, "Militaries go on where others stop." Personally, I like that very much: keep going if things aren't right. I can take my loss, but I have to be sure I've done everything I can to prevent it. These words will appear to the Minister. Fighting goes down; that is the motto of this minister, as the interview she recently gave to the Volkskrant showed. Military people do indeed continue where others stop. If necessary, they will practice without ammunition or without vehicles. No Bushmaster? Then we'll just walk into the field with our battalion. To deploy a frigate, more than 100 parts are transferred from one frigate to another. Can-do, but cannibalization does take its toll. The situation in which the armed forces find themselves is quite dramatic. All armored parts are short or too little. There is also too much demand for too few people. The army cracks in its joints; that has already been said by many people. The Minister promised a sustainable balance between ambitions and resources when she took up her position in the future. But according to the Court of Auditors' report, it is not enough. The cabinet has cut too much and then did too little and too late to destroy it. The consequences are disastrous. The force is in a downward spiral. The budget and employability continue to decline, even to the lowest level ever. The Netherlands has the smallest military force in the world measured by population, with the lowest budget ever. That is a serious matter. In fact, it is also unworthy of the Netherlands. It's also starting to stand out with our allies. NATO has come up with harsh criticism in its Defense Planning Capacity Review. The future note of this minister is cracked in this piece. NATO says that the Netherlands spends too little on defence and that additional investments in personnel, equipment, training and supplies are needed. More money is needed for supporting capabilities and for units that can maintain themselves in the higher spectrum of violence. It is therefore unusually harsh criticism, but justified criticism, because it does not make the defence area safer. Europe is surrounded by a belt of instability. There's an Arab storm on the south flank, and ISIS has declared war on us. In the east, the Russian bear growls. The Russians are already practicing with 150,000 soldiers who can be moved over 3,000 kilometres within three days. And what is NATO going to do about that? It is no wonder that NATO is irritated by the action of the Netherlands. In the United States, discontent is increasing. The US rightly complains that they have to bear three quarters of NATO's costs. I must compliment the Minister for her openness. Other countries should do the same in the footsteps of this minister. But that unfortunately makes it very clear how dramatic the picture is. The military can no longer properly fulfil its constitutional task of defending its own ally; that is to say, measured according to its own objectives. Each year there has been a further decline in employability. The Minister has been in office for three years now and, in my opinion, Rutte II cannot hide behind Rutte I, because it has only got worse. The minister called in the media that 2 billion extra is needed, but in the letters to the Chamber there is nothing left of the 2 billion. In September 2014, the Minister, together with Prime Minister Rutte, went to Wales and signed an agreement in which countries commit themselves to grow to 2% within ten years. The opposite happened: expenditure, as a percentage of GNP, fell further. The Minister said last year that this was unacceptable. What's she gonna do? Where's the red line for her? Does the Minister see that additional money is needed in the short term to prevent further loss? After all, politics is a matter of making choices. I understand I have to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u3	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u4	Is the Minister prepared to fight for more money in the spring note? After all, the clock is ticking. What does the Minister have in the sack, backpack or whatever if she travels to the NATO summit in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July? What is the Netherlands going to Warsaw with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u5	Mr Knops' analysis is loud, but not so clear. He said very easily in an intermediate sense that we are three years away and that the Minister can no longer hide behind the past. But I note that this minister has tried to correct the gap resulting from Rutte I's 860 million cuts up to 2020 by over 600 million. I would like an answer from Mr Knops. Does he agree with me? Let me say straight away that it is about cuts that have been made by a cabinet consisting of the VVD and the CDA, which was supported by Mr De Roon's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u6	I very much appreciate the directness of Mr Teeven and I will also answer his question directly: yes, money has been added. This cabinet has spent money on it, but I never denied it either. However, there are two realities which are at odds with each other. The purchasing power of Defense has become much less. This is also due to external developments, but the cabinet is also responsible for destroying them. Purchasing power has never been so low and so has the percentage of gross national product we spend on security. My answer is: yes, it is both true. I am not so sure that the Minister has done nothing, because that is not true. I have already complimented the Minister for her commitment to this, but to speak in military terms: if you go into the forest to find a rabbit, it is not only about whether you did your best, but also whether you come back with that rabbit. I haven't seen that rabbit yet. I therefore call on the Minister, in particular, to do more within the cabinet than she has done so far to get other parties to do so so that we can prevent a further decline in the year from falling Court of Auditors reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u7	The Minister is talking about her own words and she has heard the questions, so I will not say anything about them. But what does the CDA actually have to do for a reinforcement of the Defense Department? I reviewed the CDA's 2012 election programme, but I have not been able to find any real concrete amounts. Does Mr Knops remember what the CDA had left for it and how it was covered? It all had to be strengthened, but that 2012 programme doesn't say how all this was to be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u8	I believe that in the 2012 CDA election programme there was a virtually budget neutral commitment for Defence. However, I think it is very relevant to look at the years after that, as I say to Mr Teeven. In the years after the cabinet took office, we added some 600 million to the cabinet's plans. I would like to leave the question as to whether this is sufficient to Mr Teeven, but at least these are the facts. The electoral programme may not be the best starting point, because we then scaled up because it was necessary. There are people who criticize the fact that the CDA, together with the VVD, imposed a significant cut in 2010, some of which is still working with the Defense Department. I say to those people that times have changed and that the situation was different six years ago than it is now. In politics, it's about dealing today, not just looking back, but looking forward to what's needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u9	I can see that the CDA has squeezed hundreds of millions, but I didn't see the cover for that. I have heard Mr Knops speak about much more than this cabinet has done, but I have to guess how the CDA would like to pay for it. I didn't see that cover. In recent years, I have missed the financial solidity of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u10	I would like to say to Mr Teeven: don't worry, because this financial solidity and solidity in general can be found at the CDA. We covered those amendments. I know that Mr Teeven spoke to me about this in the budget debate and said that he did not find that cover his and would have done it differently himself. Of course you can, but there was a cover underneath. Politics is a matter of making choices. There's not gonna be money in the D.O.D.'s on its own. If everyone thinks it is important, but no one really does anything and no one supports this minister in her ambitions, and she has said it once and again, nothing is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u11	I was a little shocked when it almost woke up the suggestion that the CDA is partly responsible for the fact that money has been added to the defense department in recent times. That's not true at all, is it? The CDA didn't think it was worth participating in the different chords that were concluded? Did I misunderstand that or is it obvious that in the end Christian Union, SGP and D66 have delivered, and not the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u12	I should like to pay tribute to those who have made extra money available for defence, whether it is done with alternative budgets and tabled amendments or through the agreement referred to by Mrs Belhaj. I must say, however, that the way in which these additional budgets have been released under that agreement would not be my first choice. It wasn't DOD's priorities either. I was happy, though; I have said that quite frankly. Long before Mrs Belhaj was in the Chamber, I said I was okay with that. Every euro more for Defense has been taken. The fact that we did not participate in that particular agreement had nothing to do with the fact that we were not for more money for Defence. There was another reason; so does Mrs Belhaj. We have always supported it. I have always welcomed the fact that there was a broader support for it in the Chamber. However, the choice that was made at the time, particularly in infrastructure, is not the first one I would make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u13	So it wasn't in the CDA's election program and the CDA wasn't willing to finally just take the action when it had the chance, because the choices made didn't like the CDA. And yet Mr Knops claims that the CDA is the party that is committed to achieving more money? Does he believe that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u14	I do not know what stone Mrs Belhaj has been under for the past three years. She probably wants to hear that D66 has also contributed. D66 has indeed done so by supporting that agreement, but it was the last time D66 argued for more money. However, that agreement was about much more than just Defense. I said at the time that every euro is important. And yes, we have made concrete proposals over the last three years. I would very much like D66 to do the same and, for example, to support Mrs Eijsink's initiatives for multiannual defence agreements. That would be very good. And not only the multi-annual agreements not to add money, but above all the agreements to add money. I would very much welcome that. I am actually counting on Mrs Belhaj to say something about this in her term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u15	Mr. Chairman. I shall first outline the context and then discuss defence expenditure, because that is what we are going to talk about tonight. In the backyard of Europe it smears from the fireplaces. The great Russian bear has awakened from his hibernation and conducts, among other things, proxy wars in Ukraine. ISIS poses a concrete threat of terrorism in Iraq and Syria, but it also threatens several attacks in Europe. In addition, the failure of the Arab Spring has caused instability and violence on the other side of the Mediterranean to persist and persist. This then results in migratory flows. In this context, we, the Christian Union, the Chamber, are looking at the Defence budget. We see the armed forces standing on their last legs after a massive austerity. Nevertheless, our military operate under high pressure in numerous missions, including Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali, over Syria and so on. My group would like to show extra respect for this, because despite the resources that have been noted, you do see a huge motivation of the men. We have seen this again during the last work visit to the Middle East. Dutch defence expenditure is at a historically low level, well below the European average of 1.4%. That is almost half of what has been agreed within NATO. It is no wonder that NATO is calling the bell in the broadest of the countries under it, but also in the Netherlands specifically. In the words of former Minister of Defence Hillen, the Netherlands has become literally under-insured. For our security, a core task of the government, we are now at the mercy of others, as this Minister of Defence admits in so many words. However, it is no great secret that our main NATO ally, the United States, is becoming less and less focused on Europe itself and is shifting its attention to Asia. Our life policy at NATO is under increasing pressure because the Netherlands refuses to cough up its premium. In addition to the inevitable security risks associated with the current state of our armed forces, there is another risk which the Christian Union wishes to address briefly. That has to do with the sovereignty of our country. Through all the cuts, the Netherlands has become increasingly dependent on its allies in NATO and at European level for its security. In response, the Netherlands is increasingly called upon to step up cooperation with other European countries. Let me make it clear that our 2012 election programme also states that we too are in favour of cooperation in Europe and recognise its added value, but not if this is at the expense of our own sovereignty. We must find a structural solution to our under-utilisations ourselves. That must not be at the expense of sovereignty. Does the Minister acknowledge this risk? The cabinet adheres to its level of ambition "manifest deployment." The Christian Union also attaches great importance to this, but maintaining the level of ambition while the organisation is struggling with billions of savings is a question of problems. The Court of Auditors has also made this very clear in a destructive report this year. I quote: 'The fact that the Defense is still making an unsatisfactory change on its own means that the organisation is being predatory'. That is the Court's harsh conclusion. With other parties, the Christian Union has been working for more money for Defence. We see that 220 million has been added this year. The Court of Auditors says that some acute problems have been solved, but that there is still a long way to go. The recovery has barely started. The Christian Union is therefore committed to the ambition of versatile employability, because we share our responsibility for peace and security in the world and for protecting our own territory, to which Articles 90 and 97 of the Constitution also call upon us. To this end, the defence budget will need to be further increased. It is clear that the Minister must make sharp choices. If we stick to the level of ambition and a limited recovery in investment, we are not going to make it. The Court of Auditors also points that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u16	Thank you. You have used your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u17	I conclude with an important question: can the Minister indicate before the summer what is needed to carry out the core tasks of the government when it comes to defending Dutch territory? I will ask my other questions in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u18	Mr. Chairman. The armed forces are extinct and undressed. There is not enough ammunition, there are not enough spare parts, there is not enough equipment to practice with and there is too much broken and outdated. There's too much overdue maintenance. Unfortunately, these problems are not new. Through years of austerity, the armed forces run on their gums. In the first cabinet of VVD leader Rutte, the Secretary of Defense of the CDA decided to cut 1 billion dollars on Defense. In Rutte's second cabinet, the VVD decided to cut another 350 million. Only with the various budget agreements, to which we have just referred, did there finally be compensation and a break in the trend, so the Minister for Defence exclaimed. Indeed, a trend break in financial terms. Unfortunately, we have not yet seen a trend break in approach. This is also borne out by the Court of Auditors' report. The Minister now writes that the defense should receive at least EUR 2 billion. It seems to me that it is a little early to present the VVD election programme now, but I will stick to the Minister's words. Promise makes you guilty. Three and a half years this minister is at the helm, three and a half years to clean up, as she announced on her arrival, three and a half years to put things in order. But what do we see? In these three and a half years the problems have only grown. It is to the credit of the Minister that she does not conceal these problems, but she should not only be honest about the problems in the defence sector, but also about the fact that she does not seem to be able to solve them. In the meantime, we have reached the point where the armed forces are no longer able to fulfil the constitutional task of protecting their own territory. It's a historic low. It has to do not only with a lack of money, but also with the fact that the business is not in order. For years there have been problems with stocks, spare parts, the availability of equipment and necessary replacement investments. The Court of Auditors says: 'With extra money alone, the problems cannot be solved'. There must be a realistic approach to solving all these problems, and that is what is lacking. I count it on the Minister that she has been pushing these problems forward for years, that she has allowed it to get muddled and that she continues to mess around. So I think it is right that NATO should be critical. NATO also sees that the problems have only increased since the Minister's arrival. For years, my party has been calling for the defence to be put in order, partly because the Court of Auditors has been sending the same message for years. The way in which Defence now functions and deals with business is unsustainable in the longer term. In conclusion, I have two questions. When can we expect the Minister's plan to put things in order? In what way is the Minister going to invest the 2 billion, which is apparently going to be added, in Defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u19	Mrs Belhaj's harsh criticism of the Minister's action, which has been extremely transparent to make it all visible. I always follow the D66 congresses of our liberal friends with great interest, and I think the last time there was 500 million of defense. If it's D66, there won't be a penny. Is that right? Is there gonna be a penny? When I see the motions at those congresses, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u20	The first is total bullshit. There has been no motion at the D66 Congress for less money for Defence. That's not true, and that's just to look up, so I don't know where you're getting that from, but I've made it public again. To your question to what extent D66 really delivers, my answer is: I believe that D66 has demonstrated in recent years, not only that it is capable of saying that more money must be provided or that more money must be given in the newspaper. D66, if it matters, from the opposition constructively, together with the Christian Union and the SGP, has ensured that the necessary money was delivered to your coalition. Asking my party what D66 has done or what D66 is going to do, I find a bit strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u21	As the tone of the debate gets stronger, it is even more sensible to run it through the President. So I ask you both to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u22	Then I'll do it nicely through you, Mr. Chairman. The question to Mrs Belhaj is, after all, what is D66 going to do about it? You can see this minister is in big trouble. Then the congress probably adopted a motion to add €0. Is that true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u23	If I understand Mr. Teeven correctly, his question is: how is D66 going to save the VVD Minister so that she can put things in order? I think that's weird. I'm saying two bright things. One, don't make promises you can't keep. If it's not in your election programme and it wasn't in our previous election programme, you shouldn't be yelling now that we're gonna get some more money. Two, and I have said this before, we are a democratic party. This means that an electoral programme is being drawn up and that sound finances will be found. At that point, I shall be the first to send it to you, Mr Bitches, which D66 is finally prepared to deliver, during the election campaign and thereafter. There's no point in saying anything about that right now. The fascinating thing is that the General Court itself is now saying: 'Dear politicians, Minister, only discussing money is really strange when you do not have the business in order.' There's been under-exhaustment. All the money you put in now will never be enough as long as business isn't in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u24	As I understand it, D66 is now having a working meeting with this minister over the past three and a half years. I have the following question to Mr Belhaj of D66. Criticism is one thing, but as far as I am concerned, this criticism must always be based on something. I have here a number of parliamentary letters from 2014 and 2015, in which this minister has been open and clear about the problems facing the armed forces. They're partly solved and partly not. The D66 spokesperson could have voted against the 2014 budget at that time or later against the 2015 budget. D66 did not do so, but now criticises on the basis of letters sent to the Chamber and which were also discussed at that time in legislative submissions. I have not heard D66 speak in this way before. If that had been the case, there would have been consistency and, so to speak, predictability, but I see no consistency in the story of D66. Before I speak, I would like to give Mrs Belhaj an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u25	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u26	That almost sounds like a misdemeanor. D66 has indeed said in the past in response to a Court of Auditors report: "Dear Minister, what are you going to do to solve these problems?' So what you're saying is not correct. You can ask D66 not to agree to the budget in 2014, 2015 and 2016, but that would have been a huge missed opportunity, because that was precisely what extra resources this minister is so happy with and what Defence is so happy about. So, frankly, I don't know what you're referring to. I can say a bit pathetic: it is incredibly complicated; it is a difficult dossier; it has been cut for a very long time, but I also see it as my job as a parliamentarians to take a minister seriously. If I take a minister seriously, it does mean that I may be incredibly angry if it says in a report from the Court of Auditors that the Netherlands is not in a position to take care of its own security at the moment. May I express that surprise? We're three and a half years away!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u27	Of course, D66 may do so, but it requires some consistency in this Chamber, given the content and the letters of office sent by the government. I see no consistency in Mrs Belhaj's words. I hear Mrs Belhaj talking about a misdemeanour, but I simply assume what D66 said in the previous debates, the motions that have been tabled in this area and the way in which the annual report has been responded to in previous years. Last year it was a repeat, but last year D66 approved the annual report. The year before, D66 also approved the annual report. I hear Mrs Belhaj talking about the past few years, so perhaps there would be some nuance. I don't follow the story of D66 at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u28	I will clarify myself at the point of the misdemeanour. Mrs Eijsink says that if D66 is incredibly angry in the last year on the basis of this Court of Auditors report, she should have been, because otherwise it is not consistent. No, in the years before, the minister clearly said that it was incredibly difficult and that there were many bodies in the closet, but that they would all come out and all would be solved. Is it strange, then, to find out in the last year that nothing has happened? I think it's special. I don't do politics that way myself. In fact, we should have been saying for three years that things were incredibly bad, so that we could say in the fourth year: we said it, didn't we? We have always supported the Minister constructively, and we are still doing so at the moment when she said she was going to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u29	This is very special. Mrs Belhaj blames me for making an extra 600 million for the defense in three years. It does not support our amendments. It refers each time to the autumn agreement, of which, as a result of price adjustment, approximately EUR 65 million remains net. I would like to say again to Mrs Belhaj, but what makes her put on big pants here and everyone takes the measure, and then she sends the minister out with an empty backpack? That's what happens. There's a resolution from a D66 Congress. I can grab that one. Mr Dijkgraaf, too, I see that he is gone for a while now, and I think he is ready to have that debate again. Be honest now and just tell us that the D66 Congress did not recommend that resolution and that they did not want that increase there. Then Mrs. Belhaj is fair. She has a lot of criticism of the Minister. It also criticises opposition parties who make more money available for the defence industry, but it does not deliver itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u30	I notice that some people are surprised or startled by the fact that D66 is angry. I'd like to ask you a question again. On the basis of such a Court of Auditors report containing such harsh conclusions, how can you not be surprised and angry and not ask these questions in the light of the enormous importance that we must attach to the defence sector at the moment? The D66 resolution to which Mr Knops so much likes to refer does not exist. There has been a motion to seek 2% as soon as possible, in accordance with the agreements. That's what it was about. That 2% actually means simply tabling a motion in which you say: add just as much EUR 8 billion. It is not appropriate for D66, when you adopt a programme, to make a motion in between and say: make sure that EUR 8 billion is delivered. I don't know about the CDA, but D66 doesn't work that way. We have agreed that an electoral programme will be established. This includes sound financial accountability. In it, you need to be able to see the translation of the promises you make in your election program. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u31	In the first term, I said that I share the surprise and criticism of the Court's report. We have a debate on this and we are going to have another debate on it. Now Mrs Belhaj says that that resolution does not exist. Then the D66 website can be removed from the sky, because that is what the resolution is still on. There's just certain things in there. I'm surprised at D66. In this respect, I agree with Mrs Eijsink. D66 has followed a certain line in recent years. Fine. Those are political choices. However, it would fit D66 to consider its criticism within the framework of the budgetary area which it has itself laid down. Mrs Belhaj is talking about an election programme. It's minus 500 million. Then a net 65 million will be added in the autumn agreement. And then all proposals to release more money for Defense, provided by various parties in this Chamber, are not supported by D66. Then it is clear where D66 stands, but I would like Mrs Belhaj to balance that a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u32	It is very special that the CDA attaches more importance to what is happening during a D66 congress than to what is happening in this Chamber. This is where the decisions are made. Mr Knops is playing down the extra money that has been added. Forgive me if I do not say it quite correctly, but I think a total of EUR 550 million has been added in several years. In my opinion, EUR 90 million has been added in 2014, ascending, but I should be able to look that up in a moment. Mr Knops does that a bit away as "a few million." That's not true. The CDA has made other choices. It has said: we do not think it is important for this coalition to be supported at an important and difficult time; we even think it is so important to emphasize in particular that the cabinet is not doing things right that we are not even prepared to support additional investments in defence. That is what you have done, Mr Knops. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u33	I'd like to make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u34	This is a complete distortion of reality, isn't it? Really. I've been through a lot in this Chamber, but I don't have enough time for one interruption to correct how Mrs Belhaj is going about the facts here. If Mrs Belhaj now states that the resolution does not exist, she has just said, and she has not corrected it, then that is also a new fact. Then that resolution does not exist and can be removed from the website. Then I'll get her out of it right away, because then she's never filed, pre-advised or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u36	At least we'll know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u37	I notice that there was a great need to taste my kidneys when it comes to defense. I conclude by saying that I think it is right and proper to be surprised by this and I sincerely hope that the Minister will simply answer the question of exactly what happened in three and a half years and how we can be assured as soon as possible that we in the Netherlands are not fooled because we do not have the place in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u38	I'm gonna try again anyway. I hear Mrs Belhaj now literally asking what happened in three and a half years. That is the question the Minister is asked by D66. Then I get the strange feeling that I missed something in all those years that D66 was there. D66 now says, looking forward: we are very angry. But I'm going to look back and think, but D66 has been there in the last few years, hasn't it? Yes, I have heard comments and yes, on a regular basis this one and that one, from any party, has constructive criticism, but do I understand why Mrs Belhaj is already saying that D66 will not give discharge to the annual report? We'll know what we're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u39	If the PvdA gets mad at D66 because it would have chosen a wrong line in recent years, I find that very special. Again, in other Court of Auditors' reports, D66 has indeed responded critically to what the Court of Auditors had found at the time on the basis of the analysis of the annual report. That's just the facts. So I don't know why you're trying to make it clear all the time that the surprise of D66 isn't justified. Have you seen the Court's report at all? Do you realize that I cannot be satisfied with the fact that nothing happened after three and a half years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u40	I'm really known as someone who never reads reports. So in that sense, Mrs Belhaj can certainly blame me. I therefore take this kind of comment very much to heart. So no! I'm not angry; I wouldn't want to get mad at D66. Mrs. Belhaj says she's angry. "I'm angry" is her words. I'm just repeating what Mrs Belhaj is saying here. Mrs Belhaj says over and over again that nothing has happened in three and a half years. We've defeated here; we're all looking ahead and filing motions, so I'm not following exactly what D66 has as a line anymore. It would be nice if Mrs Belhaj would just respond to the question I am asking. I'm gonna try one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u41	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u42	Mrs Belhaj has now asked the Minister twice in her closing words what he has done over the past three and a half years. But we have a year's cycle here. That's why I'm surprised. Would Mrs Belhaj be willing to respond to that? Otherwise, we can also discuss the last eight years or ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u43	It's a little clearer to me now. There have been reactions and letters. The Minister has certainly solved a number of problems. But it's about results in the end. And you can't ignore the last Court of Auditors report. There are a lot of things in there that the PvdA might have found sufficient in previous letters, which made her think it would be okay. But in the end, under the line, I am concerned with the question: is it good or is it not good? This latest Court of Auditors report says that you have received letters that it would all work out, but it is not. That is why I do not go into the fact that the PvdA has had a lot of confidence in the fact that the letters were still present. Well, letters, papers, notes, debates... results, that's what D66 is for. And I note from the latest Court of Auditors report that the results are incredibly bad. And that sucks. That is why we hope that the Minister will be able to say something about it and indicate to what extent she thinks that this can be put in order as soon as possible, so that all the financial concessions that you would like to give to Defence really will lead to better defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u44	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the Minister on the arrival of the two F-35s. That's a good result. After 15 years of political decision-making, the Minister ensured that these boxes eventually came to the Netherlands. Congratulations! We have never had this good in the Netherlands since the Second World War, but at the same time we live in a world affected by geopolitical earthquakes and disruptive upheavals. Because of Russia's very aggressive attitude, war in Europe is no longer unthinkable. Venezuela, a neighbouring country of our Kingdom, is about to collapse, 30 kilometres from Aruba, with all its consequences. Terrorists seek their way to Europe to bring death and destruction here. People in the Netherlands are very concerned about these developments. The VVD recognizes that. They are dangerous threats to our freedom, security and way of life. We must not look away from that. Our armed forces, together with the domestic police and the security services, must be prepared for these threats in order to protect the Netherlands. The Minister has also seen this, because at the beginning of 2013 she presented the paper In the interest of the Netherlands. The main objectives are to protect its own territory, participate in international operations to enhance the stability and improvement of the rule of law, and contribute to national security under civilian authority. We in the Chamber still have to take these main objectives into account. That doesn't mean new paper exercises. Meeting all these goals requires a lot of our military. The Court of Auditors could not have made it clearer: only 59% of our units are operational in a responsible manner in the opinion of the Court of Auditors. Military missions, however important for the motivation of military personnel, can only be carried out with roofing, sometimes on personnel, and cannibalization of equipment. There are too few spare parts for the equipment and the replacement of obsolete equipment. The VVD notes that the Defence budget is too low to maintain the current level of ambition. But even worse, the main long-term objectives set by the Minister cannot be fulfilled in this way permanently. Twenty years of budget cuts on Defense has taken its toll. The armed forces are being eroded from the inside out. Let us be clear, no party in this Chamber can wash her hands in innocence. As a VVD, we are also responsible for this. We did the same in 2011. In recent years there has been a lot of work to put things in order with the Defense Department; I must compliment the Secretary of State. We would like to congratulate the Minister on this. It has made the problems transparent, has been able to adjust the downward trend and has been one of the first rulers in the defence sector to make real progress in international cooperation with other countries. It pays off and asks for appreciation. The VVD has used the scarce space on the state budget in recent years to enforce a trend break. With the intensifications that have taken place under this minister since 2014, we are talking about more than 600 million in structural terms. Is that enough for the armed forces in the coming years? No, definitely not. Is it an achievement in scale at a time of drastic austerity? Sure you do! We must therefore recognise that recovery is a long-term process. Calling for everything to be in order tomorrow is politically attractive, but very easy and also misleading. Twenty years of austerity doesn't turn into a tenth of the time. The rising line must be continued. The VVD wants to take responsibility for getting Defense back on its feet, but other parties have to do the same, including the SGP. A safe Netherlands is not just a right-wing hobby. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u45	I was already announced by Mr Teeven in his closing speech. What more do you want? Mr Teeven says that you cannot make up for 20 years of austerity in two years. That's right. We've spent the last few years adding money. However, it is important that you take a step every year. Now, of course, Mr Teeven behind the scenes is hard at negotiating the Spring Note and the new Defence budget. What exactly is the VVD going to do, except for these beautiful words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u46	Mr Dijkgraaf knows that over the last few years we have been side by side with the SGP Group trying to add money. That has happened, and so has this Minister. Looking at, for example, the year 2018, I have to conclude with Mr Dijkgraaf that there is still a gap of about 250 million between the cuts that have been made under Rutte I and the repairs that this minister in Rutte II has managed to achieve. So we're not here yet. Let me give a specific answer to Mr Dijkgraaf. I think 2017 is a difficult year. We have heard the Minister of Finance say a number of times that there is little extra money. That goes for the Justice Department and for the Defense Department. It is therefore a matter for the cabinet of making choices in the last budget, but that is not what we are here for. We will also have to join forces after the 2017 elections to make sure that the Defense Department gets on top of it. That is why the Van der Staaij 2 motion adopted is so beautiful. This minister has laid down good building blocks. It has laid the foundations, but it lacks time and, above all, money to finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u47	They are beautiful words in themselves, but they can also mean that no more cents will be added until 2018. That cannot be the case if you take a look at the conclusions of the Court of Auditors' report. The Minister of Finance always says we're out of money. That's his job. That's what we hired him for. Surely it is the intention, including the VVD, to reverse that budget and to help a good deal in the direction of the 2 billion that the Minister has mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u48	The VVD Group has co-signed the Van der Staaij 2 motion in the right sense, and even a little more than common sense. I almost said Dijkgraaf 2, but let's keep the name Van der Staaij 2 in honor, because everyone in defense knows it by now. We did that in our right mind. This means that we must do everything we can to ensure that we continue to take a step in the right direction for the 2017 budget as well. That's what I'm saying here today. This Minister committed that trend break in 2014. These steps have been taken, up to 600 million in 2018, but 2017 should not become a lost year either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u49	A final remark? No? It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u50	You are invited by the President to make a final comment, so that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u51	It is a good President who gives the Chamber ample opportunity to ask questions. We'll hold the VVD to that. We have fought side by side over the last few years. I hope that next year we will be able to move towards the Spring Paper and certainly towards the budget, and that this motion, which was adopted by a large part of the Chamber, will really be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u52	The VVD will do so on the basis of financial solidity. That's what we've always seen in the SGP. Mr Dijkgraaf made a number of statements from the loose wrist: many billions added for the next financial year. I did wonder this morning and yesterday where the SGP is getting all these resources. Where does the coverage of the SGP come from for all those billions for Defence in the financial year 2017? This was actually a reaction from me to Mr Dijkgraaf's comment at the end of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u53	Yes. Mr Dijkgraaf will have four minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u54	I enjoyed Mr Teeven's input. It reminded me of times gone by: order of business, trend break. I've heard that before. The question is what is the situation with regard to this order of business and the break in the trend against both the NATO report and the report of the Court of Auditors? Mr Teeven cannot insist that there has been a real trend break and that things have been put in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u55	I checked it out. The Chamber has received a beautiful letter from the Minister of Finance dated 14 January 2016 with a state indicating how things have developed.You haven't been afraid since 1814. In 1832, King Willem I went to war in Belgium. Then you can see that defense expenditure is rising explosively. Then you see an increase between 1914 and 1918. The Netherlands then had to mobilise because it was neutral in the First World War. Cort van der Linden, one of the few liberal prime ministers, was Prime Minister of the cabinet at the time. As Liberals, we do have a history that we always take responsibility for. Then you see a steadily falling line, whether they were liberal cabinets with Christian Democrats or Christian Democrats with Social Democrats, even in the purple period. I think, in the direction of Mr Knops, that it is our task to try to continue this upward trend of investment over the next few years. The Minister has done so since 2013. I actually think it's a comment you shouldn't make right now, but you'd almost say that with Putin at your borders, it's not capitulating. I think that's true. If you notice that, then that line has to be bent down, because this is a line that goes down steadily. I agree with Mr Knops. That's how you're gonna be the laughingstock of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u56	Coincidentally, I had that stand by my hand. I can see that 1.06% of GDP was allocated in 2014. What it's going to be in 2015 and beyond is just the question. This also depends on what the minister is going to do in the belly or on what the cabinet is doing with the minister in the belly. Mr Teeven has just said that 59% of the equipment can be used, but that is 59% of its own objectives set by the Defense Department. The Court's report is very clear: the constitutional task, based on your own stated objectives, cannot be fulfilled in this way. Mr Teeven is normally very clear. He was, too, so I'm assuming he's perfectly clear about this. What is Mr Teeven's political opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u57	The political judgment is that you will only do security a service if you invest in it over the next few years. This applies to both the domestic component and the foreign component. That's why I was talking about the armed forces, the police and other services. In other words, the military must also invest billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u58	That's exactly what I have a question about. Mr Teeven says that more investment is needed. The Minister said some things about it. Minister Dijsselbloem likes that. How much of the VVD is gonna be in the DOD next year? Perhaps Mr Teeven can just mention a figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u59	These are, of course, negotiations that are taking place in the bosom of the cabinet. The Minister will have to clarify this and perhaps give it to us as a Chamber. The VVD hopes that a good start will be made in the 2017 financial year, so that in 2018, in the next cabinet period up to 2021, we can continue that steady line. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to make a great deal of difference in the negotiations this year. That's the VVD's bet. Looking at the financial developments and the communications from the Minister of Finance, we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u60	I would like to repeat my question, because I hear 'a rising line' and'more investment'. Again, how much of the VVD, regardless of what the Minister thinks, should be recovered? Should there be 1 billion, 2 billion, 3 billion, 4 billion, 500 million? What is the lower limit of the VVD, if you want to remain credible when you say you think there's more money to go to the DOD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u61	I went over that motion from the D66 Congress. It was not asked for a sudden increase in the growth path to that 2% in Wales, but this had to be done gradually. To Mr Knops' replies, Mrs Belhaj just led the Chamber to believe that a single blow had to be made. I thought it was a very reasonable motion, in which it was said that, over the next few years, over a longer period, in the next cabinet period, we had to work towards that growth path. That is exactly the rising line I am advocating here tonight. I think Mrs Belhaj does not blame me for not knowing what the Minister is getting out of the negotiations for the next few years. We will have to wait and see for the financial year 2017. What happens after that is part of the election and a cabinet formation that follows. Let it be clear that the VVD's commitment to that reign is to spend billions more on Defense. I really need to leave it at that. If Mrs Belhaj asks how much it is, it gets complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u62	Yes, you should leave it at that. I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u63	It is good that the motion is now well explained. It says: ultimately comply with NATO standards. That's about 8 billion. If Mr Teeven likes the D66 motion, I would almost think he would want us to grow to 8 billion as soon as possible. I won't put that to him again. I can tell that the VVD would actually like, apart from the negotiations, that next year there will be just a few billion more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u64	The answer is yes. There can be no misunderstanding about that either, because we have already mentioned this a few times in various gremia, also in public. There can be no misunderstanding that billions will have to be added in the next period of government. That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u65	The elections are approaching and the false promises of the VVD are increasing again. We can see it now: billions added, rising line. Mr. Bitch is putting on very big pants. May I remind you that with the policy of the VVD, this Minister must tell our military pang during exercises, F-16s do not have satellite communications if they are to bomb in Syria and the reserveists have not been trained, Mr Teeven? Under your regime, with your policy, and with this minister, you have called it over the armed forces. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u66	May I remind Mr Bontes that, as a member of the PVV Group, during the period 2010-2012, he bears co-responsibility for the 832 million cuts that are now so painful to the military, for whom he now claims to stand up with a somewhat false undertone? Mr Bontes seems to have forgotten that he was part of a government group, or at least a group that supported the government, which also supported that policy. Then he shouldn't say the VVD talks with double tongue. We don't talk with double tongue. We take responsibility for the cuts that have been made over the period 2010-2010. It would be a credit to Mr Bontes if he remembered that he was in this Parliament at the time and that he also signed up for these cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u67	Mr Teeven actually shows that he is a faint man by making such a remark from the PVV-time. Let me explain. I was in a group where there was hardly any participation. You didn't have much say in that. It's a party run by one man. Mr Teven knows that too. If I'd made my criticism harder, I'd have kicked it out before. In that respect, I couldn't do more than I did. If I'm being completely honest with you, I'm sorry I didn't go against those cuts at the time. Now we are in a new situation with a new party, for the Netherlands, with a new policy. What we say is also true. We say: meet the NATO standard, meet the NATO standard in the following periods. Will Mr. Bitch do the same with his VVD? Will he comply with the NATO standard, which means that 2% of the gross national product will be spent on Defence? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u68	The VVD Group in the Chamber is extremely aware of the fact that this Minister and the Prime Minister undertook to work towards a growth path of 2% in Wales in 2014. So yes, the VVD wants that growth path to reach 2%. We also believe that this is necessary, given the status of the armed forces at the moment. So the answer is yes. We want that 2% to be achieved, but we want it to be realistic at a time when we do not want to throw the financial solidity overboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u69	Finally, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u70	I wonder if it's really gonna happen, because a lot of VVD promises don't come true. We all know that, but I hope this will come true. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u71	I welcome the self-knowledge of Mr Bontes, who remembered that he had also signed up for these cuts in the years 2010-2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u72	I would almost like to ask what is really about the defence position of Leefbaar Nederland, when it comes to people who used to be with another party. But this aside. I would like to ask Mr Teeven what he actually thinks about this 2% standard. NATO's 2% standard comes from the Cold War decades ago, which is now being mentioned. Does Mr Teven not agree with me that he should use his own mind rather than stick to a 2% standard which is incredibly relative? For example, we have the situation that the Netherlands is spending a little extra money on Defence, but that you do not notice that percentage because the gross domestic product is rising even more. Isn't about 2% standard a little crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u73	No, we don't think that's crazy. We also think that you should stick to that 2% standard. If you read back the letter from the Minister of Finance, you can see that during the Cold War, spending in the Netherlands always exceeded 2% of gross domestic product. Only after relaxation came after the fall of the Wall, did they fall below the standard of 2% of gross domestic product. This has led to a rapid fall in defence expenditure in the Netherlands in the 1990s. I think that is Mr Van Dijk's question. I think you should take a look at the condition of our armed forces. The motivation of the staff is affected by the fact that they have to work with equipment that is not always top-notch. That equipment is on-and-top when soldiers go on mission, but soldiers who are left behind in the Netherlands, do not work with material of that quality. I also think that you should look at the replacement of spare parts and at the rest of the ammo tipping. So yes, I think the growth path to 2% is realistic. I am also pleased that the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister have agreed to this with NATO partners in Wales. I think that is very important, and I have heard the reports from the Americans. In America there are sounds that show that they are a little tired of doing it all for Western Europe. In America it is said that Western Europe too must stop the pants itself. That is also a good signal to the SP fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u74	Mr Teeven has the absolute right to argue for additional expenditure on defence. I also think it is justified if he then supports that with arguments, which he has just done. So I think that is much more sensible than simply sticking to a 2% standard. We also had such a standard for development cooperation. We can talk about that, too. There is such a standard for culture. 1% of national spending must go to culture. I never hear the VVD about that, but this 2% standard for Defense is sacred. Isn't that a little crazy and relative? Such a standard is relative. After all, you could also opt for 3%, or 1%, if times change. That's the kind of standards you could defend. Isn't it better to let go of such a standard, Mr. Bitch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u75	No, I don't think it's okay to let go of that norm. This is also evident from history since 1814. You also need to learn a little from the mistakes that have been made in the past. Just before the Second World War, resources for defence also fell. That's gonna cost us. So you shouldn't do that. You have to learn from history, and you have to stick to such a standard. But you have to argue that. At this time, security in the Netherlands and in Europe is being compromised and the threat is growing. I don't think in that time you can compare with the norm of culture. I think that is a somewhat strange comparison from Mr Van Dijk. He asks me where the VVD Group is going to get the money for that extra spending on Defense. In my view, there will have to be a shift in the balance between money for development cooperation and money for hard security through defence and the internal police. We've been thinking about that in the VVD Group. Perhaps the standard for development cooperation should be lowered in a subsequent cabinet period. Then there can be more money to hard security. So that's where the money could come from. So at the VVD we also thought about how to maintain that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u76	Mr Van Dijk has the floor for a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u77	The VVD makes choices. Mr. Teeven chooses to think defence is important. I note that 5 of the 28 NATO countries comply with that 2% standard. All these other countries haven't lived up to it for years. That standard is therefore very relative. Mr Teeven has just tried to trivialize the importance of culture. I want to remind him of Winston Churchill's fine words. I'm sure Mr. Teven thinks he's a good politician. When it was said to Churchill: Prime Minister, we have to cut back on culture because we have to wage war against Germany, he said: but if we do so, why are we still at war?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u78	I would remind Mr Van Dijk of a remark made by the President of the Kurdish Republic in northern Iraq. I think it belongs to a sister party of the SP. This president said: you have to make sure your country is safe and you have the basic care for your people in order, and then you can start thinking about other frivolities. I would like to remind Mr Van Dijk of these words from someone from a sister party of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u79	After Mr Van Dijk's daunting words about this standard, I would like to encourage the VVD once again to stick to that 2% standard. That standard is linked to the GNP. In the last six years, in which the VVD was in the coalition, it has only deteriorated. Mr Teeven, the spokesperson for the VVD, now says that expenditure needs to be increased. What timeline does he have in mind? Within what time should this 2% standard be reached again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u80	In my opinion, we should get it again in the next cabinet period and the subsequent cabinet period. Even if in the next cabinet period the Defence budget is raised by 1 billion or 1.2 billion a year, you will not reach that 2% in 2021. So you have to continue even in the years after 2021. It has to be done. I can tell Mr Voordewind that the VVD Group also recognises that the cuts in 2011 have been substantial under the Rutte I cabinet. That's what you're seeing in the Defense Department right now. That needs to be corrected. That takes more time, because you must also keep in mind the financial soundness that the Christian Union and we attach extraordinary importance to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u81	It's always nice to talk about the future, but the last six years the VVD has ruled. She rules for another year. What will be the commitment of the VVD for the coming financial year? After all, she has one more year to go: until 2017. If Mr Bitch translates that 2%, will he go for the 1.2 billion extra on the defence budget? At least he makes this minister very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u82	We make this minister very happy, but as Mr Voordewind knows, the VVD and the Labour Party have jointly concluded a coalition agreement. There are arrangements made in that. So I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf and others in this Chamber that a good start must be made on the new cabinet period. Moreover, Mr Voordewind should not pretend that all the problems of the armed forces have arisen since 2010. I have spoken in my speech about a period of 20 years. This Minister must correct this in a tenth of the time. And I believe that during the period 2006-2010 Minister Middelkoop has been at the helm. At the same time, there were considerable gaps in the defense apparatus. Let me remind Mr Voordewind of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u83	That is something that Mr Teeven needs to take a closer look at, because in that cabinet money has been added for the preparation and the operations, but let us not have that discussion. My specific question was as follows. Mr Teeven says: I am not going to make the 1.2 billion for 2017 with the Labour Party. What does he see as the commitment of the VVD? Is that 700 million, 800 million? What's he thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u84	The minister's busy. It does not make much sense, certainly not for the negotiations that it is currently conducting, that I am going to be the room in which the VVD and this minister are unable to make progress. Let the Minister conclude those negotiations. Then the Chamber will hear it. But a good step must be taken towards the next period of government. I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u85	Mr Teeven mentioned a roadmap to grow to that 2% GNP standard. A while ago, I tabled a motion that literally states: calls on the government to come up with a roadmap to grow to a GDP standard. And he doesn't support her! How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u86	I do not have the text of the motion with me at the moment. I shall have to study it for a moment, because Mr Bontes always has the venom in the tail. I'm gonna have to read her right first. Then I'd like to get back to you in second term. If Mr Bontes has the motion put on my desk, I will take a good look at it. Then he gets a good and thorough reaction in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u87	I'm curious. I put it on Mr Teeven's desk, but this shows again: a big mouth but no butter on the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u88	It is a bit like Mr Bontes, I would almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u89	I give the floor to Mr Bontes for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u90	I'm gonna go get my stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u91	Fine. In the meantime, I can say that it is a pity that we did not have this debate in the afternoon, because then all the benches were full of school classes. They would have had a whole history lesson here, but unfortunately. We have it now in the evening and the classes are gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u92	Mr. Chairman. Either they pay or they have to leave. That's what the Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said about the freeriders within NATO. Of course he was right in his criticism. For many years, European countries such as the Netherlands have abandoned their defence obligations and are abandoning their allies. While we are at war with IS and the Russian threat is increasing, in our country the culture of flower power and the broken rifle still prevails. Our armed forces are not even capable of defending their own territory at the moment. This is not only contrary to NATO agreements but also to our Constitution. It's an embarrassing display, courtesy of the VVD. NATO is therefore quite rightly critical of the total lack of employability of the armed forces. The Secretary of Defense says in response that there is work to be done. We've been hearing that for years. Where are the results? How much money will the DOD get next year? How are the commitments made now being met? I'd like to get a response. We have said it before: our armed forces do not need millions but billions. Over the last two years, my group has tabled four motions to achieve this, but four times there has been virtually no support from this Chamber. We'll try again today. VNL continues to fight for the armed forces. Our country must comply with NATO standards as soon as possible. That's why over 5 billion more will have to go to the Defense Department in the next few years. Our military deserve it and the Netherlands deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u93	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a compliment. The Minister has paid a great deal of attention to transparency over the last period. See also the NATO report we are discussing today. In addition, the Minister has also provided more insight into Defence in the Netherlands. However, this also makes it painfully clear how things stand now, which is not good. NATO and the Court of Auditors confirm this. I agree that there should be more money for the Defense Department; but money follows plans and we have to make choices. Of course, I assume that there will be a substantial amount for 2017. A start must be made to achieve the NATO objectives. I therefore challenge the Minister to obtain as much money as possible from the Minister for Finance. Instead of overbiding each other with outstanding amounts, we should look at how we can work together to solve the problems in the Defense Department. We must make multi-annual plans; let us take steps in this direction. Mrs Eijsink has already made a good move towards a multiannual perspective. Hard choices must also be made. We can't do everything. Either you do it right or you don't. A little bit of everything doesn't work. I am therefore critical of the purchase of the F-35, the new submarines and all other material investments. Look critically at what you really need and where we can make a difference in international cooperation. Asking for more money and then not spending it can no longer be done. It is a thorn in my eye that the realization is lagging behind the estimate. The Court of Auditors has produced a fine table which is significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u95	Sorry, two more lines. Structurally it has been estimated above the NATO standard, but the implementation is well below that standard. Can the Minister give a realistic estimate for 2017 and thus give a good advance, hopefully with the money we need? Maybe we should say no once and not always just "we can do," because that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u96	Mr. Chairman. For once, it was yes, we can do. It was great to watch the live stream last night. I, too, enjoyed the arrival of our two F-35s. The reason for this debate is the yellow map that NATO has drawn for the Netherlands. Although the Netherlands has put an end to the trend of falling Defence spending, NATO believes that the Netherlands is not committed enough to adapt the military forces to the changed security environment. NATO considers it necessary to improve the readiness and employability of the entire military force. Furthermore, the armed forces must have units capable of maintaining themselves at the highest level of violence. That's what's in the review this minister sent to the Chamber. My compliments, because peer pressure within NATO Member States is important. I have once again checked with my colleagues from other Member States within the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I managed to pull some of those peer reviews, but not all of them. It is a good thing that we are talking tonight about the openness that the Minister gives on this subject, at the request of the Chamber but certainly also because she wants it. The PvdA has a number of questions about this. Reference has already been made to the Court of Auditors' report. We read in that report that it is increasingly difficult for the armed forces to defend the alliance territory. The Netherlands has also achieved this through the media, which has given the public debate on the military a new dimension, namely that of its own security. Self-security is a central task of the government. Military personnel shall monitor airspace, clean up explosives, be involved in crisis situations, emergency response, surveillance and security tasks, in close cooperation with municipalities, justice, police and fire department and public administration. Internationally, in the light of the deteriorating security situation in Europe, an improvement in the readiness and employability of the Dutch armed forces as a whole is necessary. Right now, we're spending 1.14% of GDP on Defense. On 8 March last, the letter was published setting out the state of play of the multiannual prospects for the further strengthening of the armed forces, as a result of the second motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Staaij. On the basis of this letter, I ask the Minister what we can expect from this effect. After all, Warsaw is coming. We've walked the path from Wales to Warsaw. In Wales the 2% was discussed. In Warsaw, this needs to be further developed. I would ask the Minister to look further at the multiannual perspective, because that is what this is about. Is the Minister prepared to discuss within the government whether the multiannual perspective would also give rise to multiannual plans? The Minister knows very well what I mean by that. My next point concerns the comments from the United States. They are an ally and one of the Member States within NATO, but one that is 70%, if not more, responsible and takes responsibility for what is necessary for our security. Once again, security is a core task of the government. Two weeks ago, I was in the United States in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO. It is clear that NATO and NATO member the United States are saying to us more than ever: get your act together. Actually, they went a lot further. I'd almost say the message is get your ass together. I'm just repeating what we're told. Let me say straight away that it is not my words, but it has never been said so clearly before. That's what worries me. We have to take that responsibility, whether it be the 2%, which we are about to ask questions about, or not. I ask the Minister to respond. What path are we going to take at the NATO summit in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July? That is a very important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u97	I'm asking the same question to the PvdA. Mr Teeven was very clear about that. He says that 2% is like a house and we have to go there. How's the PvdA in there? Is its position exactly the same as that of the VVD or does it have its own opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u98	When Mr Van Dijk just asked Mr Teeven this question, I thought the following. For some time now the SP has been in favour of membership of the Netherlands of NATO. The agreements were made in that connection. We signed an autograph. So we have an obligation to NATO. You could argue about that 2%. Why do I say that? I already predict that I will not give the answer that Mr Van Dijk expects from me. The budgets of the 28 Member States are different. Of the 8.2 that we now have in the Netherlands, 1.1 billion can be removed, because that amount is seen on pensions. The budget of the Netherlands is therefore 7.1. In France, for example, the gendarmerie counts. Greece spends 2% within the NATO standard. Where did the 2% come from? This has to do, among other things, with defence equipment in Germany. I'm just giving you a few examples. So, yeah, you can talk about it, but that's not the most important message. I, too, have the letter of 14 January with the overview from 1814 to 2014. It is good to have a directive, but we have to agree better on what the purity of that 2% would be. The PvdA is in Rutte II. We signed these agreements in Warsaw. Excuse me, I mean Wales. We're going to Warsaw now. It is important to consider the time frame within which this can be met. The commitment is paramount and the commitments, NATO standards, are paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u99	Too bad. I had hoped that the PvdA would adopt a more autonomous position and that it would not stick to the 2% standard. Personally, I think it's more like the VVD. Anyway, Mrs. Eijsink is free to follow the VVD in that. Can Mrs Eijsink explain again exactly what she is trying to do with her multi-annual agreements? Does it perhaps want to achieve that 2%? Can she explain again how it intends to eliminate democracy precisely in that plan to set the budget for defence on a multiannual basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u100	Let me begin with Mr Van Dijk's comment. I thank him for that. I'm very autonomous in this. I do not follow any party other than the Labour Party on this point, because security is a core task of the government. This means NATO obligations, our own constitutional obligations and European obligations. As far as I know, the SP still supports NATO membership. She has been supporting this weather for a number of years. In this respect, I would expect more knowledge from Mr Van Dijk. Mr Van Dijk then asked about the multiannual agreements. They're called "multi-annual Defence Accords." The President says that I need to be shorter, but it is a very long question and sometimes the answer is long. In recent years, at least for the short time I have been in the Chamber as a representative of the people, we have never served a full period of office. Never. A full cabinet period is four to five years, including the coalition negotiations. This means that there have been many changes to our security tasks, both nationally and internationally. Firstly, I would like to repeat once again that we have international agreements. The SP is also in favour of the Netherlands within NATO. The SP has signed an autograph. The Netherlands has signed an agreement. We are not a freerider: we have obligations. The principle of "one for all, all for one" in Articles 4 and 5 counts. Secondly, there is national our own Constitution. That means we have obligations. They are a core task of the government. In recent years, there has been no stability, predictability and continuity towards the military and towards our own task and responsibility. It is important, apart from party politics, that we talk about what security is about. That is what I was trying to do, and many with me now, with this discussion. The question is what we can arrange together at the front and what we have in common with each other on the front. Those are the international agreements again. The Netherlands does not only function in Europe. The Netherlands does not function without neighbouring countries. That does not mean that we are giving up our powers from the Parliament. Not at all. That just means a normal annual budget, a normal annual planning, et cetera. That does not mean that budget rights and amendments are given away. Of course, they're gonna stay there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u101	If you not only argue for a 2% standard for Defense but also for multi-annual agreements, you will, as far as I am concerned, overtake the VVD on the right. Defence naturally welcomes this plea, unless Mrs Eijsink now says: no, budget law just stays with the House of Representatives and we can just keep doing everything we could always do. But then Mrs Eijsink does symbolic politics. The proposal for multi-annual agreements is therefore nothing. What is it, is Defense being kept out of the House of Representatives or is everything the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u102	I would have expected nothing less from Mr Van Dijk. I am not arguing for the 2% standard. If I were Mr Van Dijk, I would read the Acts again when they were written out. I'm not arguing for that. I call for a real approach to defence. It is not desirable for Mr Van Dijk to put my words in my mouth. I advise him to reread the Acts tomorrow. I call for stability, predictability and continuity from the responsibility for security of us as representatives of the people. In there, it's about the role of the armed forces. I would like to say the following to Mr Van Dijk on the multiannual plans. I first discussed this initiative with colleagues two years ago. Mr Knops was on the many trips we make with NATO Parliamentary Assembly to the countries that have the same. I have made this informal with colleagues for some time now. I've been organizing meetings for colleagues for a long time. I do not recall Mr Van Dijk ever being there. You can always do that. I say immediately that the agendas are busy, but I have always been open in discussions about them. Nothing's been decided at all. There are reports and thoughts. Why is it okay to have this conversation with each other? Examples too much. In 2010, under Rutte I, 1.1 billion was cut by the VVD and the CDA, with the support of the PVV. Yes, this was also in the party program of the Labour Party. We can all point each other out. Who had fun with that? Nobody. Not military, not civilians, not us. We can beat each other up with what we've done over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u103	I'm gonna step in because it's too long for me. I'd like you to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u104	I will. In April 2012 the cabinet fell and at that time all plans of Rutte I were just in execution. There we were all, but the plans were implemented. Rutte II, in which the Labour Party is in, added more money. That's a trend break. We can go on like this for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u105	We're not gonna do that. I call Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u106	I am going to put my question to the PvdA as concretely as possible. I hear the PvdA now saying that it is important for them to comply with international agreements. I may hear 2%, but maybe I'm wrong. If it's not 2%, what is it for the PvdA? So can that also mean that the PvdA supports the VVD in its plea that there should be many billions for defence and that this should already be settled in this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u107	I repeat: your blind staring at 2% is not good, but it is the agreements, or at least the line and the trend break upwards, which we all discussed in Wales. I also recall very well that D66 supported this in the various debates. That's one. It has nothing to do with the VVD; I have had an independent position in this for years, I say to Mrs Belhaj. You might want to read a few pieces. I have just lost Mrs Belhaj's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u108	I know that Mrs Eijsink has been a spokesperson for the Defense Department for years and has been saying many things about it, but my question is very simple. Will the next budget, in line with the wishes of the PvdA, be able or not to bring back a specific amount which is due to the construction which Mrs Eijsink is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u109	This is precisely the discussion that we are trying to avoid by means of a multi-annual agreement. I have no choice but to say that this is becoming a game of peeing for the word "sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry for the word "Sorry Anyone here can make a promise. Anyone can talk about billions every now and then. Anyone here can promise anything, but that doesn't help anyone. There's no point in expressing that here. That doesn't help our military at all. The point is that, as political parties, we take responsibility for security together. And these international agreements are in place, so it is better to have the discussion in front of each other than to have sixteen electoral programmes with something else in it. And, yes, tonight we are talking about the shortcomings, about the yellow map of NATO. So we have no choice but to discuss this with each other. We'll do that in the interviews tomorrow, among other things. It's too easy to pee the game here even further. I'm not gonna be a part of that. It concerns plans first and then the elaboration and possibly more resources. And everyone...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u110	A final remark from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u111	I don't think it was about peeing at all. I think it was just a question. It is the question that many Dutch people have: does Mrs Eijsink already want or not to settle something in the forthcoming budget, to do justice to her statement that it is so important that there is a build-up in it? That's a very simple question, isn't it? That's not a question of peeing, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u112	Yeah, that's a very simple question. Mrs Belhaj did not say anything about this in her own speech. She does ask all kinds of questions to others but doesn't give any substance. I stand by it: it is now up to the Minister to reply. And yes, I believe that if we had a very large savings fund, we would all agree that there should be more resources for security. For it is not about the armed forces in that sense; it is about security and within it about our armed forces and the responsibilities that we all bear. So it's a very simple question, but I can't answer it. I do not want to answer it either, because it is up to the government to come up with this. Anyone who mentions amounts tonight can stand here again in the next debate. We are talking about our shortcomings this evening and about the yellow card that NATO has given us, but I have not heard anyone give a solution to that. Everyone mentions a lot of amounts, but they are not going to come true; I can assure you that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u113	I have heard a number of questions from the Labour Party to the Cabinet and to the Minister, among other things, about the timetable and how we can move on to that 2%. Questions are of course open, but the Labour Party is not just a party. She is a member of the coalition and will undoubtedly negotiate behind the scenes with the VVD on the deployment of this cabinet for next year, but that is not yet possible. Mr Teeven just said that 1.2 billion would be a little too much of a good thing, but that he does want to make a big leap forward. I say to Mr Angelien Eijsink: you are talking about your own words. But what words will be used to encourage the Minister not only to this timetable, but also to encourage it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u114	I give the floor to Mrs Eijsink.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u115	That is a very fair question from Mr Voordewind. I would just like to take up the letter of 8 March, because it contains the state of play regarding the development of the multiannual perspective. We have already discussed this in one of our debates, and I have asked the Minister to further develop it, because it is of course important. The Minister said she was going to elaborate on the path from Wales to Warsaw, just to mention it. So if it's okay, the Minister will come up with that. I hope she will bring that up tonight and otherwise for the debate on the Summit in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u116	These are very understandable questions, and I am curious to hear them. However, if we were merely to ask questions to the Minister, we would no longer have an interrupting debate here. Mrs Eijsink is part of the coalition and what the Minister thinks should be supported by a majority of the Chamber. Mr Teeeven was just as clear. Could Mrs Eijsink also make it clear what she invites or challenges the Minister with regard to that timetable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u117	I challenge the Minister to link her multiannual perspective to multiannual plans. I think there's a whole world behind that that we're going to discuss tomorrow during the round table. If we could all give more hands and feet to that, that would be very nice. It is not an equal budget, it is a question of what we all want and what is the content of our armed forces and our treaties. We could give hands and feet to that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u118	Like Mrs Eijsink, I am very much in favour of the content, but without money there is no content; that is what the Court of Auditors says. That's how it works. Can I at least conclude that the Labour Party believes that additional resources should be added in 2017 so that more can be devoted to the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u119	I would rather draw my own conclusions, and Mr Voordewind does not have to do so for me. I assume, even when I hear what the Court of Auditors says about it, that this government is going to look very closely at it during the preparation. After all, it is our basic tasks and I believe that I have mentioned a number of times that security is a core task of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u120	I too had a bit of the same feeling as Mr Voordewind, namely that there are many questions being asked and that there is a lot of attention for multiannual agreements. Given the results of the Court of Auditors' report and the conclusion reached by Mrs Eijsink herself, can it not be different that there is a imbalance between ambition and resources? Given the unsafe situation in the world, isn't there just one button you can turn: the resource button? In this debate, Mrs Eijsink is perfectly capable of giving some guidance on this matter. I do not need to make any figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u121	I understand that question, but I would like to repeat what I said to Mr Voordewind about the government and the Court of Auditors report. I started my speech with the NATO review, and I think it is equally important, because that is what we are talking about tonight. If we read the NATO review correctly, I would almost say that it contains a yellow card, with a red border. I think I've said enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u122	Mrs Eijsink has said a lot, but I still have a question. She always refers to the Minister. Many questions have indeed been asked to the Minister and they will be answered shortly, but I think it is also relevant for this debate that one of the largest parties in this Chamber is trying to be as clear as possible, in order to encourage the Minister to do good things under her responsibility. I hear a lot of interesting things in the analysis, but in my opinion the political judgment is lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u123	I can imagine this remark, but I am not going to mention amounts tonight. I did not say it for nothing: NATO's preview is a yellow card. I take it you take a yellow card very seriously, just like in football. I'm looking at the government. I'm not gonna name any figures. I won't be part of that, because we have bad experiences with that. I have some thoughts about it, of course, but I'd like to leave it to the Minister. We are having more debates over the coming period and we are about to have a legislative consultation on the Court's reports. I assume the Minister is taking NATO's yellow card seriously and is going to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u124	If Mrs Eijsink does not want to mention amounts, which I regret, my question is what would be a satisfactory outcome to this debate for her. What answer from the Minister can Mrs Eijsink please leave the premises tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u125	That is a clear question. We'll follow up on plans. Everyone who talks about resources tonight, I sometimes fail to understand, because you first need to know what choices you make, including from the Court of Auditors report. You need to look very closely at what you do and what you don't do with the NATO review. The Court's report clearly indicates that a number of tasks may not be possible. The Court of Auditors report tells us that a number of ambitions may have to be reduced. First, plans must be made and then the resources will follow. I think this is of the utmost importance. Anyone who mentions amounts tonight, I could ask what choices he makes. We don't have very good experiences with that. I'd like to leave it to our armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u126	Mr. Chairman. Attacks and violent outbursts in Europe, Russia invades Eastern Ukraine, Islamic terrorism, civil wars in Iraq and Syria and competition between major powers for oil and influence: this wakes up the Netherlands. I find the profit of this debate, without the Minister saying anything, and we are now with the eighth speaker, who is all in favour of extra money. That is a good thing. Actually, my question to the Minister is very simple. When we asked this minister three and a half years ago if she could rule out the need to cut back on defence, she said she couldn't rule that out. We're past that point. We have fought hard over the last few years and colleagues have already said what they need to do in order to get extra money for Defence. I'm happy about that, and I defended it. We have played an important role in this together with D66, the Christian Union and, of course, the coalition that has gone along with it. One thing is crystal clear to me: that money is not enough. As colleagues have pointed out in the report of the General Court, the maintenance process is not in order, there is insufficient support capacity and there is too little investment budget for new, advanced equipment. In short, there is a lack of armed forces. The Minister will not deny it in a moment. She won't answer that it's all okay and that it's all okay. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then why does the Minister come with the 1.43% target? That is to return to what, fortunately, I hear a lot of colleagues say here, namely to go to 2%. 1.43% is only the EU and NATO average. NATO says to the Netherlands: you simply have to deliver, you should not show freeriders behavior, certainly not as a prosperous country like the Netherlands, so just deliver that 2%. Does the Minister agree? Is that 1.43% at most an intermediate target and should it ultimately go to that 2%? I haven't heard the Minister say anything about a timetable so far. If the Minister says 1.43%, that may also mean that this percentage will have to be achieved over a period of 20 years. That's not supposed to happen, is it? This must be possible in the foreseeable future, say two cabinet periods, as Mr Teeven said. This requires much more than the steps we have taken so far, and that is where my main question lies. If we keep working on 200 million or 300 million each time and make the amount dependent on the financial space, as Mr Teeven said, and so no longer do, we will never get there. You already need 200 million to keep up with economic growth. If you want to get to that 2% in the short term, then there will really have to be substantial steps. The big question is whether this cabinet is prepared to do so. I hear beautiful lyrics from Mrs Eijsink. I also hear what the VVD says. I hear many colleagues in the Chamber express broad support. I would therefore say: that should be possible, shouldn't it? It's for our safety, the core task number one of the government. Then we must ensure that we really get to that 2% quickly so that we can guarantee the safety of the people in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u127	Mr. Chairman. While yesterday the JSF engines and the public relations campaign were on the verge of doing so, it remained very quiet around all kinds of problem files at the Department of Defense. After all, there are still considerable shortages of ammunition and spare parts. Military personnel still need to simulate the shooting sounds during exercises. Action on foot is sometimes necessary because of a lack of functioning vehicles. We have known this since the Court of Auditors said something about it last week. NATO has also criticised it. We don't do enough for and with our armed forces. Additional investments in staff, training and supplies are needed. These are problems that simply need to be resolved, especially as the Islamic threat approaches us from all sides. Fortunately, the PVV also sees something positive, namely the compliments our special forces receive from NATO. The question is whether our high-quality and highly valued special forces are sufficiently extensive. I'll put that question to the Minister. In any case, NATO believes that we are not delivering enough to the alliance on this point. How does the Minister judge this criticism? Have we ever had to sell NATO a no on that point? Does the ever-increasing threat of terror inspire the Minister to start thinking about expanding our special forces? I would like to receive a response to this. Then the NATO standard. Should we, as some parties advocate, throw billions and focus blindly on the 2% NATO standard? As far as I'm concerned, we shouldn't. At least I'm not hot for that. What does the Minister think? As far as PVV is concerned, the focus should be on and the money should be used to solve problems that directly affect the defence of Dutch territory. That's gotta work out. That is the core task of our armed forces, on which I believe we all agree in this Chamber. That must be in order in the first place. Let me give you an example. Yesterday we visited the Royal Marechaussee with a number of MPs. There we found that there was a shortage of training facilities. The military police often have to be the last in line to use training facilities in defence areas. Is the Minister aware of this problem? If so, what is she going to do about it? I like to hear that. Perhaps there should be an investment to resolve this? In my opinion, the biggest problems facing our armed forces are the imposed and towering ambitions. The PVV advocates a reorientation of the ambitions we have for the armed forces. The Court of Auditors has also indicated that you can turn that button. As far as PVV is concerned, that is what is happening. Just throwing extra money at it is not the solution. Ambitions must be removed, first and foremost on the issue of commitment. For example, we see little or nothing in missions to maintain Islamic regimes. If Muslims want to fight each other, let them do what they want and let us stay out of it. I also mention the private guards on merchant ships. This has been blocked for many years by the Labour Party in particular, but it is of course much cheaper than sending out expensive large warships to the area near Somalia. The deployment of these ships costs 1 million euros a month each. It is also much cheaper than putting marines on those merchant ships to protect them from pirates. Let us simply choose to make private security possible. I come to the enforcement of the international legal order. We are the only country in the world to have that as a task for our armed forces in the Constitution. We're the only ones that are that crazy. Let us regard that letter as a dead letter. We'll do that with more laws. Let's do that here too. Even when I look at the material, I think it is possible to limit our ambitions. We're going to talk soon about the purchase of submarines. The Navy is keen to use submarines that it can use all over the world, but we can also opt for submarines that protect our interests in the North Sea and the Atlantic, including the supply and disposal routes that are important for our trade. In any case, that is a lot cheaper than submarines that must be able to sail in all kinds of other areas, particularly tropical ones. You should talk about that. You should be willing to limit yourself to that. I also mention the ambition of women on board submarines. It's a nice ambition, but it's gonna cost money. I do not know how much, but if it is a lot of money, my group will say: we should not do that, because we need to cut back and use the money in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u128	Do I fully understand Mr De Roon's plea for a submarine with women alone? Of course you can. That's also a variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u129	If Mrs Eijsink is able to raise so many women for sailing with a submarine, then I am not against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u130	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about defence expenditure. Many parties want to invest more after the cuts in recent decades. The right-wing parties in particular are now calling for the most urgent need for more money. "A game of peeing" writes the NRC. While those parties didn't make much cuts very long ago. I refer to the Rutte I cabinet, with CDA and VVD. One billion cuts in defense, over 10,000 jobs were lost as well as a lot of equipment. These two parties are now calling for the hardest money to come. I rest my case. The Court of Auditors spoke harshly about defence. There's been a decline in employability. Robbery is being carried out on the organization. Defence cannot even fully fulfil the constitutional task of defending our territory. Now you can do two things to solve this problem. You can invest more money or you can reduce the number of tasks. The Court of Auditors also points that out. I quote: "The realisation of the current ambitions that the Netherlands has with the armed forces is not possible with the current budget. With extra money alone, the problems cannot be solved. The Minister will have to make sharp choices." Those are wise words. I'd like a response. My argument is that the DOD carries out too many tasks in relation to the budget. Those who want to stick to the number of tasks will have to come up with billions, and those billions will not come up in the short term. There is therefore one option left: to reduce the number of tasks. I ask the Minister whether she shares that view with all honesty. I'm making some suggestions in that direction to help her. Reduce the number of missions. Stop participating in the wars in Iraq, Syria and Mali; they work counterproductively and you save hundreds of millions. Reduce the number of prestige projects; stop with the JSF and stop with new submarines. Saves billions. Get more coordination within the organization. The Court of Auditors is unbearable: the Ministry is working slowly and insufficiently coordinated to improve employability. That is a serious flaw. Fourth option: work on another military force, a military force that fits with the Netherlands. Clingendael has made good proposals for this. Not versatile, but a robust stabilisation force that focuses on peace missions. That also gives air to the organization. Fifth option: work with neighbouring countries, but be careful of your sovereignty when it comes to the deployment of troops. Does the Minister recognise that we can save a lot of money in this way? We can use that money to carry out our constitutional task properly, the defence of our territory. I'd like a response. Each party has every right to argue today for extra money for the defence industry, but do not say that it is necessary or inevitable. Acknowledging that this is a political choice, because there are alternatives. I just outlined them. Not more money, but less tasks. Not prestige projects, but a military force that suits the Netherlands. Not participating in controversial wars, but opting for viable missions. Not staring blind at a 2% standard from the Cold War, but opting for a realistic budget. And finally, in the run-up to tomorrow's hearing, not giving up your democracy by putting the budget in concrete for a multiannual period, but sticking to your political duty to make a sensible choice every year, not only when it comes to defence, but all posts, preferably in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u131	A question following Mr Van Dijk's comment on less tasks and less work. I have here in my hand the NATO defence planning, the letter that we are actually discussing here tonight. Can Mr Van Dijk tell me what we are no longer doing from the NATO review we are discussing tonight? After all, I do not hear the SP saying that we are leaving NATO. We are discussing the NATO review here tonight, and it says exactly what we can no longer do. It's about employability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u132	The SP does not simply accept NATO's propaganda and laws and regulations. It's not that fast. We want to reform NATO from the inside. We no longer want NATO to be a global police force. We want NATO to be confined to its most important task, the defence of its own territory. In addition, I have just given Mrs Eijsink, including the PvdA, five options to reduce the number of tasks so that ambitions can be restored to a realistic level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u133	I hear Mr Van Dijk talking about 'NATO propaganda'. I really don't understand those words. This is about the NATO objective and NATO deployment. In short, what are our forces supposed to comply with? That's what this play is about. I simply do not understand what Mr Van Dijk is telling us now. Is he saying that there should be fewer ambitions in relation to what we in NATO have to do? We have signed, we have responsibility. Does Mr Van Dijk now say that if we do less NATO, then we are no longer members of NATO? Membership of NATO does entail obligations. This is the report that's in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u134	That is what I meant by my interruption: think a little more autonomously, Mrs Eijsink, and do not immediately lie down with every order that NATO gives. Take, for example, NATO's 2% standard. Of course, the President of NATO says that the Netherlands is doing too little. Of course, he calls on all Member States to invest more money in defence. That does not mean, however, that we have to stick to it. At least not the SP. We say: think for yourself; think for yourself about a modern military force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u135	A final remark from Mrs Eijsink.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u136	I hear Mr Van Dijk saying some strange words. He felt that Mrs Eijsink should not lie down immediately before any order given by NATO. I think that's quite a remark, but I'm sure he meant it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u137	I meant don't obey right away. Think for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u138	Your question, Mrs Eijsink.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u139	My question is whether Mr Van Dijk recognizes that the Member States are NATO. We're NATO. So it's not NATO. NATO is made up of 28 countries. Does Mr Van Dijk recognize that? Does he still recognise the tasks for which the Netherlands has also signed up? If that is not the case, we have a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u140	Exactly. We're NATO. So we can think about NATO's tasks. I've never signed under that 2% standard. The cabinet may have done that. However, we are here in the Lower House, Mrs Eijsink. On the basis of dualism, I hope the House of Representatives has the freedom to reflect on NATO's tasks. That is what I was saying just now about following NATO. NATO says "jump" and we say "how high?'. No, I'm not one of them. We have to think for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u141	I doubt I'd ask this question, but I'll do it anyway. I hear Mr Van Dijk constantly talking about ambitions and certain things that we should not do anymore. In fact, Mr Van Dijk says: if there is a little less crisis in the world, we can do a little less. The problem is, however, that this is not the issue. Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that the world around us, on all sides, is becoming more unsafe? Does he dare to acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u142	I absolutely acknowledge that there is insecurity in the world. We also discussed this during the budget debate. I asked Mr Knops whether he recognised our own role in this increased insecurity, for example our own role in the participation of war in the Middle East, Iraq and Syria, for 15 years. What has the war on terror done, Mr Knops? Bar little! In fact, our role is counterproductive. Maybe it's good to think about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u143	I know that reasoning. All that is happening there is the fault of the West; it is our own fault and that is why we must be on the blisters. Something else, though. If the fire department in Mr Van Dijk's municipality no longer has the capacity to put out all the fires, is Mr Van Dijk's solution: too bad, then we simply need fewer fires? Should the level of ambition be adjusted, or perhaps it makes sense to think about increasing capacity? Is Mr Van Dijk prepared to finish that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u144	This is the CDA's mistake of thinking. Mr. Knops compares the army with the fire department. Bombs on Syria and Iraq and the purchase of a Joint Strike Fighter are very different things from the fire department. The fire department is a very important facility and the SP stands for it, as the SP stands for the police and the armed forces. A military force must be able to defend its own territory, but it must also stop wretched wars that are counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u145	A final comment by Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u146	I am afraid that I do not have much time to comment on this point either. Since 1989 and the fall of the Wall, the world has turned into something different than in time when Mr Van Dijk had very good contacts in Russia. The world is really different now. The threat and the extent of the threat have increased. We should respond adequately to that. We can of course say that we would have preferred not to. That is possible, but the situation is that. That is not going to change Mr Van Dijk and I am not going to change that; that is a fact and we will have to act on it. The SP has always said at first that we need to get out of NATO. Then she accepted that we're in NATO. Now there are already words like 'it is good that NATO is there'. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u147	That is a long final remark. I think Mr Van Dijk can already respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u148	You're doing very well as chairman, so I'm gonna stop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u149	It's Mr. Knops' gray-turned record. Ever since he's been in opposition, he's been the biggest champion of extra money for the Defense Department. However, when he was still part of the coalition, he made the hardest cuts ever in Defense. So in that respect, I would say: voters pay attention, because these are fine words in opposition times. I have acknowledged that there is insecurity. For that, we must maintain a military force. But we also need to stop unwise missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u150	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he needs five minutes to prepare her response. I'll give her ten anyway. We'll continue at 9:30. I'll suspend until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u151	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by saying a few words about the F-35, because a number of Members have spoken about it. Last night two JSF's landed in the Netherlands or F-35's. Whether Members were for or against during all the debates over the last 12 to 15 years, the reality is that the current fighter plane, the F-16, needs to be replaced. I think we've established that Chamberwide. That fighter plane is simply coming to the end of its economic, technical and operational life. Then it is good if a choice is made at some point, no matter how difficult that choice is. When yesterday those two boxes landed on Leeuwarden, that was an historic moment for many people, not least for the residents, because it all started, on the basis of the Eijsink motion, let me make that clear, when it comes to what the arrival of the F-35 means especially for the residents of Leeuwarden and Volkel. That's why the two boxes came to the Netherlands. In the next few days we will be conducting experience flights, so that the neighbors, but also the rest of the Netherlands, can get acquainted with the new fighter plane. That new fighter plane is not flowing for a while, but to anyone who said that the plane was not going to fly, I say that they made an endless ferry flight yesterday. And how. After the kites had been in it for ten hours, two days, they got out and spoke to the press. I too was still deeply impressed by how this all works and what a huge commitment the team, the technicians, the maintenance staff, the guards but also the kites themselves have shown. So far the F-35, because today we are talking about something quite different: NATO's assessment of the Dutch Defence effort, or NATO Defence Planning Capacity Review. As Members know, some of them have said, the Netherlands is one of the countries that is pushing for greater transparency in terms of output within NATO. We try to show that ourselves over and over again. We are also trying to encourage fellow countries, fellow Members-allies, to do so. That is quite difficult in an organisation such as NATO, because there is a lot of classified and very much traditionally classified there. We also continue to insist on an increasing understanding of what NATO expects from its allies, partly in the light of the changed security situation. Then the next question, also in response to Mr Van Dijk's contribution, is who or what 'NATO' really is. Like Europe, NATO is not exactly on Mars. NATO is formed by the 28 allies. So we too are NATO; we also determine what the standards are for preparation; we also determine why we agree on certain percentages. In short, this openness, whether it is about output or long-term expectations, is very important to me. Mrs Eijsink and others have already said that security is a central task of the government. Since the Golden Age, we have often discussed this with each other, the Netherlands is no longer a guarantee of our safety. We always do that with others. At present too, our security depends to a large extent on cooperation within NATO. I therefore welcome the fact that NATO's allies keep each other sharp, because it does not pass, I would also say to Mr Van Dijk, that one ally spends four points so much, while another ally spends zero point so much. I am not saying that the establishment and pursuit of a standard should be an end in itself, but rather a balance, a focus and an equal contribution seems to me to be the least you can expect in an alliance. There's no room for freeriders. A number of Members have explained this very well. In short, I do not mind at all if we are kept sharp and I do not mind sharing that with the Chamber. I would like to thank Mr Knops for his compliments on this transparency. When you share something like that, you always have a debate on your pants. However, I do so with love, because in the end the entire Chamber and I have to establish that there is still a long way to go to put things in order with the Defense Department. I'll get to that in a minute. In any case, I am not afraid of transparency, nor is the Chamber. We must continue to do so, because only then can we continue to go the way forward. What exactly does NATO say about the Netherlands? First of all, NATO recognises the commitment of the Dutch armed forces. She's positive about that, too. Let us not forget that. NATO is also positive about the recent steps taken by the Cabinet in allocating additional resources. Indeed, NATO is also critical. We're not running away from that. In an unsafe world, all allies, including the Dutch armed forces, are faced with considerably higher demands. Employability needs to be improved in the light of these high requirements. That is what NATO says very clearly. I'm going back to the triple I've been making. We are dealing with two decades of far-reaching austerity and targets. Mr Teeven was right to say that you cannot cut and reorganise for two decades and then expect me to correct or restore it in just one tenth of that time. At the same time, there is a greater appeal than ever to the Dutch armed forces. In parallel with this, we are faced with a changing security situation and higher demands are being made on the armed forces. All of this brings the current situation together. The far-reaching cuts, for example those from the 2011 policy letter, are now about to fall to the armed forces. So it is rather weedy that operational readiness is currently showing a way down. We have discussed this before. The earlier announced cuts are now taking hold and are palpable to their full extent. At the same time, resources will be added to the 2016 and 2015 budgets, but before the effects are felt, you will be many years further. That feels harsh, because we continue to invest, but really have to wait for its effects. Mr Teeven rightly pointed out that we have now added more than EUR 600 million to the Defence budget in less than three years. Is that what we're dealing with? The answer is absolutely no. We're not here yet. That's what I've exchanged with the Chamber before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u152	The Minister is now saying that we could have expected this. The effects are delirious and that we are now getting such a bad report figure, a yellow card with a red border, as Mrs Eijsink pointed out, we could have expected according to the Minister. However, when she took office, the Minister announced that she wanted a sustainable balance between resources and ambitions. In the last three years, employability rates have fallen significantly. NATO is critical. How does the Minister judge that, in the light of her own promise to the Chamber, I am not talking about others, because a government period does not take more than four years to balance these matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u153	What NATO and the Court of Auditors are saying, I feel it, you feel it, the armed forces feel it, everyone who works, every day, feels the employability of that military force and is actually committed to it. All this is not news, otherwise I would not have had to report on it for the last two years. I did that myself, for example in the 2016 budget. I will continue to do so because I think it is important for you to be able to follow the effects of the additional resources later. In the 2016 budget, I talked about material readiness, staff readiness, operational readiness and always said: do not expect you to see completely different tables before 2017, because solving this problem is really a long, multi-annual journey. I repeat that now. You're asking what I've done. I'm not gonna evaluate this with you for the last three and a half years. I'm sure we will at another time. I have often told you that in week 1 I was confronted with a 1, namely the Law on the standardization of wages, which immediately struck a gap of more than 50 million in my budget. Over and over again, as I progressed into the process, more bodies came on the table. I think I've got them all over the place now, both at the basic level and at the point of the Combat Support and the Combat Service Support and at the point of investment. I'm getting rid of them one at a time, but you're not gonna do that in the afternoon. You'll do the aborting of the armed forces on that afternoon. Before you recover everything and have units flying, sailing or driving again, before the effects of those additional resources are felt, we are unfortunately a lot of time away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u154	I fear that, although the windows at Square 4 are open, the air associated with the bodies mentioned by the Minister is not yet completely gone, because new problems are already emerging. That has everything to do with the imbalance. Think of the submarines on which there is a lot of discussion and which are put away in time, which is obviously a problem. Think of the statements of the Air Force Commander: far too few JSFs. The Minister himself made agreements one and a half to two years ago in Wales and is now entitled to report to Warsaw on what she has done. I do not deny that the Minister has made efforts. That's not the point. I can see that too little effort has been made to move up the road to the commitments made by the Minister himself. We're two years ahead, but we haven't gotten anywhere with the percentage of gross national product as a measuring point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u155	I hear Mr Knops very well. The windows are open, the air goes out and much more importantly, the bodies are buried one by one. I haven't exactly made a secret of where the bodies are: the basic readiness, CS/CSS and the investments. Mr Knops now mentions the submarines. I have not exactly made it a secret in the 2016 budget that the available funds do not relate to the number of replacement investments we have to make. There's still work to be done; I haven't gotten rid of everything yet. I have always asked you to look closely at the state-wide financial record. If you really think we can clear $5 billion right now, you're mistaken. I do not know how, at present, 5 billion can be cleared for the Dutch armed forces. That's why we said we can't do it all at once. We are just coming out of the financial crisis, and it is indeed, as Mr Teeven put it, extremely difficult in times of far-reaching austerity to repriorise and rearrange within the state budget and to intensify it for Defence. That is why it is a major achievement that more than EUR 600 million has been added so far. This cabinet has always talked about the multiannual perspective. So we're not here yet. Steps must be taken forward. A few weeks ago, I spoke in an interview, later in your Chamber, and also in a letter to your Chamber about a logical point of reference for Defense. At the time, I did not necessarily talk about the 2% NATO standard. I said at the time that the average of the European NATO countries, the 1.43% of GDP, seemed to me to be a logical target. It is all not good enough, not high enough for Mr Dijkgraaf, for example. I understand that, because the 2% have been agreed. Just to get close to that 1.43%, the average of the European NATO countries, I need EUR 2.8 billion. There isn't at the moment, so you have to put in a phaser. First things first. I have always said that the multiannual perspective does not end after one or two years, but covers a number of years. This cabinet has a first priority: to put the basics in order. Am I going to put it in full order within this cabinet period? No. That's what I've been telling you before. That means that it is my job to quote Mr Teeven once again; I did not agree, for the sake of order, to supply all the building blocks in such a way that the right decisions can be taken at that formation table and also the gaps in the basics, the combat support and the investments can be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mr Knops, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u157	In some disciplines, it's very good when you're driving a flat circle. Max Verstappen won a Formula 1 match with it. But if nothing changes, this Minister leaves Square 4 and has delivered plane 1.06% and 1.08% of GDP in four years. If the minister doesn't come up with more resources, that's the result. Is the Minister satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u158	If Mr Knops is going to blame me for having to do with economic growth, then I have just lost his point. The reality is, I'm overwhelmed. Additional resources will be added to the Defence budget. We're not here yet. The multiannual perspective covers much more years than just the years 2015 and 2016. But if, at a time when you are getting away from that financial crisis, where substantial cuts are still going on, where those effects of previous austerity are still palpable, you can rearrange within the rich budget in order to step up considerably, for example on the defence budget, then frankly that is worth a bunch of flowers instead of just highlighting my own defeat. In short, I wasn't going to. I'm gonna go ahead with the fight and get the defense budget in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u159	Then I wonder what the timetable would be, even for the 2.8 billion. I understand that we may be informed of this on a multiannual basis in the spring paper. My question was more about protecting our own territory. I have read that the Minister says that it is not fully satisfactory at the moment. What does she mean by that remark and how much concern should we have if we are not even able to adequately protect our airspace and our territory at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u160	I still had a lot of speaking time, but everything is mixed up. I'm gonna go through my lyrics. It says that we can no longer fully meet the employability objectives. I wrote that down myself. Last year I wrote: we can meet it, but with limitations. Then it actually says the same thing. It means that you cannot prepare all units at all different levels in the violence spectrum. This clearly does not mean that we would no longer be able to defend our territory. That suggestion was woken up by a newspaper at some point. First of all, if it came to that, we'd get everything out of the closet. Secondly, we are never alone, because you are a member of the NATO alliance for a reason. That is why I just said to Mr Van Dijk that it is so important that you fulfil your all-encompassing obligations and balance in what you deliver in that all-encompassing context. The frame that threatened to arise for a moment, as if the armed forces were no longer capable of anything, and the message that was given to many Dutch people "fearing for your safety" I find a very wrong signal. The armed forces commit themselves every day, nationally and internationally. This commitment is of great quality and has also been very successful. That doesn't mean we can rest on our laurels. We're not here yet. There needs to be a lot more investment. This must also enable the armed forces to expand and cope with the growing occupation, both nationally and internationally, of the same military force. I really want to stress once again that the frame, as if one should now fear for its safety in the Netherlands, is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u161	It's a good thing the Minister says that, on the one hand. On the other hand, she adds that at the moment when there is a real threat, we can always fall back on our allies. That may be so, but if our allies in Europe and our neighbors are dealing at the same time with the same kind of threat, I have actually tried to make that clear in my input, where sovereignty is concerned, and depending on other allies, we do have a problem. My question to the Minister remains what we need at least in order to protect our own territory independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u162	I understand what Mr Voordewind is saying, but there is no sort of ticking list. We are not solely responsible for protecting our territory. That's what we do in an alliance. I told you at the beginning that since the Golden Age we haven't been in our uppie for the protection of the Netherlands, but always do so in cooperation with others. There is no such thing as a ticking list of what is needed to protect our own territory. For that, the Netherlands is far too much part of the world around us. We would hang the defense of the Netherlands far too much on the defense of a piece of land, while 2016 is much more about cross-border networks. I mean digital, but also commodity trade, and so on, and so on. These interests can therefore also have to be defended elsewhere, because their impact on the Netherlands can be very large. There is therefore no such list, but allergic solidarity requires a lot of us. Then there is the ticking list: what is expected of us? It is not for nothing that I used three years ago on a military force with a basic toolbox and also a number of niche capacities, specialist capabilities, with which the Netherlands can make a difference within NATO, while, for example, we are not as big in our capacity for continuation at other times. I am not going to discuss, for example, the submarines, but let us be clear that this is an example of an important niche capacity that is highly appreciated within NATO. As a result, you can also show your allergic solidarity in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u163	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u164	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I understand there are no ticking lists. However, we do have to meet certain requirements that we have promised to NATO, and that also applies vice versa. However, I would like to return to the wording used by the Minister himself: we cannot fully deliver on these requirements at the moment. It was last year, and it is this year. We have to take these kinds of signals seriously, and I am glad that the Minister is very open about it. I would ask the Minister to at least make it clear to us, for the Spring Paper, where the points of improvement are. I know in any case that we need two aircraft in the air permanently to defend our airspace. So there are lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u165	Clear. Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u166	I think I wrote a very clear letter not so long ago about where we identified the points of improvement. They do not differ from the improvements I shared with the Chamber last year. I just repeated them. I summarize them briefly to the basic readiness, the combat support and the combat service support that are fire support, genius, intelligence capacity and so on, as well as the investments. Those are the blocks on which there is still a catch-up to be made. The Chamber does not hear me say that, because we had already seen it coming, we should take NATO criticism a little less to heart or that the remarks made by the General Court are therefore less relevant. They're very relevant. Security is a core task. In the field of safety, failure is not an option, to put it in good English. We're all going to have to stay sharp on that, as a cabinet and chamber, so we can close the gaps. Of course, as Mr Van Dijk did, a plea can also be made for a far-reaching reduction and for the re-elimination, re-repulsion, and the removal of units. That seems extremely unwise to me. We were just talking about the fire department. He thought it was apples and pears, but the world burns pretty good. East, South and cyber are all places where fires need to be put out and where the Dutch armed forces will have to be deployed. The Dutch armed forces will then have to have sufficient resources, also in the context of their allies' obligations. A plea that, in these times, after the removal of 12,500 positions in the Defense Department in recent years and the far-reaching reduction of the budget, re-deploying units and abolishing weapons systems is a plea that I am not going to take on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u167	I now give the floor to Mr Bontes, because the Minister is actually answering Mr Van Dijk's question in response to a question by Mr Voordewind. So let's get back to the debate. I give the floor to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u168	Exactly, because the core of the interruption was initially about how much money will be added in the short and long term. Let us be honest, it would of course be ridiculous for the Minister to accept Mr Van Dijk's proposals. If I really voted left, I would vote for the SP, not the Labour Party, let that be clear. However, I am glad that this is not happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u169	What is your question, Mr Bontes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u170	Military people who are listening to this debate or listening to this debate have nothing to do with these big words from the Minister. She's talking about bodies in the closet, about building blocks, and she needs a lot of text. Those soldiers can't do anything with that. They want to know very specific things. They ask: Minister, what will happen in the short term, how much money will be added next year and what will happen in the long term? For example, what does the Minister think of such a growth path to achieve the NATO 2% standard? Is she gonna embrace that and try to live up to that standard? I ask the Minister what the military can expect in concrete terms. They are standing or sitting empty-handed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u171	No one has anything to apologize for afterwards or for beautiful stories that cannot be fulfilled. There's a lot of real money you need. They have so far translated into more than EUR 600 million extra for the Defence budget. In parallel, there is a number of processes to ensure that the internal organisation is also organised. We have spoken before in an AO about the reports of Policy Research on life cycle costing. There are all kinds of necessary processes that have to run in parallel with the intensifications, to ensure that Defence comes out of trouble. That'll help the military. The multiannual perspective outlined by the Cabinet covers more years than 2015 and 2016. I just said that three times. How much more will be added this year, Mr Bontes, and thus also the military and civilian employees of the Defense Department, will become clear on Princess Day, the third Tuesday in September. Then the budget for 2017 will be presented. The Spring Note can be used to address, for example, temporary problems, but is not intended to announce structural funds. We'll do it on Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u172	Our military will be truly disappointed by this answer. They want concrete action. They want to see concrete money. I've told you a few times that there's a lack of everything in the defense. There's a shortage of everything. There is a shortage of spare parts, but also reservists are not trained enough; you name it. Military have no practice ammunition and must say "pang, pang." I didn't believe it at first when a soldier told me to even say "peanut, peanut." I don't know if it's true, but that's what a soldier told me. I didn't want to believe it. I think it's so outrageous. However, the Minister cannot make concrete and concrete what is now going to happen for those soldiers. It is really two to twelve; something must be done now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u173	I understand Mr Bontes' emotion, but let's go back to what I just said. I have repeatedly said that the cuts and targets of 2011 are only now fully felt in the operational units, no matter how painful that may be. So now the pain is really felt. It is hard to add resources to the budget at the same time, but the effects will not be felt again for a number of years. Of course, that's hard to explain. That's harsh and that's rubbing. On the one hand, you have to deal with these cuts and, on the other hand, with additional resources. That's the situation now. I say again that the multiannual perspective covers more years than 2015 and 2016. We're just not there yet. The effects will be felt, but unfortunately it will take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u174	Mr Bontes makes a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u175	Our military will be truly disappointed by this response from the Minister. They want to know exactly what they're up to and what they're getting. They ask: what better way to organise? That's not what they're getting with the Minister's story right now. It's a political story about Prince's Day. That's no use to the military.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u176	These are the rules that the Cabinet has agreed with the Chamber. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u177	I'd like to compliment the Minister for her honesty. It recognizes, like the Court of Auditors and many others, that there is a great deal of tension between ambitions and the budget. That's a pinch. At the same time, she says that it does not make much sense to say today that there will be EUR 2 or EUR 3 billion, because A. that money is not there and B. that if it is there today, then you can't put that away in one day with Defence; that's unrealistic. I'll share that with the Minister. Does she therefore share my view that it is inevitable, as the Court of Auditors says, to make sharp choices in the short term at least, to ensure that the armed forces are no longer overloaded? Does she agree that we will have to consider whether we should adjust our ambitions downwards, whether we should do fewer missions or whether we should buy less expensive weapons? The minister said she'd rather not. Does she understand that she has to make one of those sharp choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u178	I know Mr Van Dijk a little longer than today, but he is listening very selectively today. I didn't say it makes no sense to add 2 or 3 billion. With such a large amount, it is important that it goes in a certain order and with a certain phasering. I also said that there is no 2 or 3 billion at the moment. Take a good look at the state-wide financial record: there is no money. That is why we have said that, as far as possible, we are taking this into account in a multiannual perspective. I quote Mr Teven again. He said: if, in times of getting away from the financial crisis and far-reaching austerity, which must be carried out everywhere, you can still rearrange and re-prioritize within the rich budget and free up money for the budget, that is a major achievement. In doing so, we have already managed to add more than EUR 600 million to the Defence budget. We're not here yet. If Mr Van Dijk were to ask the Finance Minister if he had 2 or 3 billion available, he would say: sorry, take a good look at the budget. I have also said before that the Netherlands, if you look at its place within NATO's top 28, is simply not doing well. We are somewhere at the bottom of the right row, in the seventeenth place, shared with so many other countries. I also really think that the Netherlands, as a prosperous country with so many interests and the world around it, should really move a step faster. I never made a secret out of that. As a logical point of reference, I mentioned the average of the European NATO countries: 1.43% of GDP. In fact, we are going to have a figure of 2 to 3 billion, 2.8 billion, to be precise. It is an illusion to add to that now, but business should be done at the formation table after the elections, depending on the parties that sit there. I have the clean task of providing the right building blocks so that the parties at the formation table can make decisions on this. Mr Van Dijk once again asks for far-reaching choices to be made. We have spoken before about the importance of stability and stability for the Defence Organisation. I think that is what Mrs Eijsink is referring to when it comes to multiannual plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u179	But Minister, I heard Mr Van Dijk asking questions about ambitions and you are now going to answer Mrs Eijsink's question. I shall return to Mr Van Dijk's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u180	I am still with Mr Van Dijk, but I am referring to Mrs Eijsink because she made a comment on the multiannual plans. Mr Van Dijk asks to make choices in the light of the ambitions. He says: strike the right balance between ambition and resources. In short, he says shut down units and disarm weapon systems. I'm not gonna do that right now. The world burns. I just indicated: the east flank, the south flank, cyber; the diversity of threats is huge. The unpredictability of all this is great. We must be prepared at all levels. We cannot now, after the removal of 12,500 functions, repel so many weapons systems and units in recent years, go back and decide to go to an even smaller military force. I'm definitely not gonna take care of that. The only road I would like to take with you is the way forward. That means a reinforcement of the current armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u181	Final comment by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u182	Those building blocks of the minister will read the SP with interest at the formation table. But we're not there yet. That's a long-term plan. It's about today. The point is that the Court of Auditors is saying today: apart from extra money, there are sharp choices to be made, because the matter is now overburdened. For example, the Minister could adjust the level of ambition, says the Court of Auditors. I have mentioned other possibilities, such as fewer missions. Does the Minister recognize that talking about more money is one thing, but that there are sharp choices to be made today, if you want to keep Defence sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u183	Again, I am not going to walk the path of re-repulsion of weapon systems and the lifting of units. When it comes to missions, Mr Van Dijk points out the permanence of the armed forces and the conduct of various missions. That's a fair point. We have to be honest in what we can and what we can't do, and not dive under the already under pressure set-up standards. Because then we will continue to get report figures, as we have received them from the General Court of Auditors. This can-do mentality, which we have often spoken of, knows its limits, which we have indeed reached on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u184	Mrs. Belhaj was just standing here, sitting down and standing again. I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u185	When I speak to the military during work visits, they understand very well all these procedural remarks of the Minister about what is in those closets and what comes out step by step. What I miss, and I think the Defence Organisation is also wide, is why this cabinet is not setting a very clear target within a limited time. Because that is really the only thing that is missing from this minister. I hear her saying the money isn't there. But this cabinet can make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u186	That is why I believe it is my responsibility to deliver the building blocks so that very clear decisions can be taken at the next information table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u187	I think that's too easy. We are now in May 2016, this cabinet still rules, when it is over, until March 2017, followed by a missionary period. Why doesn't this cabinet say: we have the guts to think we should be here in four, eight or ten years? That's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u188	Because no cabinet rules its own grave. Tomorrow there will be a round table on the multiannual plans. Mrs Eijsink asked if I am prepared to have that discussion in the cabinet. Sure. That's why you have three departments at your table tomorrow: State Department, Finance and Defense. This debate is therefore taking place. But let us be very clear: you are walking along long enough to know that in the meantime, especially in the last year, no billions can be cleared. That is precisely a task for the reformer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u189	Mr Dijkgraaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u190	I'm sorry about that. I understand that in general and I also understand that it is politically difficult. Maybe there's a difference within the coalition, so that doesn't happen. But if you look at what long history Defense has with cuts, reorganisations and the question of military where they are in four or eight years' time, it would help them as much as this minister and this cabinet say: in eight years' time, the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u191	I am grateful to all the parties in this Chamber who have supported this, for announcing a trend break: an end to austerity. The only way forward was to add additional resources. We have, at the time we have said that, made that happen. This cabinet has added resources to the budget each time. If that stops abruptly, it undermines the commitment we have given to the military. For me, therefore, it is important for the multiannual perspective to be extended and extended. I'll bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u192	I wanted to wait until it got more concrete, but it doesn't. I hear the minister say she's got a lot of bodies and garbage bags out there. She gets compliments from everyone for doing that. I find that special, because it seems natural to me that a ministry should by definition point out to a new govern ment representative all the problems and all the waste that is still clogged. It sounds a bit management-like what the minister says: the manager identifies the problems and then it's up to the next manager to do something with them. However, this often does not happen. The minister says she's responsible, she says where the problems are, she thinks it's important that there's a lot of money and she says she did do some things. But the Court of Auditors' report makes it absolutely clear that there is actually under-exhaustment and that it is no longer just about money. In the last three and a half years, the Minister could have put things in order on a number of business issues. We don't need 10 years for that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u193	Nor do you hear me say that we need ten years to put the internal processes in order. With all due respect, those are the words of Mrs Belhaj. At my arrival I did one thing right: introducing the life cycle costing. That sounds very simple, but that wasn't decided yesterday and introduced today. It's really a long-term process. All your administrative systems need to be modified. I have often reported on this in the budget and in separate reports. I'll keep doing that. That is why we are talking about the planned in-chain. That is why we are talking about how we can improve the realisation of the investment ratio. That is why the IT issue has been addressed. So a quantity of processes runs parallel. The Court of Auditors also says, for example, that we are too committed to staffing capacity, but that we do need sufficient staffing capacity for our logistics chain. I found that to be a very good observation, but I do need additional resources to put this staffing capacity in order. In a number of cases it is "en-en." It is not: first, put your organization in order. A number of routes require additional resources to fight for each other. A lot has happened in the last three years. Those processes also need to be brought forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u194	If you need additional staff, a recruitment and selection procedure does not take two years. I think we can do it faster. The Court of Auditors' report states that there is under-exhaustment, that Defence is spending too little money or not getting rid of it. If you have money and know it's necessary to speed up processes, don't you spend it on it? Why has the Minister not followed a number of recommendations made by the Court of Auditors before and has she not sat on top of them to ensure that the foundation of defence on which it must be able to build is right? Why don't I keep hearing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u195	I would ask Mrs Belhaj to clarify this matter. What underexhaustment are we talking about here? Are we talking about the realisation of the investment ratio? Or are we talking about something else? If Mrs Belhaj seriously believes that I have lost or otherwise could have used the funds that are not being realized there, then that is a false assumption. What I'm right about when I'm in office is an unlimited end-of-year margin. This means that if I do not realize certain investment funds in a given year, that can happen for a number of reasons; I have often discussed them with the Chamber, I have not lost those funds, because those investments are still on the table. Those funds will then go with you to the next year. So that is different from the fact that I have to use these funds in a different way. I really do not understand what point Mrs Belhaj is trying to make here. I would therefore ask her to state this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u196	I give you the opportunity to respond very briefly, Mrs Belhaj. You are being challenged to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u197	The Minister has a good point to make in this respect, but I stand by my point of view as well. Take the IT issues. The minister says she solved it, but she didn't solve it at all. She has found that there were enormous problems and then we have been given a feedback which shows that it might take longer. I was not very impressed by what we have heard so far. The Minister is right to say that it is nice that these investments can be taken on board, but my question was: isn't it smarter to use those investments elsewhere, so that we don't have to wait with all kinds of processes until these investments are completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u198	I also find the way in which I am getting a little charming in this debate. However, I did not say that the IT problem was solved. That is why the whole plan of action I have sent to the Chamber is multiannual. Of course, we addressed the problem of continuity, which was suddenly under pressure, because there must be no question of continuity being undermined in the near future. But that's another story. I come back to the investment ratio and the realisation of the investment funds. Let's talk about the fighter plane. Suppose I have reserved funds for the fighter plane, which, for example, delayed the process of assembling the fighter plane, that I commit later and that I make payments later. Then I'm not gonna spend that money on anything else! I must ensure that the funds I have reserved are spent on what they were intended for. Otherwise, I am still working on an investment plan that needs to be revised 86 times every year. Reservations are made for certain items. If they are not realized, I will take the reservations with me until they can be made. This is important for the continuity and sustainability of Defence's replacement investment. Only in this way will we achieve a financially sustainable organisation. That's what went wrong in the past. Until recently, there was a shift between exploitation and investment. If we were vultures from the financial frameworks for exploitation, from that curve, then some of the investments were picked out of the investments. So it is rather weedy that I now have a huge shortage of investment. If we didn't realize certain investment funds, we would quickly spend some money on things that weren't necessary at the time. Kind of weeded that I'm running short right now. The fact that we had to take measures in 2015 to stay within the financial frameworks with the operating funds had everything to do with new rules of the game. They were used to adding a little extra value from these investments. You can see it now happening again in the year 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u200	No, this is an important point, Mr President. The Chamber will be further informed about this, but we cannot continue to talk about financial sustainability in this house if we have not clearly agreed on these rules and if we do not have them clearly on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u201	I would like to come back to the point made by the Minister in reply to the questions put by Mr Bontes and Mr Dijkgraaf about the Spring note as a moment to show us something. The Minister said: no, it is not intended for structural changes; I do so in the budget. Last year, after the attacks in Paris, the cabinet was happy with the support of the Chamber to reverse a number of earlier measures or to withdraw additional funds. Does the Minister believe that the situation is no longer so serious and that it is no longer necessary to do so? This could also happen this year in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u202	I'd like to say, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u203	I've heard that before. I'll be sure to. I have one more question to ask in the light of this waiting time. The Minister has previously promised to come to the spring note with a response to my motion on price compensation and currency effects. I have said something about this in my contribution to purchasing power. These are the external factors that the Minister cannot do anything about, but which she has to deal with and which she will have to respond to. Does the Minister still intend to come to the Spring Paper with a response to that motion? Can I wait for that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u204	Mr Knops referred to the spring note. I do not know whether I will come up with a response to that motion at the same time, but I will at least come up with that in the spring. Fortunately, Mr Knops knows very well that I myself raised these issues, the exchange rate problem and the price adjustment problem. That is very important to me, because if we do not address this problem, we will continue to follow the facts. Then it is also rather weedy to use that word for just a moment, so that in one, two years' time, those who have the political influence over the defence sector, regardless of who that is, will have to come forward again with structural deficits. If you don't get enough price adjustment, the deficit will come back on its own. If you have too much trouble in the negative sense, and sometimes in the positive sense, it unfortunately doesn't stop each other; if it were true of the exchange rate problem, you also have structural problems to report and there can be no question of a financially sustainable organisation. I feel very much supported by Mr Knops. I put that in front of the study group on budgetary space. It was no easy task to do that in the interim, because there is often a reference to a change in the cabinet; it must then be mentioned. We've scheduled it in the meantime. I hope to inform the Chamber about this shortly. This doesn't mean that there's a pan-ready solution right away. If we can take a first step towards more stability in the defence budget, it's worth a lot to me. I am sure this is the same for Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u205	I just feel those flowers coming. Just one more point. Mr Dijkgraaf asked about the Spring note. The Minister replied that she does so at Prince's Day, but she just said that I have to wait until the Spring's note arrives. I am a little confused whether I really have to wait until something comes up with additional resources for the defence of the Spring Paper other than the implementation of the motion. Or wasn't that the intention of what the minister just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u206	I can't anticipate the spring note. Mr Knops really needs to study it. The same applies to the budget for the year 2017. I indicated that the spring note was not intended to announce the structural funds for the coming years. For that we just have Prince's Day, the third Tuesday in September. Somehow they seem to have been lumped together in the debates I have had with the Chamber in recent months. With regard to any incidental additional resources, I refer to the Spring note. I can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u207	Please continue your speech. In the meantime, I think you have answered a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u208	I'll hurry. Really, I promise. I think I've said a lot. Mr. Chairman. A number of spokesmen, including Mr Knops and Mr Teeven, asked about the message in Warsaw. Mr Dijkgraaf also asked for this. I am not going to name all the names, because all the spokesmen have spoken of them. In Wales, we made the political agreement to pursue the NATO 2% standard within ten years. Mr Van Dijk referred to the fact that these agreements would come from the time of the Cold War, but that is by no means true. Quite frankly, these have only been confirmed for the first time at the level of the Heads of State or Government in Wales. Previously, it was a kind of work agreement on the workplace and between the Defence Ministers. That too is not until 2002, 2003, I believe. In any case, the Netherlands, like the other allies, will have to explain in Warsaw what we have done since 2013, 2014. We will again talk about the trend break and will talk about the fact that we are not ready to take further steps in the context of the multiannual perspective and that we have the follow-up steps on the retina when it comes to the basics, the combat support, the combat service support and the replacement investments. In Warsaw, we will also discuss our contribution to the NRF, to the VJTF and to the other NATO activities, such as in the Aegean Sea. I am sure that we will speak separately about the exact commitment of the Netherlands when it comes to the Warsaw Summit. I refer to that. Mr Voordewind specifically said that cooperation should not be at the expense of sovereignty. I understand what he means, of course. We have often discussed this with each other, especially in the run-up to the Presidency of the European Union. The Chamber had its role in this with its colleagues in the parliaments in the other Member States. This was certainly also about drawing up, for example, the Global Strategy. Many in the Chamber and I agree with each other when we say that the forces must be joined together, that we can do much more together and that it is important that the European countries join forces, precisely in order to restore the balance within NATO a little bit towards the Americans. This does not mean that we would no longer be able to carry out our tasks nationally in our uppie. We sometimes forget it, but a third of the capacity of the Dutch armed forces is deployed day in, day out or reserved for national tasks and national deployment. That is what we must continue to prioritize. The use of units which are or are not integrated with units of other countries or which are used in a particular grouping is always controlled by the Netherlands. So if Mr Voordewind means'sovereignty', we agree wholeheartedly. At the same time, I say that our interests are cross-border. As far as I am concerned, the definition of "sovereignty" in 2016 is about how best to protect and defend the interests of the Dutch people. Since these interests are, by definition, cross-border, you must also want to defend them cross-border. That means almost by definition: in cooperation with others. So that all listens closely. As a result of an interruption, I have just referred to the multiannual plan, even though it was not allowed to do so. Tomorrow, the Chamber will have a round table on that. In doing so, the Chamber itself has the initiative. Of course, this is also discussed in the cabinet. Mr De Roon asked about the special forces. As special forces, the Netherlands does indeed have the commands and the Marine Corps, which are highly recognized for that purpose. NATO's criticism of the Dutch special forces is not so much focused on the quality of the special forces as on the lack of sufficient supporting activities. Then we come back to the point of combat support and combat service support. That is a point that NATO is right to make, and of course I have said it repeatedly myself. This concerns, for example, air transport. Those are all enablings that are crucial for SOF to come to their senses. This also means that this is part of the multiannual perspective of this cabinet. In addition, we look at how we can improve the management of both commands and marines and thus also determine a certain profit. I believe that the House will not be informed of this until after the summer. So we are working hard on this and we are very aware, nationally and internationally, of the importance of the deployment of our SOF.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u209	Let me be clear: the Minister does not say that more special forces are needed. That's not necessary. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u210	I have already said that, if anything is suitable for further enlargement in the future, that might be the special forces. But my first priority now is to ensure that the special forces we have can do their job and therefore have sufficient staff. Simply expanding the SOF without providing the SOF with the right enablings, for example air transport, makes little difference. After all, we are going to let go of the balance that we have just discussed. The balance between combat units and support units shall be monitored over and over again. In the past, we've cut too much on support units. We're paying a certain price for that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u211	Is it about enablers who can promote the deployment of these special forces in defence of the NATO territory? Or is it about enabling people who should make it possible for the special forces to operate outside NATO territory, for example in Mali or Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u212	Whether the special forces are deployed in their own country or abroad, in NATO territory or beyond within the framework of the international legal order, they need certain enablers. It seems perfectly logical to me that air transport should take place at certain times, not so much in our own country, with smaller distances, but in the significant NATO territory. We also need air transport there. And yes, also in the context of the international legal order, certain enablers can be of great importance, especially with regard to intelligence, air transport and so on. Following a working visit, Mr De Roon also spoke about the shortage of training facilities for the Royal Marechaussee. I had to check, because this was a new phenomenon for me. But that is also good, because that is exactly what the work visits are for. Following the intensifications just mentioned by Mr Knops, we have had to recruit and train a number of platons. That also affects the training capabilities. At the end of 2016 this additional pressure on the training capacities should be over, but I will check this carefully to make sure that this is a temporary and not a structural problem and that this will address Mr De Roon's concerns adequately. Room's gonna hear about that. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u213	According to my list, too, but Mr Van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u214	I have a question for you to put things back in proportion. How much do NATO countries spend on defence every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u215	I don't have that total right now. What does Mr Van Dijk want to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u216	It's about $900 to $1,000 million. How much does Russia spend on defence every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u217	If Mr Van Dijk is serious about saying that we are spending a lot more than Russia, that is a well-known phenomenon. I honestly do not understand the point to be made here, because our view of the task is more than just our defence of Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u218	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u219	That was not an answer to my question. Russia spends about $90 billion a year on defence. So that's ten times less than NATO. I notice that my political rivals often mention Russia as a reason to increase defence spending. I just wanted to mention these figures to put things in context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u220	That was exactly what I said, but the NATO alliance's mission is more than just defence against Russia. In fact, until a while ago, Russia was an important partner. We have always said that dialogue with Russia must continue. Business as usual can't be the case right now. Mr Van Dijk will agree with me, but only Mr Putin cannot be the reason to increase defence expenditure. The world burns, not only on the east flank, but also on the south flank and also virtually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u221	This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. I note that Members need a second term, because the first speaker is standing up. I call Mr Knops of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u222	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. The Minister is open; I have complimented her for that earlier. At the same time, many questions are not answered, because the Minister does not want or can not say anything about the Spring Note, wants or can not say anything about the implementation of the Knops motion on price compensation and exchange rates and does not want or can not say anything about the stakes in Warsaw. Meanwhile there is a yellow card with a red border; I quote Mrs Eijsink. On April 1st, the Algemeen Dagblad reported that the only minister who does call for extra money but Dijsselbloem is Jeanine Hennis. I'm gonna assume that was a April 1 joke. That is why I have a motion to support the Minister in her struggle, not to go down but to win the battle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in its Defence Planning Capacity Review, NATO strongly criticises the state of the Dutch military and calls for higher defence spending;]] [[Considering that the Netherlands committed itself at the 2014 NATO summit in Wales to increase defence spending towards the NATO standard in ten years' time;]] [[Considering that defence expenditure as a percentage of GDP has not increased since then, but has decreased even further;]] [[believes that in times of increasing insecurity and instability, the Netherlands should act as a reliable ally taking responsibility for international security;]] [[calls on the government, at the Warsaw Summit, to make a substantial, meaningful gesture towards NATO, in line with the commitments made in Wales,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops, Mr Voordewind and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28676-244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u223	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I note, however, that neither the coalition parties in the Chamber nor the minister have yet clarified the stakes in Warsaw, the timetable, the ambition and the amounts. For that we may have to wait for the Spring paper, or else the budget. I regret that, also in view of the Court of Auditors' serious report. I would like to put another proposal to the Chamber on the protection of at least the constitutional area of the Netherlands and that of the alliance. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister has indicated that the armed forces cannot adequately exercise their constitutional task of defending the Dutch and Allied territories;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to restore the spring paper so that the armed forces can return to their constitutional functions as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Knops and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28676-245]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u224	Mr. Chairman. If the Minister were in my heels, she would probably have shown the same anger as I tried to bring forward on behalf of D66 in the first term. I am incredibly surprised that, despite the sharpness of a number of colleagues, I have to repeat the same thing as in the first period of questioning what we are actually doing to solve the problems, namely that talking about improvements, about more money and about the fact that you have already agreed a note with each other once in which you have confirmed that there are quite a lot of problems in the Defense Department, in the end nothing will solve. If the Court of Auditors' report finds the same thing three and a half years on, I think it is only fair to ask the Minister not to prepare for others after four years. I think that is a special statement: 'I am preparing it for the others and for the new negotiations'. I would prefer the Minister to have a plan and get on with it as quickly as possible, rather than just putting it in place. I don't think it's five to twelve by now, but a quarter past twelve. Defence is an essential issue, which is extremely important for many Dutch people. When someone on the train asks me what we did tonight and if we have solved anything else, I fear I have to say that this is not really the case. We're gonna talk about it, and we're gonna sign declarations of intent for more money. The VVD might also want more money, but the PvdA does not express itself explicitly on that point. The Minister would like to do the same, but wait for Mr Dijsselbloem. Unfortunately, my conclusion is that I found it a little disappointing tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u225	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her point of view, which she set out clearly this evening. The VVD Group has not put any questions to the cabinet in this debate. It is one of the few times that it does not do so, so it would be a little strange to thank the Minister for her answers. In any case, her point of view is clear and clear. That is a good thing. In our view, the Minister has a difficult story when she goes to Warsaw. She has no difficult story regarding the commitment, quality and concrete contribution of the Dutch armed forces. Our military are just doing a great job; let's be clear about that. However, it has a difficult story following the discussions that took place in 2014. The growth path doesn't look good. Mr Knops also referred to this. This has to do, among other things, with the increase in gross domestic product. The Minister is right about that. If that increases, but defence expenditure is not structurally increased, that percentage is going down. With that argument you can come a long way in Warsaw, but on the basis of these agreements you will have to show some progress in the growth path. If you want to grow to 2% in ten years, you have to add about 700 million a year. If you want to reach 1.43%, you will have to add half of 700 million annually over a period of ten years. This is just a rough calculation. If you want to do it in two reigns, you'll get to 1 billion a year. These are challenges for the future, regardless of what the Minister can achieve for next year's budget. These percentages and amounts are necessary if you want to maintain the level of ambition that has been laid down in the interests of the Netherlands. The calculation in Mr Bontes' motion is not correct. He was unable to convince the Chamber, because he was the only one who voted in favour of that motion; the rest of the Chamber was against it. The 5 billion from his motion is falling out of the sky. You need a much higher amount over a much longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u226	There is an interruption by Mr Knops. So you have a little more speaking time, because you had already taken a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u227	What do you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u228	You had already taken a little more time, but now you have more time from Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u229	Mr Knops has a serious question. That's a whole different thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u230	Sure. Mr Teeven had no questions to the Minister and thanked the Minister for the view. He did say in his second-term contribution that it is important to send out a signal and that we are using that growth path. Is Mr Teven therefore inclined to submit the motion I have just tabled with a positive opinion to his group? After all, that motion is entirely in line with what he has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u231	We're gonna weigh that motion well and discuss it. Mr De Roon always says it so beautifully: I have taken note of it and am sympathetic to it, but I want to discuss it in my group and you will hear it next week. That's about his standard point of view. I really need to share this with the fraction of the VVD. There's 41 people in there. They all have their own views on Defense. Mr Vuijk and I have an even stronger view on this, so we really need to discuss this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u232	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has not only a difficult story to tell in Warsaw at the NATO summit, but also against her soldiers who are left empty-handed again this evening. I'm filing a motion. I am sure that Mr Teeven will like this motion and sign it with him. There's no other way, considering his lyrics tonight. Here comes the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NATO is critical of the Dutch defence policy and the insufficient defence budget;]] [[Whereas it was agreed at the NATO summit in Wales that underperforming Member States should increase their defence budget to the NATO standard of 2% of GDP within 10 years;]] [[calls on the government to send the Chamber a growth path as soon as possible which supports this increase in the Defence budget to 2% of GDP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28676-246]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u233	Since I was quoted, but not only for that reason, I still have a question about the explanation of the motion. In order to be able to advise properly, I must also understand the motion; hence this question. I think that Mr Bontes means that the growth path of the Dutch Defence budget must move towards 2% in ten years' time. I do not think it has been agreed in Wales that we will grow to 2% in ten years. It has been specifically agreed that there should be a growth path that is going in the direction of 2%. If that is what Mr Bontes means by his motion, I am going to take a serious look at it, just like he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u234	Yes, but the motion really means 2% of GDP and not about or in the direction of 2%. Those are the vague terms the VVD likes to use. VNL is very concrete. It's about 2% of GDP. Unfortunately, Mr Teeven, as a number fetishist, will advise his group negatively. We're used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u235	Mr. Chairman. I think one night you should count your blessings. I would do the same if I were the minister, because I see that the Chambers Committee, the Assembly, supports her in her efforts to get more money. This is said in many keys, but I think that Defence and also the Minister can rely on a broad majority in the Chamber to achieve that. Only the number and the precise plans will we have to talk about in the future. What I said earlier is the conclusion I'd like to draw tonight. I say this particularly to Mrs Belhaj who will go home a little dissatisfied, so I get the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u236	Mr. Chairman. I feel that we are dealing here with a large part of the legislative consultation on 16 June, but perhaps I am wrong about that. I thank the Minister for answering the many questions. The fact that the Minister shares the analysis is not surprising. I'd like to ask her a few more questions. By letter of 24 March, we received the concept of NATO's review. The Minister says that there will probably not be so much news, but because it will be discussed by NATO Defence Ministers on 14 and 15 June, I think it would be good if the Chamber would still receive the real report, because who knows there are still differences. I know the perseverance and perseverance of the Minister. I would ask her to look again at whether other Member States would like to share this, because I assume that the Minister will return this debate to her colleagues on 14 and 15 June. The debate on Warsaw will take place in the Chamber on 6 July. I very much look forward to the government's commitment to the yellow card with the red border for Warsaw. I think that this should be done, but I also understand that the Minister says that there is still some discussion about it. I would like to make a comment on the price compensation. I think it is shared, because we have often introduced this subject with Mr Knops. The Minister has taken a small advance on it; I look forward very much to it. I'm very curious about what that's going to look like, because it would take a big bite out of the defense budget. My final comment concerns the multiannual perspective and the multiannual plans. The Minister literally said that this is, of course, discussed in the cabinet. I would like to ask her in what way and within what timeframe that happens. I would like to thank all the officials of the three ministries who are at the table tomorrow. That already indicates that the government is also working on this, I note. I look forward to the Minister's answers to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u237	I've got to get something straight. A motion has indeed been adopted by the Chamber, but that is the Knops/Bitch motion, so I say for completeness and the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u238	I have seven seconds left, so I can repeat it. Recovery: the Knops/Bitch motion on the price compensation, which my party has supported, is important. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u239	Mr. Chairman. I quote again from page 6 of the Court's investigation: "Realising the current ambitions of the Netherlands with the armed forces is not possible with the current Defence budget. With extra money alone, the problems cannot be solved. The Minister of Defence will have to make more sharp choices than hitherto." I asked her to do that in the first term and made suggestions to make those sharp choices, but I honestly didn't really get an answer to that question. Would that be possible in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u240	Three motions have been tabled. These have now reached the Minister. She can answer directly. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u241	Mr. Chairman. Just for the sake of completeness, I say the following, because I just saw messages passing by again. I'm gonna make one more strike in relation to the problems that Defense is facing right now. It is too easy to refer only to targets or cuts in the past. Of course they play a leading role, but it's not just about the 2011 policy letter; it's actually about the past two decades. It is also about the changing security situation, about the increased demands that NATO makes to its allies, including the Dutch armed forces, and about the enormous appeal that is being made to the armed forces at the same time. That combination causes us to have serious problems with operational readiness. So it is not simply due to one thing or one task. No, it's a combination of factors. Mr Houwers said: count your blessings. I do. It is good to note that there is support in the Chamber for further reinforcement of the armed forces. Mr Van Dijk would like to answer the question about the sharp choices. I've answered that four times. I refer to the first-term replies. Indeed, the concept of the piece is still being discussed at NATO ministerial meeting on 14 and 15 June, I say to Mrs Eijsink. If the final version has even changed one point, I will ensure that Mrs Eijsink and most certainly the rest of the Chamber are informed. I come to the multi-annual plans. The Court has entrusted itself with a task with regard to the multiannual plans. I want to keep that pure in this debate. The cabinet takes the motion on this matter seriously and the assignment that the Chamber itself makes, by participating in it with three departments. It seems logical to me to wait for the results of the round table. On that basis, we will continue the conversation with each other. I'm coming up on the Knops c.s. motion. in piece No. 244, which calls for a substantial and meaningful gesture to be made at the Warsaw Summit. That would be charming, but I would have to anticipate the budgetary negotiations. Mr Knops also knows that I cannot anticipate that. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I'm coming to the Voordewind c.s. motion. in piece No. 245. In fact, I have already responded in the first period to what is requested in the motion for a resolution. I have given an extensive response. It is also included in the report of the General Court. I have repeatedly outlined to the Chamber in letters and through other forms of reporting the multiannual perspective envisaged by the Cabinet. I have also provided information on the follow-up steps that are a priority. The next time I report further to the Chamber on, for example, material and human readiness is with a separate budget that appears on Princess Day, so September next. This will make it clear whether another step can be taken in the multiannual perspective. In short, I must discourage this motion. The Bontes motion in part No. 246, I'm afraid, too. Mr Teeven was right to point out that what is in this document is simply wrong. Taking steps towards the 2% is something other than steering a growth path that underpins the increase to 2%. I understand very well what Mr Bontes wants. To some extent, I support him in that. That is why I have put forward the multiannual perspective. I'll take that further. I very much hope that this will also be the case in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u242	The minister wants to go down fighting. She also just said that we all need to run a little faster. We have one Minister of Defense in the Netherlands. Luckily, we have one. We also have one cabinet. However, there are countries that have several governments. We have every confidence in our Secretary of Defense. We hope she'll do whatever it takes to help Defense. Together with colleagues Voordewind and Dijkgraaf, I have tabled an extremely sympathetic motion calling for a substantial, meaningful gesture towards NATO. In view of the first-term answer, I would have expected the Minister to say: hold the motion, Mr Knops, because I cannot anticipate it, but I understand what you mean. I understood that after the whole argument, but now the motion is simply dissuaded. Mr President, you can imagine that I am extremely disappointed. Did I misunderstand that the Minister is working for the Knops/Bitches motion, for example? This will also substantially contribute to the purchasing power of the defence sector. You can put that underneath it, too. If all this is resolved properly in the near future, then the Minister will actually comply with what I am asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u243	I think it's all good and nice. I support Mr Knops where it is possible and possible, especially if we are pursuing the same objectives. We are doing the same in this respect. I have just said that when it comes to price adjustment and exchange rate problems, this comes from my own pocket. When that was widely picked up in the Chamber, I welcomed it. If you do not solve these structural problems, the water continues to carry to the sea and I really fit for that. It would also be bad for the DOD to keep saying, "I'm sorry, we're in trouble again, and there's nothing we can do about it." These structural problems therefore need to be addressed. That is different from what Mr Knops is doing now. I told you, I think it's a very charming motion. However, I am not going to anticipate the 2017 budget, not even at the Warsaw Summit. But, of course, I feel strongly supported by the motion, even if I must discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-28.u244	I thank the Minister, the officials and the public.
