ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u1	Mr. Chairman. In the debate, the Minister undertook to settle a number of issues. So he would actually send a bill to the Chamber right after the summer recess. We're wondering where this is going. We have talked about undermining crime, especially in the South of the Netherlands. This approach would be stepped up, especially in the South of the Netherlands. We do see this in the proposed budget, but the actions under the various objectives are still a little unclear. We want to know why the South Netherlands is no longer specifically mentioned. Maybe the approach's off? That would surprise us very much. But we have also understood from the Minister that he is keen to look at a special system with which a kind of business case is set up to ensure that the extra effort against the undermining will also produce something for those who are so committed to it, in this case again: the South Netherlands. And it's not gonna work. Looks like a little drag on a dead horse. That's why I'm gonna go back to work on a motion. Perhaps this could be a backup for the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance have been working on a business case for some time to ensure that the proceeds from the "picking" of criminals can be returned to the citizens in the area where the criminals concerned have been active;]] [[Whereas this is a new opportunity which could give an additional boost to the fight against undermining crime in the South of the Netherlands in particular;]] [[calls on the Government to send this plan to the Chamber for the forthcoming budget treatment of the Ministry of Security and Justice in order to speed up the discussion, progress and entry into force of this business case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u2	We've talked about this a lot. I think the Minister has always stood beside us. The VVD has always stood beside us when we strongly advocated this. I would therefore very much like to see some action shown. Let that motion be meant for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr. Chairman. Before the summer recess, we talked about undermining crime and how to deal with it. Shortly afterwards, I was reminded by 'people in blue' of a very interesting opportunity which I would like to present to the Minister. In the municipality of Rotterdam, Mayor Aboutaleb has introduced a new means of tackling organised crime, namely a licensing obligation. If there is a permit requirement, a Bibob investigation can be carried out. If there is no licensing requirement, that is not possible. However, most sectors that are vulnerable or susceptible to undermining crime, such as car rental, transport or real estate, do not have a licence obligation. A municipality may, however, have that authorisation included in the APV, the general local regulation. They did that in Rotterdam. I thought that was such a creative idea that I made a motion for it. I'm reading that motion now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some sectors are sensitive to undermining crime but are not always subject to Bibob investigations because they are not subject to authorisation;]] [[noting that the municipality of Rotterdam has introduced a licensing obligation to promote a healthy business environment and tackle the undermining crime;]] [[Whereas municipalities may themselves include an authorisation requirement in their general local regulation;]] [[invites the government, following the example of the municipality of Rotterdam, to remind all municipalities of this possibility and to inform the Chamber of the use of this possibility by municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u4	I would point out to the Minister that I have spoken with SMEs in the Netherlands about this initiative. I asked if this didn't bite the entrepreneurs. I note that they are very positive about this initiative. I would like the Minister to respond as enthusiastically as the SME Netherlands itself. Furthermore, I would like to ask whether it is possible to arrange such a nationwide arrangement. That is a bit difficult, because this is now of course settled in the APV. Is there anything to figure out to roll this out, because this is such a good initiative? But I'll leave that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's been some fantastic weeks. Mr Tellegen has returned and will speak again on the police and related issues. During the general consultations we discussed in detail the Brabant Zeeland Task Force and the cooperation in dealing with undermining activities. I made a very inspiring work visit just before the recess and I was able to see for myself how effective this joint approach is. As far as the VVD is concerned, this approach deserves a follow-up. Whether it's hemp cultivation, criminal motorcycle gangs or picking criminal money, it's important that this form of cooperation gets a follow-up. Before the recess, the Minister was still unclear about the financing of this task force for the coming years. There would be administrative consultation between the partners. I would like to know from the Minister what the outcome of this consultation was, also because the province of North Brabant intended to act as a kind of co-finance for this project. She did get in touch with the Ministry to actually deliver that money. I have read through the budget and seen that in a section of the budget there is an amount of EUR 3 million for the Brabant Zeeland Task Force. Further on, I see that there has been a trajectory in which there is a growth model from 7 million to 10 million. Does this mean that the Minister will also bring other regions into line with this cooperation? During that work visit, I also became very clear about the role of the Tax Administration in this form of cooperation and about the difficulty of exchanging information. Can the Minister indicate whether there are any initiatives to improve and facilitate the exchange of information between the Tax Administration and the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u6	I'll see if the minister needs some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u7	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u8	Then we'll suspend for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u9	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for bringing this important issue, the approach to organised crime, to the House again. The subject will, I fear, continue to be of great concern to us in the coming years. Organised crime in the Netherlands has developed in recent years in such a way that we have to speak of a very serious problem. This applies not only to organised, industrialised hemp plantations, but also to synthetic drugs production. In addition, from liquidations to rip deals and stealing each other's cocaine imports in ports in the Netherlands or abroad, with the use of heavy and in many cases automatic weapons. As a result, we have a big problem with each other that we have to solve firmly. The Brabant Zeeland Task Force is a good example of this, but precisely because of its success we see drug dumping taking place in Gelderland, for example. There seems to be some kind of waterbed effect that we cannot close our eyes to. I have made additional funds available, on which I would like to inform the Chamber, as Mr Van Veen asked, before the budget debate. Those funds see not only Brabant and Zeeland, but also the provinces around them, for the simple reason that we see that we do not have to focus too much and just on the South Netherlands. Criminals don't do that either. For 2017, I have included further investments in a number of areas. Part of the extra available amount for undermining crime, a total of 3 million, will become available to Zeeland and Brabant. The Public Prosecutor's Office will receive 13 million euros next year, up to 19 million euros, including for tackling undermining. I support the regions with co-financing of the so-called RIECS, with over €700,000 per RIEC. Structurally, 3 million has been made available for the removal of criminal assets, particularly in the South of the Netherlands. There is therefore structural additional investment in the Public Prosecutor's Office, the FIOD and the police in order to tackle undermining crime. It's necessary. I would just like to add that I do not think that at the end of this cabinet period we can celebrate having brought undermining crime under control. This will require a very long time and certainly more investment in the future. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 131 requesting a business case. We're working on a business case. Both the Ministry of Finance and my own department are working hard to see if we can somehow launch new ideas about it. We have, in a way, included a similar action in the 2016 budget and in return for an investment we have already received revenue. In fact, we already work with a business case, but at the level of the ministry. It is very much a question of whether it could be done in another way, namely, as Mr Van Veen and Mrs Van Toorenburg said, that the proceeds should be returned. We're working on that. We will inform the House of this before the budget debate. I can therefore do three things now. I can find the motion superfluous because I'm gonna do it. I can find the motion to support policy and leave the verdict to the Chamber because I'm going to do what it says. I can take over the motion, too. So there are a lot of possibilities. Perhaps Mrs Van Toorenburg has an idea about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u10	If the Minister wants to be so honest today to say that it is a heavy burden and people are fighting hard but it is not just settled, then I am prepared to hold the motion. That's what I've heard, and not the least of it. The Minister can come up with a good plan later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u11	That is what the motion states: "calls on the government to send this plan to the Chamber for the forthcoming budget treatment of the Ministry of Security and Justice in order to speed up the discussion, progress and entry into force of this business case." It's complicated. This also has to do with the budgetary system. If Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to continue the motion, I appreciate it. In any case, I will ensure that the information we have is sent to the Chamber for budgetary treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u12	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (29911, No. 131). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u13	Then I come to the Kooiman/Recourt motion on part No. 132. I always have great difficulty with motions filed in this gremium, the Second Chamber of States General, whereas they actually see on the treatment and individual responsibility of an individual city council. That is certainly true if this motion comes from a party like the SP, which is represented in almost all the municipal councils of the Netherlands and also has a cadaver discipline. This discipline is such that if Mrs Kooiman decides that all SP groups in the municipal councils of the Netherlands will submit a proposal which includes an authorisation requirement in the APV (general local regulation) that is also happening. I would like to take a look at Mr Van Veen and Mr Van Oosten; a party like the VVD could enjoy that. We cannot do this, because liberals are different. In principle, I could say that this motion concerns the responsibility of individual municipalities, but I also see that the motion calls on the government to remind the municipalities of the possibilities that have been developed in Rotterdam; perhaps there is a good idea there. I could meet that request through the LIEC (National Information and Expertise Centre). I shall therefore leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber. However, I think it is wise for Mrs Kooiman to ensure that this step is taken in the right place, namely in the municipal councils of various municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u14	Unfortunately, we are not yet represented in every city council. We are going to change that, of course, but until then I am very happy that the Minister wants to give us a hand and bring it up everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u15	No, like I said, I'll bring it up with the LIEC. That is one place, where people are again in contact with all the RIECs (Regional Information and Expertise Centres). I'll leave it there. Then Mrs Kooiman can show a little more commitment towards the groups of her own party and ensure that it ends well. Mr Van Veen asked about the preparation of plans for the coming period to tackle the undermining crime. I will send a letter to the Chamber on this matter before the budget debate. I'm talking to all the parties, by the way. I will make a rather extensive work visit to Tilburg tomorrow in the context of the fight against crime in the South of the Netherlands. As the Chamber knows, we have already decided to continue the capacity of 125 fte of the police and 15 fte of the Public Prosecutor's Office to tackle undermining crime. That's how I answered all the questions. May I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Recourt and his wife, Mrs Dikkers, on their marriage. Through the magazine of the Chamber it has become to me that it has taken place. I do like the fact that the Acts show for years that the government is also extremely well-gold with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u16	I'm sure you can. I would also like to congratulate them from this seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-25.u17	Voting on motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
