ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about an amendment to the Health Organisation Act and some other laws in order to improve supervision, detection, compliance and enforcement. For this purpose, health insurers should be able to look even more closely into the data that the doctor or treatment provider keeps about his patient. This bill is not only unnecessary, because there are good ways to detect false declarations and fraud, but is mainly disproportionate because it offers medical professional secrecy. I will explain today that the SP believes that breaking medical professional secrecy is too important an instrument. We believe that this does not make detection more effective, harms the possibility of criminalising care fraud and also unnecessarily harms privacy. That's very serious. We have major debates on care fraud. The extent of this has become clear. EUR 485 million has been declared wrong; this amount has been recovered by health insurers. Of these, 11.1 million were frauds. It has to be said that this fraud was often committed by carers, but is that a reason for sacrificing medical professional secrecy? First of all, I will deal with a matter of principle: who should be investigating? We opt for the government, for compliance, investigation and monitoring agencies, such as the FIOD, the NZa, the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate, and you name it. They may act under administrative and criminal law. We believe that this is a very important basis. That is why you should not place the detection in the hands of a commercial party, which can only operate in the case of care fraud in civil law. If a health insurance company detects fraud, it will, of course, suspend payment, but has it already been prosecuted? No, if the health care provider wants to do that himself, he'll have to file a civil suit and have to take possession of evidence. But can a health care provider do that? No, because he's not a tracking or compliance agency. Let's do it in such a way that you always know that it can be arrested under administrative or criminal law, regardless of how you feel about the principled position of commercial companies versus the government in search. In reply to questions, the Minister indicated that she felt it was part of the current private system that health insurers did so themselves. She thinks that's the most logical thing, because health insurance companies would be closest to the fire. Yes, health insurers have the task of identifying, but the real approach and access to medical records should be reserved for authorities, as far as we are concerned, bodies with a public service mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	I hear Mrs Leijten say that a health insurance provider should not detect fraud. Does Mrs Leijten say that a health insurance company simply has to pay all claims blindly and not check whether the claims are lawful?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They also have a very important position to be able to indicate that something is going wrong. However, with regard to investigative powers, it is very difficult for health insurers to obtain evidence in such a way that it actually leads to a conviction in civil proceedings. This is still separate from the point that I have just made that there should be no civil procedure in the case of fraud. I will propose this later; I have suggested this before. As far as I am concerned, an insurer who believes that a health care provider is very expensive should always make the highest claims and any patient who gives or gives treatment should therefore be given serious suspicions of fraud. I am talking about the FIOD, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate, and you name it. Together they go there. The investigating authorities will then be able to confiscate the evidence and prosecute immediately. Then we hit two birds with one stone. If you leave it in civil law, it becomes very difficult to prove it, because, for example, a health insurance provider is not allowed to confiscate material from a healthcare provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mrs. Leijten is moving very fast, with seven-mile boots. It is, of course, a question of a health insurance company having to check declarations. You will only get into the process Mrs Leijten is talking about when a health insurance company comes to the conclusion that incorrect or incorrect declarations have been made. Does Mrs Leijten agree with me that the core task of a health insurance company is to check declarations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	Yeah, but I didn't deny that, did I? All I'm saying is that at the moment you take the step that this bill is taking, where a health insurance company has to check in detail at person and patient level whether there is fraud, I'm going to argue in a moment that I don't think it's necessary to do this with personal data. Look, yeah, but you're gonna have to get the conviction out of there. So you have to look, signal and report it to the authorities, and then they have to take over. In my view, this is also the most effective way of achieving Mrs Klever's and her party's desire to bring those who commit care fraud to justice. If you leave all this to the health insurance company, what this law does, and also create additional opportunities to look into patient data, according to the Minister's reasoning that it is really only the private party's job, I think we can very difficult even get health fraud tried. That cannot be the intention of this bill. I think we're closer than it looks, but let me just get on with my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	Finally, Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	The SP and the PVV both want care fraud to be detected, but I think we do differ on a point of view. The PVV believes that the health insurance company should do everything in its power to check claims and to detect fraud. A whole protocol has been drawn up for this, with a whole step-by-step plan, and only at the end of that roadmap can the health insurer, under certain conditions, look into a file, for example to see whether the declared care has actually been delivered. This seems to me to be a core task of the health insurance company: to see if it has actually been delivered for what it is paying for. I don't understand why the SP doesn't think that's the job of the health insurance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	Medical confidentiality is one of the key values of our healthcare system. That's especially there for the patient, because you run a risk if your medical records are known to insurers who can use them for up to days. I do not like to sacrifice that on the basis of the fact that there are many other possibilities. I'll explain all of them, too. I do not understand why the PVV, which is always so critical of what health insurance companies do, is now fine that they can see in detail what is going on with Mrs Klever himself medically. That is a very big problem. That's a very big risk. And it's totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	Previously, I proposed that the health insurers who have a serious suspicion of fraud should be supported by investigating bodies. With the D.A., the FIOD, the NZa and the Inspection SZW, they can raid together on suspicion of fraud. Evidence can then be seized, which the health insurance company cannot now do. Why haven't I gotten a response to that route? If we go along that route, we do not need to break medical confidentiality. Before I go into that interest, I would also ask the Minister to show that access to personal data, thus linking medical data to a person, helps to detect fraud and false declarations. Is it really necessary to see that the patient's name is Mrs. Schippers or Mrs. Leijten? Is that necessary? I don't think that's necessary. You can see if a healthcare professional works without the necessary references. It is a signal when dbcs are opened that do not match, or always in the highest price range. These are all signs that a health insurance company can do something, but to determine whether there is actually fraud, it is irrelevant which patient is involved. It is irrelevant whether that is Mrs Schippers or Mrs Leijten. The point is that the necessary basis on which that treatment takes place is not there. Is it therefore necessary to check whether a declaration is incorrect or fraudulent in any way to have the personal data present? If that is not the case, you could make a proposal whereby it is anonymized. This would take a big sting out of the bill. The abolition of medical professional secrecy is unnecessary and unwise. Medical professional secrecy is the basis for the patient's confidence in his or her treatment. The patient must be able to trust, and continue to trust, that data is in safe hands, even if the treatment provider is pressured by a health insurance provider to share data. Medical confidentiality is there to protect the patient. It is a violation of his privacy when looking into that data. It can lead to major problems in the lives of patients or former patients. What does the government think it does with someone's job opportunities if it's known he's been treated for an addiction, for example? Not only possible employers will find this information interesting; also the insurers themselves. To give them the possibility of access to the medical data of insured persons for inspection purposes is to bind the cat to the bacon. It is well known that insurers commit people who have had cancer differently to supplementary insurance than people who have not had cancer. We know that health insurance companies do risk selection. The Minister himself recognizes that. It would be downright naive to think that they would not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mrs Leijten is right to be concerned about professional secrecy. This concern is shared by Parliament and we have all expressed it in the preliminary discussions and in the reports, but Mrs Leijten is now talking very black and white about abolishing professional secrecy. That's pretty big when you see what's actually going to be regulated in the law. It will be a step-by-step plan and all kinds of safeguards will be built in. I will also mention in my speech later that I have questions about this. But if there is deliberate fraud within a solidarity-based care system, what can we do, according to the SP, if we can never get to information about that actual fraud, about acts that have not been done but have been declared?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	I just mentioned two options. The first option is that if there are serious suspicions, the investigation services and the prosecution, which can actually start criminal proceedings, go along with it to seize. It is possible that medical data may be accessed, but there is a criminal basis for this. That's different from when a commercial party does. The second option is that it can be completely anonymized. You could imagine that there would be inspection by, for example, an independent doctor. The Minister himself has let us know that she wants to investigate that route. For example, that independent doctor can determine on the basis of the file that something did not happen. There is no need to know that Mrs Volp is involved. But it's necessary to find out if a doctor says he did something, when he didn't. However, information linked to a person does not have to end up with the health insurers. If you allow that, you will break medical professional secrecy on a very serious basis, because even if it is only step 11, if the health insurance provider wants it, that step will be taken. The road map, which I shall come back to in a moment, has very unclear boundaries. It's not clear when you're going to take the next step. I am sure Mrs Volp will be concerned about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	I share that concern with Mrs Leijten and I will also ask the Minister to explain it. We do need that clarity in order to be able to judge this law on its merits. Mrs Leijten says, as I share with her, that health insurers are not about the detection of fraud, but about the alerting of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	She says that other procedures should therefore be followed, such as a seizure investigation. But the professional secrecy that Mrs Leijten attaches so much to will also be broken at that time, won't it? After all, a specific patient's file is being looked at. Here too, we can build in the necessary safeguards, but that does not really provide a solution to what can be arranged here, including the guarantees that we both still have questions about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	But the government does that on the basis of real suspicions. The data are sent to the government for detection purposes, not to a commercial party such as the health insurance company. This proposal, which supports serious signals, is a response to discussions with health insurers, such as DSW, which does a lot of fraud detection. The chairman of DSW says he doesn't need to know if it's resident A or insured B. He is concerned with a referral letter, because that is often the first signal, and with the question of whether each patient is doing exactly the same and the most expensive in a particular practice. The President says that if he is supported by investigators who can confiscate evidence, he doesn't have to collect endless evidence himself, at the risk of the perpetrator fleeing or never getting anything, because the money is already gone. We can then proceed with criminal proceedings immediately. I think we'll hit two birds with one stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	Finally, Mrs Volp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	A health insurance company should first of all ensure that good quality care is provided at a good price and that everyone can make legitimate use of it. That's what the health insurance company has to do. Mr Oomen van DSW has a large fraud department. That department indicates whether there are things other than average and whether the proper procedures have been followed. It seems fine to me that he very often does not need the personal data, but if he does not get out and there is very complicated and serious fraud, for which this roadmap will provide guarantees...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	We hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yes, I do have that question. And if there is to be a test, which I also have questions about, as an ultimum remedium, you should consider the option of linking that data, so that you can then, for example, start a criminal investigation or trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	That is an ultimatum remedium, which already exists. If there is a serious suspicion of fraud or other criminal offences, a health care provider or care provider may already be invaded. Data can be viewed. But that is different from offering this opportunity to health insurance companies, because they are commercial and private parties. If this is in the hands of public authorities that investigate and prosecute, it is not only more effective, but also safer. That is the point of principle. But the fact that medical confidentiality can be broken as an ultimatum remedium for detection is, in my view, already the same. I just don't want to put it in the hands of the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	I think Mrs Leijten makes some important statements by describing it as an ultimatum remedium. That's how I see it. You need to look at it carefully. She indicated that she had a conversation with health insurance companies. Apparently, these conversations did not reveal the role of medical advisers within health insurance companies. Is Mrs Leijten aware of this position and is she not simply subject to medical professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	Yeah, that's right, and I know that position. I just think that a commercial party such as an insurer should not be given this power. I will go into this in detail. I have just mentioned the risk of risk selection, but there are more dangers. They already have a lot of signaling and tracking to do, but they cannot show the Minister how many fraud detectives they employ. That's curious, isn't it? I'll get to that. You can settle it that way in the law, but it's not supposed to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mrs Leijten spoke to the health insurers. Where does it conclude that a medical adviser has an interest in returning the name of the person concerned to the health insurance provider if the medical adviser has gone to the health care provider and examined the files in relevant parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	There could be a lot of reasons for that. It can't happen. But the fact that it can be a risk. That is still separate from the possible safeguards of legal protection that you have when a government agency raids. You can still appeal that, but a health insurance company is civil. That makes it a lot more complicated. So I want to make it more effective by putting it in the hands of investigative authorities so that it can always be removed from administrative and criminal law. In that case, relevant information can also be seized for the purposes of detection and satisfaction. I think we'll be doing much more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	I am still curious about the general position of the Socialist Party. Does this apply in principle to all forms of insurance? And does the SP therefore consider that in the Netherlands damage insurers are no longer allowed to check whether sunglasses have been declared correctly during the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	Sunglasses are something other than need treatment because of psychological or somatic problems. If Mr De Lange wipes that up, that says a lot about the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	In Mrs Leijten's reasoning, I often hear the word 'effectiveness' come back. How does she see that argument about effectiveness in relation to the opportunity principle of the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	It is about a great social interest, namely that care money is well spent. Where there is fraud, however much or no matter how little, there must be satisfaction for society. It also needs to be resolved quickly. The chairman of DSW explained it to me. Here's what he said. Suppose I signal something and the payment stopped. If I can't guarantee that the money will be well spent, I'm not worth a snipe if I let that payment go through. But then I won't be able to get any more evidence, because someone's claims will be dropped. The moment I continue to pay for declarations where I have the serious suspicion of fraud to obtain evidence, I may have to do so for a year or two years. Both cases are not effective, not even when it comes to the principle of opportunity. If he's operating fast, there's a risk that the BOLO won't work. If he doesn't operate quickly, there's a risk we'll lose too much money. I thought that made sense. He gave several examples of this. We'll just need investigative services that say, okay, we'll get a signal from a health insurance company, put that by our bar and go on the road. Perhaps there is the big problem at the moment, namely that there is too little capacity, affinity or attention to these serious social issues, because it is care money and it is also criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	Certain cases and infringements are now being dealt with in civil law. Health insurers do that themselves. Cases of great social interest go to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which often causes prosecution. When all the cases go to the Public Prosecutor's Office, that does not mean, of course, that all these cases will be prosecuted on the basis of the principle of opportunity. So people who have committed a minor offense would just get away with it. But that can't be the case, can it? Fraud still needs to be punished, don't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	Sure. Lost your fee in fraud is the first thing. The health insurance companies can do the same now. They can go after it under civil law and hope they get the money back. But if someone does it knowingly and knowingly, he harms patients and violates his own oath, then I think there should actually be criminal prosecution. That decision lies with the D.A., but he can discuss with the SZW or the FIOD who picks it up. We know that they are on the table with each other in the context of the Task Force on Integrity Healthcare Sector. By the way, not one case has gone to the FIOD in the past year. Well, that's a good thing to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	That also makes it clear that if you put everything at the state's attorney's office later, there's a pretty good chance that not all cases will be prosecuted. The CDA wants something to happen when fraud is committed. Mrs Leijten points out that some of the matters will have to remain with the health insurance provider, but as I hear the PvdA say, the medical record will still be looked at in the extreme. How is that going to work if Mrs Leijten says that the health insurance company is no longer allowed to look into the medical file, but at the same time the Public Prosecutor's Office is not going to track down every fraud case? People get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u34	Then it's the same as now, Mrs. Bruins Slot. Then the payment will be stopped. The health insurance company delivers it and then it's up to the task force to see how he's gonna act. If we consider that to be too thin, we will ensure that there is more capacity. In fact, we have asked for this more often in common. The health insurance companies indicate it anyway: 485 million false declarations, 11 of which are fraud. We cannot really find what happened to it in the Task Force report, but unfortunately I have not heard any major issues in the news. The FIOD has taken a zero approach, we read in the report. Of course, that's where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u35	SP and CDA share the objective: to tackle fraud. But I hear Mrs Leijten now saying that health insurance companies should forward fraud cases. They will not be able to see that in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u36	They will not be able to see what in all cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u37	They will not in all cases be able to make up for the fact that they no longer have access to the medical file if the SP plan continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u38	Then they put it in the hands of a government agency. They don't have that either, and they can now detect and prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u40	Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights states that everyone has the right to respect for his or her private life. In accordance with the second paragraph of this Article, restrictions must be provided for by law, restrictions must serve an interest mentioned in a law and must, finally, be necessary for democratic society. The latter implies that the restriction provides for an urgent social need and that the measure is appropriate to realise the importance to be served. If all this is in order, there is subsidiarity and proportionality. Now the bill contains a number of restrictions on Article 8. The third is the extension of the provision of personal data by the healthcare provider to health insurers. In particular, this restriction has far-reaching consequences for private life. Is it an urgent need for society? Does the interruption lead to the realization of the importance to be served? Ergo, does it meet the requirements of subsidiarity and proportionality? There are less radical solutions possible; I have already mentioned one. But what is the Minister's response to the possibility that an independent doctor may have access to a medical file after which the potentially relevant data for detection will be further processed anonymously? The Minister wants to examine this possibility, because she also does not want to break medical confidentiality. Why don't we wait for that? Last week, Zorgverzekerings Nederland announced that a total amount of €11.1 million of fraud was detected in 2015. Of the billions previously estimated, nothing seems to be right. It's a percentage of 0.015. Is it then proportionate to abolish medical professional secrecy for everyone? Given the likely extent of the care fraud and the possibility already available to health insurers together with investigating bodies, I conclude that this bill is contrary to the ECHR. Late last night we received a letter from the Minister about a report by the Dutch Patient Federation following a report on privacy. The Minister lets us know some results and she stresses that as many as 62% of people think it's okay to have control, of course, I understand that and that they understand that insurers need certain data for that control. I think it's understandable, too. However, the Minister's reaction does not indicate that the report shows that 83% of people are not or are only a little aware of their rights to privacy in healthcare. We are talking about participants, 89% of whom are over 50 years of age, 84% have one or more chronic diseases and 87% have secondary or higher theoretical training. These are people who might know, but eight out of ten don't know about privacy in care. Why do I think it is so important to emphasise that this is about protecting medical professional secrecy? Earlier, this minister tried to abolish the free choice of doctors, one of the other key values in healthcare. That was blocked in 2014 by the Upper House. Today, another core value is at stake: medical professional secrecy. Let us not tell ourselves that we are talking about less today. In replying to the questions I asked with many colleagues, the Minister does pretend that it is a small step, but something else is evident from internal documents. Following repeated pressure from my group, the Minister sent the reports of the Health Sector Task Force to the Chamber. Despite more than half of them being blackened, the year of transparency is over.I read the following sentence in a report dated 29 February 2014: "The NZa briefly explains the investigation and the main recommendations, including the need to break up medical professional secrecy and adapt Article 13 of the Health Insurance Act, free choice of doctors and medical professional secrecy." Can the Minister send the investigation the NZa points out to the Chamber? The research is briefly explained, but then it turns black again. I don't know what private views of officials are there, but I'd like to see that investigation. Apparently, that wasn't secret, because it wasn't blacked out. I think it's good to read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u41	I hear just about the other sentence of Mrs Leijten that this bill is breaking medical confidentiality. One is not at all true at all, and the second is that health insurers can already look at patient files in certain cases. Is Mrs Leijten aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u42	Sure. As far as I'm concerned, neither should I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u43	I have never heard you fulminate against the fact that health insurance companies can carry out checks after going through a whole step-by-step plan. Only in step 9 can they look into a file, with all kinds of safeguards. We've been able to do that for a long time. I've never heard Mrs Leijten say anything about that. The only thing this bill does is align the refund policies with the natural policies. Mrs Leijten can't object to that, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u44	I would say: look into the parliamentary questions in which healthcare insurers exercise material and substantive control over general practitioners because they would have too often driven visitors to patients at a terminal stage. There are a number of times when I have asked for attention to be paid to this. Perhaps that did not happen, but I do not think it is so logical at all that this should happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u45	Finally, Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u46	I don't understand. Mrs Leijten has the highest word in a debate on fraud because there is so much fraud, because it needs to be dealt with, and you name it. Now the Minister makes it possible for health insurers to better detect and tackle fraud, but now Mrs Leijten has the highest word again because that is not good either. What does Mrs Leijten want? Does Mrs Leijten simply want health insurance companies to pay blindly all the claims?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u47	I would prefer to see health insurers replaced by a national health fund, but that is another debate. I would like to see us putting an end to all these declarations, but that is also another debate. I don't think it's necessary to take this step. That's what I'm talking about here. That is why I have tabled an amendment, and Mrs Klever has seen it. We disagree on this point. Not about the need to detect fraud; of course this must be done. However, I believe that this is a task for the government. It seems to me very foolish to put that in the hands of commercial parties. I am surprised that the PVV agrees. Health insurers may have a financial interest in accessing the medical records of insured persons, but they do not really have that in the fight against fraud. Fraud costs more than it produces, and therefore health insurers do not do so wholeheartedly. In the explanatory memorandum to this law, we read that the Minister also notes this. Disease insurance companies do not appear to have sufficient control. This bill doesn't change that. There is no incentive, then, to use that word in The Hague, for health insurance companies to tackle fraud because it costs them money on balance and because the contributor pays anyway. This is also apparent from the figures. Annually check health insurance companies......................................................................................................................................................... Prior to that, the health insurance companies employed no more than 80 fraud fighters in 2013. So these are 12.5 million declarations per fraud fighter. On the question of whether the number of fraud victims is increasing or decreasing in the health insurance sector, the Minister cannot answer because from 2013 onwards, the number of FTEs can no longer be identified because each health insurance company organises fraud control in its own way. On Tuesday evening we received the report from the Health Fraud Collection Centre, at our request, as I have just referred to it. That is the collection point of the NZa and that reporting concerns 2015, so last year. This shows that the number of signs of fraud is decreasing to 428 but also that they come only in 65 cases from health insurers. Of a total of 13 million insured persons and 1 billion declaration rules, 65 have received signals from the health insurance provider. Is this now the serious investigative task of the health insurers, I ask the Minister? Does she really think that such a thing as access to medical data linked to personal data is proportionate to the disease? The Minister pretends that only in the most extreme cases the medical record is being examined. In order to strengthen this, it is proposing a step-by-step plan of eleven control steps. Only in the final steps is there to see the medical record. An ultimum remedium. That has already been mentioned. However, what does the assessment of the Personal Data Authority show? The dividing line between the different steps is butter soft. It is not clear when a control target has been achieved in one step or not before moving to another. That's up to the health care provider himself. If the health insurance company wants all the data on the table, that's what happens. There is also a double point in the Minister's reasoning on the scale at which she says medical data will be understood. On the one hand, she says: this will not happen massively. For example, it points to the fact that health insurers see about 1,500 dossiers on an annual basis. On the other hand, according to the Minister, there is no beginning to request prior authorisation from insured persons. At first it did not want to inform afterwards, but in the meantime it has embraced a proposal to this effect. Are 2,500 letters delivered, Mr/Miss, in the context of fraud investigation we would like to see your data, can you give permission, kind regards, your health insurance company really have so much red tape on it, out of a total of 13 million contributors? There are two other issues in this debate. Previously, the Board of Appeal for Business found that the importance of health insurers in the availability of diagnostic information does not outweigh the concerns from the patient's perspective, treatment and professional secrecy of the treatment provider. In line with this, I believe that we should no longer provide diagnostic information on the insured person in the declarations. That is undesirable and unnecessary. I have tabled an amendment to this effect. Let there be no misunderstanding, I say to Mrs Klever. Fraud is a financial crime and must be detected and punished. Criminality Even organised crime is undermining people's confidence in health care and society. But isn't it better to avoid fraud where you can? The current system of payment per operation encourages fraud. In fact, it is often impossible to even determine whether there is fraud at all. I refer to a recent study in mental health care. Is the government prepared to abolish the payment per operation through the very complex declaration system? Is this complex declaration system not the reason why for years the annual accounts of hospitals and ggz institutions have been barely verifiable and sometimes not approved by the accountant? In addition, we also see something else. There is a whole army of people who have been able to advise healthcare providers to make optimal declarations. I don't have to tell the Minister this because we've been talking about this for years. Despite the amount of consultants and consultancy firms active in this field at the moment, the Minister does not consider that this need to be mapped out at all. She's not interested in it. How much advisory work is now being done in the care of ultimately focusing on the maximum possible declaration, just within the limits of the law, but actually a little beyond the limits of morality? Does this army lead to consultants who are constantly working to bring upcoding, maximum declaration and smart declaration to the man everywhere, not also to fraud within themselves? Why doesn't the government do anything about this? It should be clear that medical professional secrecy does not need to be broken for fraud detection purposes. It forms the basis for the patient's trust or cared for in his or her carer. This medical confidentiality is enshrined in the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. In the detection of care fraud, the health insurance companies, the NZa, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the FIOD and the Inspectorate SZW all play a very important role; health insurance companies play a very important role in identifying us. As far as we are concerned, the public authorities, the investigative bodies, then go into the repressive sphere: fines, measures and criminal law. Signaling is therefore an important task, but I am not convinced that access to medical data is necessary to combat fraud effectively. The current resources are far from exhausted. Simplifying funding can significantly reduce upcoding and maximum declaration. The establishment of financing may make the system less susceptible to fraud. There are sufficient resources to take good steps to tackle fraud at source and to detect it afterwards. Medical confidentiality and access to patient files are disproportionate. That is why I have tabled two amendments to this point. 5 and 6. In the meantime it has become a different song, because a technical improvement was needed, thanks to the Ministry. But let us be clear that we will always continue to debate the issue of care fraud, false declarations and maximum declarations, but we will propose the right instruments and not the fraud of medical professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you. And it was amendment No. 6. That has been amended in Amendment No 1 to the motion for a resolution. 20. I now give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. Combating fraud in healthcare is important. It must not be the case that money for the care of profiteers disappears. It is therefore also necessary for health insurers to have sufficient tools to deal with fraud. At the same time, the CDA believes that medical professional secrecy should be protected. Care must be taken to ensure that patients' medical data and personal data are not accessible to everyone. It's about sensitive information from people. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister now lays down the current rules on the control of health insurance companies in a law. For this it was regulated in much lower legislation, which made it much worse for the Chamber to control what the Minister does with medical professional secrecy. It is therefore an improvement that we have now adopted legislation which has been checked by us. However, the Council of State, our main advisor, has provided the Minister with a number of important opinions on how to do this as carefully as possible. I read back that the Minister has not taken over all the opinions of the Council of State. It is not yet clear to the CDA, even after written consultation with the Minister, why it does not accept all the suggestions for that extra lock on the door when it comes to the protection of personal data and medical data. If a health insurance provider has the suspicion of fraud after an earlier investigation, he can carry out a physical check. After nine steps, this material check means that in a small number of cases you also look at the insured person's medical records, as I have heard several colleagues say. That's a violation of medical confidentiality. That must therefore be done very carefully and only under the responsibility of a medical adviser, who must always be a doctor or someone under the responsibility of that doctor. The Council of State had a number of comments on the information which the medical adviser, that doctor, may give to the health insurance provider after having looked into the files. The Council of State indicated that the medical adviser should only give the conclusion to the health insurer. The Council indicated that it would recommend this for reasons of proportionality. The Minister does not agree with this opinion of the Council of State, according to the written documents. She felt that the medical adviser, the doctor, should also provide the basis for the conclusion. She says that this is in the interest of the legal procedures that may arise between the health insurer and the healthcare provider. But where is the boundary between the justification of the conclusion and the inspection given by a medical adviser to the health insurance company in parts of the medical file? Soon the explanatory pages will be long and half the medical records will be with the health insurance company. I understand, therefore, that the Council of State says that this conclusion must be very compact, because the health insurance provider does not need to know everything, just the much-needed one. Soon you'll have a medical consultant who will easily give you much more data than is necessary. How does the Minister ensure that this is done in a careful manner? The second thing the Minister does in this bill is to significantly extend Article 70 of the Market Organisation Health Act. The Dutch Healthcare Authority will be required to provide medical and criminal personal data to the Tax Office, the police, the special investigation services and the Public Prosecutor's Office on request. That is a major extension. So does the Council of State. The Council of State therefore recommends that the law explicitly lays down what information can be provided and for what purpose. The Minister says: I will simply continue to settle this in a ministerial arrangement, because I can be flexible in this way; if there is a need for a change in the interim, I can take care of it quickly. The CDA considers flexibility important, but it must also be careful. There must also be external control. It is necessary to consider whether the additional data that will be shared with all those investigation services are necessary for the purpose we are trying to achieve with each other. Why doesn't the Minister choose an instrument between a ministerial arrangement and a law? Why doesn't she just take care of this in a General Measure of Governance? The advantage of this is that the Council of State gives an opinion on it. Another advantage is that as a Lower House we can still discuss whether we are doing so carefully to provide information from the Dutch Health Authority to investigation services. It concerns very sensitive information: personal data, medical data, criminal data. I have an amendment in preparation which is now in preparation for technical advice from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposing to move from ministerial arrangements to General Administrative Measures. That is simply an extra lock on the door, so that we from the Chamber, but also from the Council of State, can monitor the provision of so much data to many different investigative services. The IRS, the police and the D.A. are getting the medical records, too. Can the Tax Office, the police and the Public Prosecutor take note of this? Or do we have a police officer or an inspector from the Tax Office who can look into all that medical data himself, while a health insurance company must have a medical advisor and the NZa has certain safeguards for that? When that data is in the government, can we have everyone look in it? I would like an explanation from the Minister. Healthcare providers can therefore also be asked to provide information from health insurers and investigation services. The Minister writes that the healthcare provider monitors the legal limits to the collection of personal data. If he does not check the reason of the health insurance and investigation services and thereby violates the law, he violates his medical professional secrecy. That is to say, if the healthcare provider, the doctor, himself does not properly check whether he is in breach of his own rightful and legal right to give that information to the health insurance provider or to the investigation services. There is therefore a very heavy responsibility. The Minister writes that when it comes to your personal data, for example, my medical data or that of Mrs Volp's wife, you can file a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office and then prosecute it. But how do I find out that my medical records have been provided to the investigation services? Is it now so arranged that if those medical records go to search services, then I know? Otherwise, I can't call the bell anywhere to indicate that my personal data has been misused. I would like a further explanation from the Minister on this point. It is also important that there are additional due diligence requirements for handling diagnostic information from mental health care. Unfortunately, there is still often a stigma to having a mental illness. The Council of State recommends that an exception be provided for the provision of diagnostic information in the case of physical checks of declarations for ggz patients who object to the indication of diagnostic information. In fact, it is not sufficiently clear to me whether the Minister is dealing with this now. It seems that the Minister makes it possible for diagnostic information from the ggz to be provided. Is this true? How does this relate to the opinion of the Council of State? Fraud with care money just shouldn't pay off. Healthcare insurers have an important task to monitor claims and to detect fraud. The investigation services have the task of getting serious fraudsters behind bars. For this, it is important that health insurance companies are able to do their work properly, but above all carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mrs Bruins Slot mentions a number of issues on which she would like an answer from the Minister. It wants a number of specifications, in particular on the procedure with which the Court deals with this, in order to build in more safeguards. So apparently the CDA simply agrees with the main principle of this law. According to the CDA, therefore, the fact that medical professional secrecy will be restricted is a good way to combat fraud. Isn't that what I'm listening to in her input?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u51	D66 has made a very positive contribution and has actually embraced the bill. It is therefore a good thing that Mr Verhoeven asks me to do so, because we were more reluctant in our written contributions. At present, medical data at the final stage of physical checks can already be accessed by a medical adviser in certain cases and under certain guarantees. With this bill, it is finally settled by law. This is an improvement on the current situation. The CDA had no objection to the previous situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u52	So the answer to my question is: yes, the CDA is okay with tackling fraud by giving patients' data more often to health insurance companies and putting doctors under pressure to violate medical professional secrecy now and then. That is the summary of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u53	No, not more. This bill even better regulates that this is going to happen carefully, because it has legal guarantees. That is clearly a better lock on the door than what we have at the moment. This is an improvement in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u54	I would like to make the following statement to Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA: capacity elsewhere should never be a reason to violate medical professional secrecy by giving health insurers access to medical records.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u55	In my opinion, in the current balance sheet, the health insurance provider should also check when paying care that the declaration has been properly made. I think it's really bad if we just start paying all the claims. So health insurers have a job to check for fraud. In the extreme, if they do not find out, they also have the task of having a medical adviser, a doctor, look into the medical record. I also believe, as I have said in previous debates, that there should be sufficient capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office to deal with fraud. I would like to see more capacity for this, because we see fraud cases being taken up on a number of points. Fortunately, we now also see that insurers themselves are doing more to tackle fraudsters. In addition, the more serious fraudsters are being chased again through criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u56	That's the last thing I'm really wondering. I wonder if it is the right and the fastest route to take evidence from health insurers, who then decide whether or not to bring it to the Public Prosecutor's Office or the FIOD. I am surprised that Mrs Bruins Slot, who in previous debates really cut off the capacity of investigative services to detect care fraud, is actually losing that point altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u57	It's two routes that run at the same time. I have already noticed in Mrs Leijten's speech that she is suddenly making one course of action. On the one hand, there is the civil-law trajectory, where the health insurance provider examines whether the care has been provided and whether it has been delivered in a good way. We have seen examples in which certain doctors, among others a psychiatrist, had delivered a lot of "care" that was not at all a concern. Healthcare insurers have found out by checking that that didn't work. That finally went to the D.A.'s office. The D.A.'s gonna handle this in a criminal courtroom. If you narrow this down to just the criminal justice route, a lot of checks will not take place properly and people will not be able to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u58	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u59	Europsyche hasn't been dealt with. The reimbursement of care for patients is no longer available. A lot of patients lost their treatment. It wasn't all fraud, but it hasn't been dealt with criminally. That would have been right; what would that have been right! For years, mental health care has been paid for, even in relation to treatments that we all say were not diseases. The St.Anthony Hospital has also been dealt with very little or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u60	That is precisely to the question I asked Mrs Leijten: the Public Prosecutor has the principle of opportunity and can therefore decide whether or not to take up certain fraud cases and whether or not these cases are serious enough. This means that things simply remain, but because health insurers also have a job to detect fraud, you see through the civil law route that fraud does not pay off. We should not want fraud to pay off in this healthcare system. That money has to go back to care and not disappear in the pockets of people who steal it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u61	Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u62	Then I would like to know how many civil law cases have been successfully conducted by the health insurance companies. There are hardly any of them to my knowledge. They can stop the payment, and they must do so immediately, but the search isn't taking place. That's my big problem. We do light up the medical confidentiality and we do damage people's privacy, but where the health insurance companies have to track down, they do not do so or hardly do so, and where the public prosecutor should turn it into a matter, there is too little capacity. There is actually the wrong priority. I'm sorry the CDA's going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u63	It is a matter of civil law, not of civil law. The important thing is that you handle fraud in a good way. That must be done carefully. It is therefore a good thing that the law lays down that medical professional secrecy can only be broken in the last instance. I really fear that the SP proposal will lead to far more fraud than if we deal with it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr. Chairman. Suppose you get a car accident, your child gets seriously ill or your mother gets a new hip. You want to be able to count on the best care. The beauty of the Netherlands is that it doesn't matter whether you're poor or rich, young or old or sick or healthy. Everyone gets the same good care. We want this solidarity and good quality of care to be maintained, now, but also later, when we need it when we get older. In order to keep this high good going, we do have an expensive duty to spend our care money well. Unfortunately, we also know the stories of ghost invoices or no-standard caregivers, who file the case by declaring more expensive or unexecuted treatments. People are right to be angry about this. "Fraud increases the cost of medical care. It is also in my interest to take action against this." This is a striking statement by a panel member from the Netherlands Patient Federation survey. This feels unjust and eats up the foundation of good care as we know it in the Netherlands. This cannot and must not happen. Caregivers, as well as healthcare users, can be expected not to cheat with declarations, just to make the care in the Netherlands so good and to keep it. If they do, we should be able to count on them to run into the light.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'm very much in favour of that. You can't cheat on declarations and you can't cheat at all. The involvement of the VVD in the debate on care fraud has been marked by the reasoning: probably it is not fraud, but they do not know how to declare. We also know that the VVD doesn't do anything to the army about care consultants who, in hospitals and in ggz institutions, all give advice to make as smart and effective a statement as possible: as expensive as possible. Would it not be right for Mr De Lange, if he means what he says here, to support the initiative of the SP to do a large-scale study of all these consultants and their opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u66	I think we should stick to the core. The core is that deliberately declaring more than the care provided is fraud. If there are people who know about it, they must report it to the authorities that are responsible for it, because it is incredibly important that action can actually be taken. In my view, that is the essence of this bill. That is why I am a little disappointed in the fact that the SP does not, in the end, take every opportunity to combat fraud. If you know that declarations are being bullied, you have to report them to the authorities, and that has to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u67	In fact, it's so crazy that, if you call optimizing a declaration "smart declaration," this is an unknown term in the government. It's about "correct" or "not correct." And only then will it be checked if there is a mistake about fraud. But we all know it's happening, don't we? Lists have been found at St. Antony's Hospital, where it used to say: if you fill in those and those codes, you have the maximum declaration. There were people who had been under the knife and would have undergone two interventions to their hearts that couldn't even be together! That was all declared. We know there's a traffic light system in mental health. The Minister has even distanced himself from this in the debate, and yet we do not regard it as fraud. We're all fine with those advices to make the most of it. Then where exactly is the border for the VVD? When is maximum declaration permitted and when will it become fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u68	You declare for the care you give. I am concerned that we are particularly clever in dealing with fraud. So if we know that there are bottles in places, then those signals must get through well to the authorities that are there. This bill is there to give this a further legal basis and to put all those parties in a position to make it work in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u69	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u70	If the patient's interest is harmed because too much is being treated, and the doctor is therefore in violation, I think that is the basis for breaking medical professional secrecy. But if a health care institution has received advice on making the most of the claims, is it effective to address those advisors? Or is it effective to break medical confidentiality? I do not get an answer from the VVD and I regret that, because we could certainly take that a step further. After all, we know that money is now being made, by many consultants, at the highest possible level. And we're gonna give the health insurance companies all the room to access medical records. That's not proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u71	I heard you say that in the first term; it is clear that you think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr De Lange mentioned the study by the Dutch Patient Federation. He also gave the example of one of the panel members. However, there was something else in the investigation that I find rather worrying. I am actually curious about the VVD's view on this, and in particular about the question of what this legislative amendment can mean. More than half of the 6,600 respondents indicated that the safety of his data is at stake for health insurers. In view of what we're going to do here, I think that's something we need to think about. I would like to hear from Mr De Lange how he thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u73	I've seen that, too. However, I also found another statistic that scared me. Healthcare insurers are put at the same level as municipalities, i.e. as parts of our government. It is quite remarkable that people now have the idea that data is not in safe hands with an insurer or a municipality. I believe, but I will come back to that later in my contribution, that much more attention should be paid to this, so that we can take people with us and explain how the professional secrecy procedures and the handling of medical data have been secured in the Netherlands, and in what exceptional cases you may infringe them. I feel like that knowledge is missing right now. So we have a job to do at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u74	I will come back to the comparison with municipalities. It is a good thing that it is compared to that level, not to the confidence in the Hague politics, because I do not think that is very impressive either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u75	I hear you say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u76	Another point is that the same investigation shows that four out of ten panel members do not know that the insurer can do so without permission. Mr De Lange mentioned the importance of good information, but it says quite a lot. It means that we need to think very carefully about how we can ensure that people are aware of what happens to their information at what time, including all guarantees. Mr De Lange says that proper information should be provided on this subject, but can he also indicate how he sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u77	Yes, I can, because I agree with Mrs Volp. I am very much in favour of working on an action plan. All the parties involved, the health insurers together with the patients and the insured, but also the public authorities, must make very concrete agreements on how to increase the level of knowledge. However, they should also consider ways in which insured persons can become much more involved in the declarations that could be made. This attention and alertness will ensure that we can fight fraud even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u78	I would like to add a few words, because that is also one of the points on which we are concerned during the discussion of this amendment of the law. What if there has indeed been access to my file or to Mr De Lange's file? How and when should I know? And what exactly am I supposed to know? Do I need to know, for example, who my data was sent to? How does the VVD feel about that? According to the VVD, what would be the solution to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u79	The solution of the VVD is that the insured person is informed of this after it has taken place. It's good to keep the greats in mind. In the Netherlands, 2,500 cases are on an annual basis. In this context, Mr Klever has made a valuable contribution by tabling an amendment. As far as I am concerned, the House should embrace this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr De Lange continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u81	Fortunately, this bill provides good starting points for further work on this. In addition to a legal basis, this sends out a strong signal that fraud should never pay. Abuse must be detected, tracked down and punished. Therefore, you need to be crystal clear and you need to be bold in the interests of affordable and good healthcare. Who is the best judge of whether the care has been delivered? It's the insured ones themselves, you and me. It is disappointing that insurers make it only to a limited extent possible to view invoices in their own digital "my" environment, precisely because that way you can help track the so-called "non-fluis" accounts. It is equally a missed chance that many caregivers are still very late sending the invoice. The sharpness will go off if you have to check again after more than a year exactly what care has been delivered. For convenience, I do not yet consider the challenge of understanding and understanding an invoice. It would help incredibly if we could succeed in transforming magic formulas into understandable accounts. In this debate I would like to hear from the Minister what concrete steps can be taken to improve this. What opportunities does it see to involve insured persons more in order to detect errors and fraud? Is she willing to consult with the Dutch Healthcare Authority, healthcare providers, patient federations and insurers in order to come up with an action plan to increase the involvement of insured persons? This increases engagement, awareness and alertness and gives more insight into what good care costs. Last year, post-control health insurance companies were able to recover EUR 485 million from healthcare providers. In 227 cases, 11.1 million were found to have been frauded, as has already been mentioned. Those are serious amounts that have returned to the care where the money belongs. It is important that health insurers work together with government parties to counter unjustified or incorrect declarations. Fortunately, the detection of errors and fraud has been given more priority in recent years. However, the Minister also states that the efforts between health insurers vary considerably. Is there an explanation for that? How will the reduction in the number of signals from the Dutch Healthcare Authority in recent years be dealt with? Is it expected that more errors and fraud will be detected in the coming years? If so, do the parties concerned have sufficient capacity to deal with fraud and prosecute? Are the sanctions enough to deter fraud from ever paying off? This legislative proposal provides for the possibility of dealing differently with the provision of patient data. The CDA has already drawn attention to this. Healthcare providers, for example in mental health care, may otherwise provide the performance and diagnosis information provided to insurers. I would like the Minister to clarify what is being thought of and whether, in practice, this cannot hinder the investigation. It is a good thing that this legislative proposal repairs the distinction between natural and restitution policies for physical checks. However, it raises the question of the extent to which fraud can be detected by insurers when the health care provider and the insured person are playing under one roof to bottle things up with each other. Did you think about this? Are there solutions to this? What measures are being taken against this? The aforementioned survey of the Dutch Patient Federation shows that, in the event of a suspicion or suspicion of fraud, a large proportion of respondents can agree that a health insurance company may have access to a part of a medical file. However, it is important that the insured person should at least want to be informed afterwards if this dossier has been looked at. It is therefore possible in practice, but it is important to consider the valuable relationship of trust between the patient and the health care provider and the relationship between the health care provider and the health care provider. This must be appointed and recognised. If we really do not want fraud to pay off, it is necessary in a limited number of cases per year to see part of the medical record after a careful process. In order not to violate medical professional secrecy, it is in the hands of a medical adviser with the health insurance companies covered by the same oath as the health care provider. So that's fine. In order to maintain the support for this ultimate remedy, the VVD is in favour of ensuring that the health insurance provider always informs the insured person afterwards when a part of the medical record is seen during a physical check. I have already given my support to Mr Klever's amendment which further regulates this. Yesterday, in a letter, the Minister presented the state of play of the efforts of health insurers to inform their insured persons of the usefulness, conduct and necessity of physical checks. There is no doubt that there is still a great deal to be done here. I ask the Minister whether this can become part of the action plan advocated earlier by all the parties concerned in order to better inform the insured, i.e. all the people in the Netherlands. I'm closing up. Our health care is the most important thing we have. The money for our good health care brings us together. I am proud that we in the Netherlands can freely choose our health insurance provider and healthcare provider. It can count on good care if you need it, gives a sense of safety. Care money is meant for good care and therefore fraud should never pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the amendment of the Health Organisations Act to improve monitoring, detection, compliance and enforcement. That sounds promising. We have known for years that for billions of euros a mistake is declared in healthcare, often consciously. Healthcare providers are not at all impressed by the supervision, detection, compliance and enforcement practices of the government, because the probability is low and the penalty is also low. E is simply under-controlled and not strict enough. The PVV finds this unacceptable. If someone fills their pockets by making a mistake and he can just get away with it, then we must not leave it at that. We must use all the instruments to bring back these billions of fraud. Last week, however, we were able to read that the investigation into malpractice with declarations at the VUmc was stalled. The Tax Intelligence and Investigation Service has been trying to investigate sensitive data for a year and a half. This is not possible because it involves patient data and is subject to medical professional secrecy. First of all, I'm gonna ask if the patients are gonna be involved in the search. Has they been asked to assist in the investigation of fraud and whether their medical records can be used for this purpose? That is the problem: medical data must not be accessed without the consent of the patient. Then I look at the schedule of the material control steps of Health Insurance companies Netherlands and I don't see the patient in the picture anywhere. At no stage is the patient asked to make data available. I don't understand. I think patients are quite willing to cooperate in detecting fraud, not all of them, but most of them are. The NPCF survey shows that over 60% believe that the health insurance provider should contact the patient before requesting the file. This percentage will certainly increase if we realise that there may have been too much own risk paid or that fraud will increase the premium every year by billions. In my view, therefore, between steps 7 and 8 in the above schedule should be given an opportunity to provide the patient with missing information. I understand that healthcare insurers in the Netherlands are not in favour of this. Among other things, it would delay the investigation; as if there were no delays in the VUmc investigation, for example. I'd like a response from the Minister. I would like to stress that I am not asking to inform the patient in advance, but to ask him to cooperate in advance. There is a fundamental difference. From getting the patient involved in advance, I come to inform him afterwards. Informing the patient afterwards about access to his file because of possible fraud is a condition that my group believes should not be missing from the legislative proposal. We cannot leave that to the arbitrariness of health insurers; we simply have to make this compulsory. I have therefore tabled an amendment to this effect and have now understood that the Minister is in favour of this. I hope that the House will also support this amendment and thank the VVD for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mrs Klever is right to make a point. We should not leave it to the care insurers to inform patients. Has her group considered possible sanctions if this does not happen? We can capture it, but what do we do when it doesn't happen? We both probably know from personal experience how long it takes before you get a look at a claim that might have been made a year ago. If that is already very complicated, reporting within three months will also become complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u84	Now, I think it's 2,500 visits a year. That's to be seen. That is quite different from the 1 billion in declarations, of which a very large part is too late. So I think the problem that Mrs Volp sees is not that big. Now it's non-binding; health insurance companies can do it. One's doing it, too. I think it is important that we anchor this in the law and that all health insurance companies are obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u85	I imagine we need to think about the cases where it doesn't happen. There's another downside, a possible side effect. If you see how scared patients are about the safety of their data with the health insurance company, it can lead to health insurance companies not looking anymore. Their controlling task, and the steps we put in place with this law, will no longer take them on their own. Does the PVV see that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u86	I'm not sure I understand the question. Is Mrs Volp saying that health insurance companies are no longer going to look into files when they are obliged to inform patients that these files are being looked into in the context of a fraud investigation? So I don't know if I understood the question correctly, but I don't think so. It is a core task of health insurance companies to check claims. This is a step in the right direction, but I think the Chamber and the Minister should keep the health insurers behind their pants to make sure they check all the declarations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u87	I think there is such a risk. The NZa monitor also indicates that there have been fewer reports because the requirements have been tightened by the NZa. There is therefore a risk of a retreating movement of health insurers. We can also ask the Minister for her views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u88	I do not see that danger, but I am indeed looking forward to the Minister's response. It is important that health insurers realise that their core task is to check declarations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u89	I know Mrs Klever from other debates as being rather straightforward and usually not very interested in what the government claims about laws. Now she has tabled an amendment to let the patient know 30 days after it has happened that his data has been consulted. Isn't that a rather compromise proposal from the PVV? I'm actually surprised at that. Why not just choose to give that information in advance? Why not inform the patient in advance when his file has been used?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u90	That's a very good question. If you inform a patient in advance, you run the risk of harming the investigation, that a healthcare provider will be told that there is an investigation into certain claims. You want to avoid that, of course. You want to prevent such a healthcare provider from destroying administration or whatever. I think it's important that the patient knows, but in this case it's best to inform afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mrs Klever is now very close to it from the chance that the fight against fraud will be hampered by prior information. That might be true, but honestly, I think that's not so bad. Let us look at it from the other side: what happens if you inform someone afterwards that their file has been used wrongly or far too wide or by far too many bodies? Then the suffering is already suffered, then it is too late. So the PVV agrees with that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u92	Let me be very clear. As far as we are concerned, it is also fine if the patient is informed in advance, but there are some risks. In any case, we think it is important that the patient is informed afterwards that there may have been fraud and that his file is therefore looked at. I believe that this is also a preventive effect. I think it's an incentive for a healthcare provider not to cheat, because he knows what happens when his patients find out. Then he's gonna be in a less good light. I therefore believe that my amendment is a preventive one. I therefore hope for the support of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u93	For the sake of clarity: informing afterwards is better than not informing. In that sense, I am looking at your amendment with a small amount of joy. I will discuss it very openly in the group. If the PVV also wants to agree to pre-inform Mrs Klever just now, then it is of course no longer necessary to inform afterwards. I hope that Mrs Klever's amendment to inform you afterwards will not block the possibility of informing the House in advance. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to inform me twice. In advance is better than afterwards and afterwards is only necessary if it does not succeed in advance. Does Mrs. Klever agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u94	I absolutely agree with Mr Verhoeven. In fact, I said in my speech that we want the patient to be involved in advance, that the patient should be asked in advance to look into his file. Of course, that would be the most beautiful road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u95	In hindsight, the suffering was done. Mrs Klever has explained why she prefers to inform in advance. We give the health insurance companies room to look into medical data with or without a solid or less solid step-by-step plan. Is Mrs Klever satisfied with the attitude of health insurers at the moment when it comes to care fraud or checking up-coding, which should not be called fraud? Does she think that the health insurance companies are doing enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u96	First of all, we are not giving health insurers the opportunity to look into dossiers. Mrs Leijten says that all the time, but there is a whole step-by-step plan. It is only in step 9 that a medical adviser to a health insurance company is allowed to look in a file. Why a medical consultant? Because it's kept under medical confidentiality. So it is not the case that health insurers are allowed to look at all the files at once. It is really very carefully decorated, with a lot of guarantees. This raises the question of whether I am satisfied with the efforts made by health insurers to detect fraud. No, that could be much better. There's a lot more to check out there. This law is a step in the direction, this law gives the health insurers a little more opportunity to detect actual fraud, but it is far from enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u97	Okay, so you're giving the health insurance company or the medical advisor to the health insurance company, but it's still in the service of the health insurance company, possibilities, while you're saying they're not doing enough right now. I just reported it: 12.5 million per fraud tracker from an insurance company a year. This concerns all the declaration rules. That's crazy, of course. At the same time, there are only 65 reports from health insurers about cases that they do not rely on those 1 billion declaration rules. Is it in proportion, I ask Mrs Klever, to say now: they can go all the way, they can see everything, even if it is a medical consultant and even if it happens after nine steps? There is no prior information, while at the moment they just don't give at home when it comes to tracking. Shouldn't we make sure that we've arranged it properly before we say: okay, we're also stretching out the possibilities to look into all medical records?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u98	I think we both should. Yes, health insurers need to run faster and yes, health insurers need to check more claims, but then we need to give them the opportunity to do so, albeit in a careful way. I would like to distance myself from the point made by Mrs Leijten that the health insurers look into the dossiers. I believe that the Minister has come up with a very well-balanced and careful legislative proposal which allows a medical adviser to look into a dossier in step nine of the entire control plan. That medical adviser simply has professional secrecy and may then pass on only anonymised data to the health insurance provider. I think this is a very good step towards a better fight against fraud, and I really do not understand why the SP is so opposed to it! I remember the debate on fraud very well. Then the SP was standing here shouting that much more had to be done. Now the Minister takes a step in the right direction and there is a lot of resistance coming from the SP. However, I imagine that the SP would like the healthcare premium to remain low and that the health insurance companies would be able to detect all fraud for that purpose. Even if it is only a dime: all fraud must be detected and the premium must be able to be reduced in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u99	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u100	We already know that the PVV has no message at all about privacy and the sensitivity it gives if medical professional secrecy is not guaranteed. We already know that we're considering it. I said: take on the consultants who fill their pockets by dealing with maximum declarations; make sure that the investigating authorities are ready when the insurer says: it is no good, they are left behind. Make sure the health insurance companies themselves do much more! This law does not provide any guarantee for this, but it does guarantee that our medical data will be in the hands of the health insurance companies, with all the risks involved. To be honest, I find it remarkable that the PVV has left everything you can do, now, without broadening the law, and thinks this is a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u101	I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that we need to tackle the consultants. I also asked Parliament questions about this. Maybe Mrs. Leijten missed it. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that we need to tackle this fraud much harder, that we need to extend the investigation bodies and intensify the investigation. I said all that in the fraud debate. However, it starts with the health insurance companies checking the accounts and I don't understand why the SP thinks it's normal that health insurance companies pay blindly without checking whether the care has been delivered at all. Isn't that what the fight against fraud starts with? For this purpose, I think this law is a step in the right direction. And once again, no medical confidentiality is thrown in here. It's a very careful step-by-step plan. It is a medical consultant who looks into the file and not the health insurance company, and that medical consultant is kept under professional secrecy, so there is no professional secrecy at all. Medical confidentiality is important for the patient's access to care and privacy, the PVV believes. What is discussed between doctor and patient remains basically secret, but professional secrecy should not be a cover for fraudsters. What worries me is that inspection will take place, and I quote: 'under the responsibility of a medical adviser'. The PVV wants to prevent a random intern from gaining access to medical data at a health insurance company and getting away with a complete file via the poorly secured LSP. I would therefore like the Minister's guarantee that supervision will always be carried out by a medical adviser who is covered by professional secrecy. Can the Minister take care of that? As has been said, the PVV Group is in favour of a tougher approach to fraud in healthcare. This bill is a small step in the right direction. The detection of fraud billions is our priority. We need to increase our chances of getting caught, we need to raise our fines and we need to take the fraud approach as a deterrent. Fraud must never pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. The key question when making laws should be: what problem are we going to solve with this law? In addition, the question is: how do we avoid creating new problems? At the heart of this change of law is a sliding scale of incorrect declarations of care money, errors, perverse incentives, because-it-can-be-be-behaviour and genuine fraud. The first question you have to ask in case of errors is: why is the system too complicated? We'll have to do something about that. Because it's about the perverse stimuli, the stretching of what's neat, the scale turning your way. Fraud, the deliberate undermining of our solidarity-based care system and abuse of it, must be combated. The question is just how; how do we ensure in legislation that proportionality and subsidiarity are guaranteed? Or to say it in doctor's language: what side effects do you accept with a treatment? The first question is: have you made the correct diagnosis based on the symptoms? If you're assuming that diagnosis, what is the appropriate treatment? I now have a number of questions about this in the course of the debate. In the current legislation, there is an arsenal of instruments for detecting fraud. There is also an arsenal of players in the care field. Do they do all that they have to do and do all that they can do? Do they work well together? You have to ask those questions before you commit yourself to a very heavy instrument, namely breaking professional secrecy: legally anchoring access to the healthcare file. That is an ultimatum remedium, and that too has been said earlier today. Let me point out, like all the parties here, that the PvdA shares the Minister's ambition to tackle care fraud and to tackle those who deliberately undermine the solidarity of our healthcare system. We have to be sensible and economical with care money, but privacy is a sacred good. We must therefore be sure that the aim, preventing and punishing fraud, cannot be achieved in a less radical way and we must be sure that if we proceed with access to the medical file, that really is the ultimate remedium and that there has been a testable step-by-step plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u103	We may differ as to whether or not you should eventually go over that bridge with a change of safeguards and roadmaps and regulate it legally. I don't think the Labour Party should cross that bridge. You ask a lot of questions to the Minister; let us wait for the answers. I have another question for the Labour Party. Before the summer, only after almost a whole year of questions were answered by this Chamber about this legal treatment. The Minister has really taken ample time to do so. Then the law came and the Labour Party supported the groups of the VVD and the PVV in seeking to deal with the bill as soon as possible. Can the Labour Party state why it considers it so priority to do so at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u104	There is an easy and more complicated answer to that. The complicated answer is: I did not do that at the time, but I can imagine everything that is necessary to deal with fraud and to anchor it on a legal basis. I think Mrs Bruin Slot has said a few words about it. The legal anchoring also gives us more control possibilities. I think it is important, provided that the Minister is clearly accompanied by an explanation of how we do this carefully and responsibly, to continue this legal anchoring in the reasonably short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u105	I was already surprised because in addition to that discussion about the care fraud and the alleged necessity, health insurers can look into those medical records, even if it is after an eternal step-by-step plan and even if it is by a medical consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u106	Those are nuances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u107	Yeah, but that step-by-step plan makes the Dutch Data Protection Authority chop, but okay. With regard to medical professional secrecy, there is another course on which we are discussing very tragic situations; I would like to mention Bart from you. Can we at the time that this should be in the interest of society look at medical records of someone, in the interest of the police, public order and so on? The Minister has taken a step in that debate: I consider medical professional secrecy to be very important, I am going to investigate whether in those situations where there may be a danger to public order another independent doctor can look into that file and give advice on it, that is what she is going to find out. I think the whole Chamber has said: very well, Minister, go find out. Well, then it's kind of crazy that we shouldn't wait for that route with this law. If that is a good way, if an independent doctor looks at it and indicates that it is appropriate to break medical confidentiality...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u108	The question!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u109	Then that could also apply to this law, to fraud detection, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u110	I believe this calls for a different way of looking at a medical file. If you're gonna ask another doctor to look into that, you're still gonna have to apply those due diligence requirements that we want in there right now. Before looking into the medical records, it won't matter if a medical consultant or another doctor does. What does matter, however, is that this does not happen until all the other possibilities for dealing with possible fraud have been fully exploited. I have questions about that. I don't think another doctor is a good solution. Mrs Leijten is right to talk about horrible things. Medical confidentiality also allows a right to be changed. I'm dealing with medical confidentiality and with my colleagues. There are situations in which you can say: we are very concerned about this; at that time this can be done. You need to be careful now that you're comparing apples and pears. I understand your concerns once again, which we share about how to deal with something that is incredibly important, namely medical professional secrecy. Now you're asking how you should do that. I don't think that's the issue right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u111	The interruptions must be really short, so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u112	As a result of the right to change and the discussion that is taking place, the Minister says: I am going to go along the route with an independent doctor who is watching and advising on this. Then it's about public order. You should definitely take that route in case of fraud. However, that is now being cut off, because this law must be rushed through the Chamber quickly, quickly and quickly, while a careful route is being followed as a result of the debate on the right to change. I was curious to see why the Labour Party is on these two different routes, but apparently you do not have an answer to that. So it's fine if the health insurance company looks into a medical file when it comes to money. But when it comes to security and the right to change, we have to go further and further. I think that's a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u113	It's a little short-sighted to say I don't have an answer to that. I have an answer that you don't like. My answer is that you compare apples and pears. My answer is that if, in the extreme, we need a medical record, when all the other options for detecting fraud are exhausted, it doesn't matter if you involve another doctor. It must be done by a doctor, a medical adviser, with guarantees. It is then necessary to assess whether this has been appropriate and, if not, to take action. My answer will not be the answer you want to hear, but I think it is indeed an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mrs. Volp says she has to deal with medical confidentiality herself. She's actually saying it's not that bad. She has spoken about guarantees and other things, but she actually says that this does not put any pressure on medical professional secrecy. That was pretty much what she said, and that's why I'm gonna ask her about the wife. Does Mrs Volp think that this law creates a movement that puts pressure on medical professional secrecy? In other words: is this law in any way contrary to medical professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u115	I distance myself from the impression I would have given Mr Verhoeven that I find medical professional secrecy something easy or that I want to give it away. Anything but! My contribution today will therefore mean that this is a very important thing. Again, I know how important that is. But if we are dealing with fraud, for example by colleagues of mine who do not use their medical professional secrecy and their medical oath properly to provide good care, but for example to enrich themselves, then we have no way of making that clear with the current steps, which are already laid down in the ministerial regulation, and of punishing people who abuse our solidarity-based care system. I therefore believe that we should deal with this very carefully. That will also be the focus of my input. That must also be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u116	I asked a short question and I'll ask an even shorter one. I will listen carefully to Mrs Volp's contribution. I have heard that she has used words such as 'carefulness' and 'guarantees', but my question is the following, and I think that is the fundamental question in this debate. Is this law creating a movement that puts pressure on medical professional secrecy because of the opportunities offered to health insurers? Does Mrs Volp think that this is the case, or does Mrs Volp think that this is absolutely not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u117	The shortest answer I can give is that if the Minister can explain properly how that is well anchored in this law, I do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u118	So Mrs Volp now claims that this law does not really put pressure on medical professional secrecy through this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u119	Unless all the guarantees in this law are really good. I'll ask the Minister about that. What we need is clarity about the steps to be taken. This has already been discussed and concerns have been expressed by various parties. It is therefore really up to the Minister to explain how she sees these steps now, what they are going to mean in concrete terms, how she intends to see them enshrined in legislation and what steps need to be taken before a dossier can be accessed in order to prove fraud. What do the players do now and what could they do? In the report Gathering Point on Healthcare Fraud, which Mrs Leijten van de SP also referred to, it is stated that the number of signs of care fraud has decreased significantly. This decline is largely due to the fact that fewer signals from consumers and healthcare providers met the stricter requirements to be introduced into the system. The monitor shows that the largest group of detectors are patients or close relatives. The share of health insurers and health offices increased, but also whistleblowers and healthcare providers are sending out some more signals. This is an important point. Can the Minister explain in a response how she interprets these figures? How does she see this? The NZa's demands are important, but they should not lead to a drop in the number of signals; this should only be done because there is less fraud. I would very much like a response to this. Yesterday, the Patient Federation of the Netherlands conducted a study on this subject. The Minister gave her interpretation of this in a letter. However, more than half of those questioned indicate that they believe that their data are not safe with a health insurance provider and a large part of them have no knowledge of the current regime at all. That's what worries me. The Minister must therefore also ensure that this law does not lead to any further deterioration in patients' sense of safety regarding their medical records. I would also like a comprehensive response to this. I want the players who now get a position in the law and the opportunities they get to tackle fraud, walk by and ask a number of questions per player. First of all, the insurers. Are the insurers and the health offices now taking up their role? In the explanatory memorandum, I read that the detection of fraud and unlawful declarations costs more than it costs, because it is often complicated, extensive and costly to carry out physical checks and fraud investigations and because the amount they save through fraud investigations does not automatically return to them. The question then is, of course, to what extent this bill offers a solution. Is this situation not the same, since this law does not necessarily reduce the time and money spent on research? How do these statements by health insurers relate to the fact that they deal with public premium money? They must deal with this effectively. They are supposed to carry out that task. Tackling fraud is part of their task within the current healthcare system. They may not deserve that job directly, but frankly I do not care. It is a matter of essential trust in our healthcare system. What possibilities does the Minister have to point out to health insurers this part of their current legally anchored task? What added value does it once again see in what it intends to do with this bill? I also read in the explanatory statement that there is another explanation from insurers: their effort is mop-up with the crane open, because the relevant legislation and regulations are far too broad, unclear and too complex, which makes it difficult for them to prove that something is unlawful, ineffective, abuse or fraud. That piece needs to be solved. I don't see that directly in this law amendment. Does this change of law therefore provide a solution to that problem and, if so, which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mrs Volp has a striking description of the need for health insurers to detect fraud, but at the moment they are not doing enough, and where they are doing so, it is very complicated because of the complicated declaration system. What exactly is the problem with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mrs Leijten has heard me ask these questions to the Minister. I need that answer. I do understand the intention of this change of law. It is aimed at situations where we have exhausted all the resources, but we do want to know whether there is fraud and we cannot do it in any other way. That means looking at the current barriers and the way in which health insurers now have to do what they can already do. I understand that intention, but Mrs Leijten has heard me very well; I really want more information from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u122	The health insurance companies must detect fraud, but they do not do enough. If they do it, it's hard to prove it. We know that there is also an army of care consultants out there who advise on how to make a maximum declaration. When I hear this list, why do we have to deal with this bill so quickly? Mrs Volp just said that that was logical, but I get the impression that the Labour Party wants to support the Minister in pretending that she is doing a lot against care fraud, while this operation is not necessary at all at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u123	That is really the last impression I would like to give. But I want us to anchor things very well. This can be better done in legislation than in a ministerial arrangement. Then we in the Chamber can exercise more influence. Mrs Bruins Slot has spoken wisely about this. We need to establish how to deal with fraud situations in which we really want to go ahead and where we cannot do so in any other way. The conditions must therefore be in order. I want us to do this carefully. It's definitely not about a quickie. Another player is the Taskforce Integrity Healthcare Sector. What are the exact results of that task force? What's going on now? Where is the task force's priority and why? What's in it for you? Why, for example, is the CAK not in the task force? Then I come to the last player: the NZa. The explanatory memorandum states that supervision by the Healthcare Authority is being stepped up. This is an essential point, including for us, in order to properly assess the added value of this legislative proposal. Can the Minister comment on the role of the NZa? What powers are to be attached to this legally defined intensification? What does this mean for the role of the NZa? How will these improvements or will this step-up be achieved in practice with this legislative amendment? The explanatory memorandum states that it is expressly not intended that the Supervisory Authority should assume the responsibilities of the field parties in the context of supervision. That is also one of my concerns: do the field parties take responsibility? Can they, too, as it turns out to be incredibly complicated with the current legislation and regulations in order to be able to deal effectively with them? So I would very much like to explain the role of the NZa and its method of scrutiny in particular. How can it monitor health insurers for carrying out fraud checks and for correctly applying the rules to access medical data? We have already heard several options regarding access to files. I would like to hear from the Minister, for example, how she sees control by the NZa in the way in which health insurers do so. In addition to all the parties mentioned separately, cooperation in this area is the most important. Can the Minister answer that? How does cooperation now work and does it consider that sufficient? Is there a vision, is the chain organized and is there a plan of action? That plan of action should focus on four things: preventing, detecting, removing the incentive and tackling it. Are the roles now clear and the tasks defined on outcome? That's what I'm wondering, because without purpose, you'll never get an optimal result. I will make no mistake about when and how medical data should be handled. Who does what when? For the interpretation of the law, it is important for the Minister to indicate how the steps to be taken, before a health insurer can look into the file, look concrete, all the more so because we have already been criticised by the parties. That does not seem to be clear. The interpretation of the law is one of the most important conditions for a law. What is the legal anchoring of the way the NZa tests? And caregivers are complying with their legal duties? Again, this is a legal task already laid down in the various laws which govern the task of health insurers and health offices. The NZa must check on two points. Does the health insurance company actually do that and does it the right way? When checks have been made in a careless manner, is there a possibility of sanctions? What does it mean if a health insurance company didn't actually look in a medical file at the right time? What are the penalties for this? It is also an important point for my party to be able to assess whether there is an incentive for health insurers to do so with all due safeguards. A good balance between working and updating is what this law should offer. As far as my party is concerned, the Minister is now inclined to explain what this balance is like in the law and also to explain how she sees it in practice. There is a difference between "mistakes because it can" behaviour and fraud. At the heart of this law is the possibility of tackling the latter. The Organisation of Health Organisations Act should set out how to deal with signs, suspicions and the final evidence collection in cases of fraud, with the possibility of accessing the medical file as a last and last step. In doing so, a clear and verifiable step-by-step plan must ensure that access to the medical file is properly regulated, and that a review is carried out in the cases where this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. As the last speaker, you have the advantage that you have been able to follow the debate a little bit and see the broad lines. One line that I have noticed is that the advocates of this bill greatly increase the fraud that needs to be combated. I will explain in a moment why I think that the extent of the fraud might not be too great. The proponents of this bill drop the word "fraud" dozens of times in their contributions. They then pretend that the privacy damage, the infringement of the patient's personal data, is very minor. In other words, the problem is huge and the solution we have devised with this proposal has almost no negative consequences. That is the impression that a number of spokesmen who are in favour of this bill want to create here. I don't think this is a good idea. My group really believes that professional secrecy is being put under pressure by this law. On behalf of my group, of course, I would also point out that every euro that is being cheated in the care sector is one too many. Everyone thinks so, and so does D66. Any doctor who intentionally makes an unnecessary declaration and any insured person who tries to withdraw money from the system together with a healthcare provider must be stopped. We all agree on this, but the bill we are discussing today is an extension of the obligation for healthcare providers to make personal data of insured persons available to health insurance companies. The bill also provides for the Dutch Health Authority to be able to share personal data with more bodies in the context of the fight against fraud. This combined approach should combat fraud in health care. Of course, it is very good that this minister and this cabinet want to tackle fraud, but the question is, of course, whether this bill is proportionate, effective and careful. My group is wondering that out loud. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. First of all, I ask the Minister whether it is true that she based this bill on figures from the 2013 NZa, which showed that EUR 6 billion to EUR 7 billion was wasted each year on irregularities. How many percent of those cases were frauds at the time? I also ask the Minister whether she agrees with the figures of Health Insurance companies in the Netherlands, which indicate that only 0.01% of care money actually involved fraud. I'd like to get a response from the Minister to those figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr Verhoeven reduced the level of fraud and started to increase the scope for looking at medical records. The interesting thing is that it's been possible to access medical records for a long time now. That is settled by ministerial regulation. This can already be done with natural policies. The bill now ensures that this can also be done in the case of refund policies. Where has D66 been all these years to tackle this apparently major problem for D66 and to come up with proposals not to allow this to be possible? After all, this can be done today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u126	We have a law here now. That law makes it legally possible to actually do something. That's the law we're discussing right now. D66 is critical of that law and the VVD is fine with that law. The VVD can now take the measure of where I or my group have been in recent years, but we are critical of developments that damage or put pressure on medical professional secrecy. In this case, this is done by law. We are talking about this now and we are critical of it. I hope that the VVD is also critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u127	So I can conclude that D66 only wants to change something if this government submits a law to the Chamber and that D66 only then has an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u128	No, that's not a good conclusion. The conclusion is that D66 is currently looking critically at this law and that the VVD is pretending to be a huge fraud in the care sector and as if it justifies the fact that we now have legislation that health insurers can obtain medical data from patients. That's what we're talking about right now. If the VVD is so critical of that and if she thinks that D66 has done too little to prevent that, we must now move together. Now there's a law and now we can stop this. So my question to Mr De Lange is whether I can find him by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u129	Finally, Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u130	I will surprise Mr Verhoeven: I have even gone along with the thinking of D66. What did I read in D66's publications? That D66 considers that tackling fraud in the Netherlands is such a big problem that D66 believes that there should be a national fraud commissioner. There are billions of dollars worth of fraud in the Netherlands. In doing so, D66 explicitly mentions the approach to care fraud. Mr Verhoeven, where are you going with your plans if that is what you are proposing and if that is what you are putting into this debate today? Does D66 take seriously the claim that fraud must be tackled in this country or does D66 simply not give up at home because there are by chance a number of objections or bears on the road, while it is properly regulated in this law, with all kinds of conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u131	I would not call it a 'bear on the road', as Mr De Lange is now doing, as if it were just an act, and then we can just move on. It is a fundamental part of our health care and of the protection of patients in this country. Mr De Lange is right in saying that a fraud commissioner is a much better idea than this bill. If he wants to support me in that, perhaps we can form a coalition in which we appoint a fraud commissioner, so that the billions of fraud in the health sector that Mr De Lange is talking about are not billions of fraud, but billions of irregularities, of which only a very small part is fraud, but by the way we are dealing with it. I'm fine with that. Again, everyone in this Chamber, including D66, is fine with tackling fraud. But if you say that dealing with fraud is fine and then comes up with a measure that is very bad for the position of patients and for the professional secrecy of doctors, then I think you can easily overcome a number of objections. I do not think that it is my role in this debate to get over those objections very easily, especially since some other parties are doing so relatively easily, as the CDA and the PVV Group are doing so. Of course the VVD does, but well, he has probably already thought about these proposals. So I understand why Mr De Lange is acting like this. I was just asking the Minister about the 0.01% and the share of fraud. That would be 11.1 million. I'm not saying 11.1 million is little, but it's a whole different story than you're talking about billions all the time. There are billions of irregularities, but according to these figures there would be no billions of fraud. I'd like to get a reaction to that. A million-dollar fraud is also too much, I'm sure. That's definitely what D66 thinks; don't worry about it. However, there is also something else going on. The figures of health insurance companies in the Netherlands would question the proportionality of the proposed law and the size of the problem; I have just said something about that. So I'd like to get a response from the Minister. It is really about the proportionality of this bill: is it necessary to achieve this goal by such a heavy means? The Minister states that this bill is primarily aimed at healthcare providers, health insurance companies and public authorities, but, as other colleagues have already said, this bill naturally affects the insured. Their information is checked in the context of the fight against fraud, without their being aware of it at the time. That is a difficult point for my group. I admit that this proposal may sound quite reliable. That's what the other spokesmen always stress. There are terms such as "careful" and "guarantees" all the time. The bill states: "The health insurance company may not use the data in any other way or for other purposes." That's one of the things they keep saying. Another point, and I quote again, is that'medical confidentiality is important and necessary to ensure that patients feel free to provide the most personal information'. Those are the phrases that should increase confidence in this bill, but my group is particularly concerned about the practice. How's it going in real life the moment we do this? Of course, we're not the only ones. According to the Privacy Barometer, in practice, the viewing of data is often neglected. That is absolutely a fact. The Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Council of State say that access to data must be used proportionally, especially when private health data is at stake. This type of measure not only leads to a discussion of how certain information is handled by citizens. That happens, for example, when you live. When renting it is also often said: we want to first carry out all kinds of checks on someone to determine if he is actually a tenant of a property before we give him rent allowance. Also when collecting all kinds of telephone data in the context of security and counter-terrorism, it is very often found that data are perceived by many more parties, are stored for much longer than necessary and are used much wider than they were originally intended to be. So all that kind of proportionality issue is crucial. So I ask the Minister to what extent it is really regulated that the circle of people who can access it is very small, that the data are destroyed in a timely and proper way and that data are not increasingly and increasingly available to other organisations and are gradually becoming used for other purposes. D66 asks, in short, what safeguards are in the new legislation to prevent data from being looked at. The Minister refers to the Roadmap, which should only be considered as a last resort in dossiers. But with such a roadmap you can of course skip a step, pretend to have taken a step or go through a certain step very quickly. This is also happening in practice. It's really not unimaginable. We just need to think this through. The practice is different from the letters written on paper in the law. That is what my group's concern is for. Here too, I would like to hear how it is ensured, for example, that health data is kept no longer than is strictly necessary. Who will see to that, what guarantees are there and how do we avoid sloppyness among all the authorities that can access the data? Good care stands or falls with the confidentiality between the doctor and the patient. The patient must be sure that what he or she tells the doctor is really covered by medical confidentiality. I have just said in my interruption to Mrs Volp that I think that this law is a movement at the expense of medical professional secrecy. An insured person must be able to assume that no one is looking in his file because there may be an investigation into fraud, without him or her being aware of it. In reply to Mr De Lange, who just tried to blame me for not making alternative proposals, I say the following. Last year, D66 called for patients to be informed in advance of access to files. Mr De Lange knows that very well. That was last year. So, Mr De Lange, D66 has been actively working for some time to take the edge off these proposals. Then the Minister didn't have an ear for that. Yesterday, in her letter to the Chamber, she stated once again that there were serious objections in informing the insured person in advance. Now I understand those objections if it is thought that the insured person will be working with the healthcare provider to make fraud possible. Although, if you look closely at the roadmap, you may wonder if that is actually a danger. Can't the Minister look again for a real solution? Can the Minister not make another serious effort to inform insured persons in advance? In fact, informing patients in advance of the fact that their dossier is being used gives the patient a completely different position than when it happens afterwards, on day 29, when the evil has already been done. I think that is a fundamental difference. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u132	Are you almost done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u133	I'm about halfway there. I'm just getting warmed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u134	I do hear that, but I shall first give the floor to Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mr Verhoeven began his speech with a point of principle. As far as D66 is concerned, the dossier should not be looked at, because there are doubts about proportionality. But then he says that they need to be informed in advance. May I conclude from this that under good conditions and with good guarantees according to D66, it should be possible to look at some of the medical records needed for the examination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u136	No. D66 is a pragmatic party that tries to get the best out of its contribution to the House of Representatives. For example, D66 is not in favour of provinces and of the Provincial States. You could say: if you think that's a principle, you shouldn't sit in the Provincial States. But that would be weird. So what does D66 do? We are trying, through national politics, to abolish the Provincial States, but we are now going to sit in the Provincial States to ensure that this body is as good as possible. The same applies to this point. There is a clear majority of all kinds of parties in the Chamber who feel that it is not that bad and that we should simply continue with this. After all, I can count. But let us be honest: I would love it if I could think of another way to tackle this problem and get a majority for it. After all, we agree on the problem, but not on the solution. I note that there is a majority in favour of the solution which the Minister and this cabinet are thinking of, but I am trying to remove the sharp, nasty, nasty, dirty and hard edges. This is a step-by-step approach. I don't think it's a good law. I do not think it is a good proposal, but if we can arrange a number of things that will get the worst out of it, it is better than nothing. If everyone votes in favour and I'm against it, it's 100% bad, while I might be able to make sure that it's only 60% or 70% bad. I think we all do that in this house sometimes; that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u137	I'm trying to get this through to me. In any case, it is a fine proof of the ever-famous pragmatism of D66. However, I'm from the school that if you really don't agree with something, you come up with alternatives. If it's such a basically wrong point for yourself, you have to think how else you could do it. We both agree that fraud must be combated in this country, but can Mr Verhoeven also indicate how D66 believes that this should be done differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u138	For example, the documents say that insurers themselves are doing far too little to tackle fraud. It also says that a lot of data that should be needed by this route does not lead at all to an easy approach to fraud. If the use of insurers is inadequate, and I think the Minister himself wrote it, why the hell are we giving that party more information? I think that's a very strange way of thinking. We find and write that the party that should help to tackle fraud is inadequate. So what do we do now? We're going to give more information to the party that's failing. I think that's weird. My alternative is not to do that. Let's bet on something else. Let us, from the government and from other organisations, ensure that insurers are forced or given more opportunities to deal with fraud through existing sources of information. There are opportunities for that, as experts say. There really are alternatives, but you have to want to see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u139	That is true, but from what Mr Verhoeven says, I draw the conclusion that at least he has not yet found them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u140	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u141	The conclusion is that it is already possible at the moment. We are now setting up a legal basis for something that is already happening under these safeguards. It's just a broader group now. Mr Verhoeven deviates from that. But if he really considers the detection of fraud to be important, he must also take the step to ensure that it is properly laid down in the law, because I believe that his party has always had the need to regulate things properly in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u142	Absolutely. I'm not saying it's bad that there's gonna be a law. I am merely saying that the law currently before us has a content on which my group is very critical on a number of points, which I have just mentioned. I have voiced this criticism and I will certainly see if I can find other alternatives within that law with one or two amendments. We are already working on this. If the VVD says that D66 could have done better, I suggest that Mr De Lange joins D66 first, so that he can really think about the course of our party. Mr Van de Lange is a VVD member and that means that he can think on behalf of the VVD that he is okay with dealing with medical professional secrecy in this country. D66 is less easy to accept and is looking for solutions to deal with fraud in healthcare, without having to intervene enormously in the patient's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u143	I think D66 makes some remarkable statements. First of all, she says it's not as bad as the fraud. After that, Mr Verhoeven stated that he was opposed in principle to the violation of medical professional secrecy. By the way, I think we can find each other a long way. Then he says: if we are the only ones, we should make sure that the law is only 60% or 70% bad. What's 60% or 70% bad? What's the motivation to get back in the game after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u144	I'm not saying I'm in on anything. We're having a debate. We do not vote until next week or the following week and D66 can always decide to vote against. Indeed, I could not have been here to say that it is a bad law and that D66 votes against. But at the end I find voting against too easy. We're having a debate right now. We've made a written contribution twice, we have questions and we're looking at things. My main feeling with this law is that he joins a movement that makes this cabinet in many ways: there is a problem, so let's start collecting more citizens' data because then the problem is solved. Apart from all privacy aspects of this, it is constantly shown that collecting more and more data to address problems is not effective in many cases. In addition, I think collecting a lot of data results in very high data stacks. As a result, the data of more and more people can be accessed by more and more groups. This provides more and more insight into the personal environment and privacy of people. I'm not in favour of that. Those are our two main lines. Then there is a law on which we can ask questions and for which we can make proposals. Then I think it is a good thing that as a member of a constructive, critical party I think about ways in which it could at least be a little less bad. For example, prior information would be a very big step which substantially strengthens the patient's position. Don't consider that step because I think the whole bill sucks is not the way I run politics. I think I should point out that this bill has, in my opinion, curious aspects. I'd rather not see it that way at all. But informing the patient in advance and putting in much better safeguards, such as an independent doctor instead of a medical advisor, are improvements as far as I am concerned. Doesn't it make sense for D66 to go for that? Mrs Volp should want that, too. After all, she said that professional secrecy should not be affected in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u145	I can't really figure out exactly what the D66 setting is. Apparently, she has a certain feeling that she doesn't see anything in it. I always think that's a weakness offer. Either you know why you find something, and you've got it all figured out, or you don't know, and you say you don't have an opinion on it yet. But don't talk about feeling. What do you need? What does the Minister have to say to you in her reply to ensure that your "feeling" goes in the right direction enough to say: then we can do something with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u146	First of all, I find it disappointing to note that Mrs Volp apparently has difficulty with emotional people, with feelings in politics or with people who have the feeling or the intuition that something might go in the wrong direction. I'm a pretty rational person. I have listed a number of facts on the extent of the fraud, the amounts and the percentages. I have mentioned facts about the doubts I have and I have cited other dossiers which show that much more data does not lead to a solution. That is much more than just a feeling, but I do have a feeling about this as well. A sense of non-flavor, I'd almost say to Mrs Volp as a doctor. This law may have a high non-fluis content. That is why I think it is my responsibility to take the edge off and I have put forward a number of concrete proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u147	Again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u148	In any case, I would like to conclude that I do not have much against emotional people, but I do when we are in the process of legal treatment. A sense of non-flavour among doctors is generally the time for them to get the medical data and everything they need to make a medical decision. Let me hope, by analogy, that Mr Verhoeven will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u149	Absolutely. Mrs Volp may address me to that and hold me to that. I will look very closely at the consequences and scope of this law; of course we have done so in advance. I will certainly listen to the Minister's answers and look at colleagues' amendments. That makes perfect sense, because D66 always does. We talked about the fact that we said last year that prior information would be a good idea. The Minister states that the policy conditions include the exchange of personal data under strict conditions, but to inform insured persons only in this way, via the policy, I find insufficient. The Minister's letter also shows that insured persons want to be better informed, including about medical professional secrecy. The minister will talk to the NPCF. When can we expect new measures to better inform the insured? Why does the Minister choose to set up a medical adviser on behalf of a health insurance company instead of an independent medical adviser? The Minister indicated on 15 June that she wanted to examine whether the use of an independent expert doctor could be a solution. The Minister's whispering something. I'm not going into that. She's gonna have to say it out loud to me later, so everyone can hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u150	It may not be so common, but the Minister may say something to you during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u151	It's a different file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u152	It's a different file. Mr Verhoeven continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u153	It is a different dossier, but I do not think we have yet seen the outcome of it. Is that right? Is this alternative still possible here? So apart from the fact that it might be another file, I think it would be good to look at the role of the independent doctor. In my opinion, the SP spokesperson also said things about this during this debate and made a comparison with a medical adviser on behalf of a health insurance company. I like to get a reaction, and if I'm wrong, I'll hear it, of course. A recent report from the NZa shows that there is also relatively much upcoding. If I add that 80% of the care fraud is caused by healthcare providers, I wonder whether we are focusing on the right thing with this bill. Upcoding takes place outside the insured person. In what way does this bill go against that? How does the legislative proposal specifically prevent this form of fraud, which is a significantly larger form of fraud? According to D66, this type of fraud is more likely to be caused by wrong incentives in the system. Why does the Minister not choose to target fraud in the place where it is needed instead of cumbersome legislation? In May of this year there was a resurrection in this Chamber Committee, including following a publication in the Volkskrant and a ruling by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The NZa was flagged because the care dates were unauthorized, chairman, unauthorizedly shared with third parties. I am often accused of being suspicious or of never having confidence in the fact that there are sufficient safeguards and careful steps to ensure that all my fears do not come true. However, when setting up such an additional power or possibility for a (commercial) organisation, it always turns out that in one way or another more clumsy, wrong, incorrect or disrespectful has dealt with those data for purposes that are completely unrelated to the reason given in advance to make this additional data accessible. That was an example, a fact, I say as an emotional person to Mrs Volp, to point out that this is indeed underlined by past situations. This bill allows the NZa to share personal data with more organisations. How does the unauthorized handling of care data and increasingly consent to share data with more organisations relate to each other? I'd like a response. Finally. As the Minister knows, both the Personal Data Protection Act and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights state that an infringement of privacy is justified only if it is necessary and proportionate and there is no alternative. We've been over that before. In my group's view, the percentage of cases of fraud does not justify the infringement of medical professional secrecy. Nor is it clear to me that there is no real alternative. I am therefore very interested to hear the Minister's reply. It is perhaps correct to say that we are still considering whether it is possible to table an amendment to inform the patient in advance. I think it is appropriate to mention that in the debate, because otherwise I might surprise colleagues and I would not want to. It's got a couple of hooks and eyes on it. The Minister is about to say something about this and has already written about it. So we are still looking at it and have not yet tabled an amendment, with apologies for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u154	When is submission expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u155	For the vote on the law, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. But as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u156	Good. We have arrived at the end of the first term of the Chamber. I understand that there is still a lot to look up for the answer, so I shall suspend the sitting until 3.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes quite a long time passes between the trigger for a bill and the bill itself. When you treat it, you will see that the reason for it has fallen a little. I'd like to start now. What was the reason for this bill? That was Europsyche. That was a network organization with connected ggz providers. Europsyche had no contract to provide care and no payment agreement with health insurers. The insured persons had transferred their entitlement to the refund, transferred, to Europsyche. The company paid the associated ggz providers with the refund fee received. Most of Europsyche's claims were illegal. The health insurance companies therefore did not grant the reimbursement fees. Europsyche was unable to pay the associated ggz providers due to the lack of reimbursement fees and went bankrupt. As a result, we started to look at what went wrong there in the first place. We have had various debates on fraud. How did this happen and how can we deal better with fraud in the broad sense? Today I get the impression from the debate that we are doing something very new here, as if we are suddenly breaking medical confidentiality. But the natural policy, even more so, the health insurance fund already used this scheme. If you were insured with the sickness fund, the sickness fund could look in a medical file after a careful journey, if there were no other options. When the health insurance scheme became Health Insurance Act, this passed from the health insurance fund, where it was very common, in the kind-of-life policy. The other policy came from the private insurers; they didn't know it because they just made a payment. With that amount, you bought your own care. So actually there is a kind of relic of that old situation, in which we have merged health insurance and private health insurance into a health insurance law. The possibility from the health insurance fund, in which you were finally allowed to look at the file as an ultimum remedium, is simply maintained. From the refund, that has never been adjusted. When we had Europsyche, of course, we did not think: how can we reduce our arsenal? No, we looked into what was missing there. Well, such an arrangement as we have with the natural policies. We could have adjusted it with a ministerial arrangement, but that is not the royal road, of course. The royal road is to do it in a law. Then we can talk about it here. Then you'll have careful law enforcement. So it's not like we're going to do something completely new. This has existed for as long as we know natural policies. Did anything else happen? That question is very relevant. Do we think that we can solve the fraud with this small adjustment altogether? No, this is part of a whole fraud package. We have drawn up a plan of action, on which I shall send the Chamber periodic progress reports. This is just a part of that whole plan of action, which is about additional resources for the NZa, the SZW inspection and the Public Prosecutor's Office. A total of 11.3 million has been added in structural terms so that these bodies can actually act and enforce better. A central care fraud hotline has been established as part of a general NZa hotline. As of 2017, a new approach will be introduced through the deployment of an independent expert physician in criminal investigations; that was the other case. It blew out when Mr Verhoeven talked about independence. In criminal investigations, you can employ an independent expert doctor. There will be intensive cooperation between the IGZ and the NZa as supervisors, the Inspection SZW and the FIOD as investigation services, and the Public Prosecutor and insurers in the Task Force Integrity Healthcare Sector. In addition, there are numerous preventive measures, including a working group correctly declaring, which concerns the medical specialist care and the ggz, the preparation of a handout report suspicions of fraud and clarifying the system of funding in e.g. the ggz by the NZa. Let us be clear: we need to tackle fraud, but this bill did not come from 2013 or 2015. It came from Europsyche, a case that we discussed here, and which we said at the time: crazy that this can be done in kind and with refund not, should we not just align it? The proposal has been delayed, because we have discussed the Borstlap Committee on the NZa, but now we have it here in the end. Fraud must be tackled, all forms of fraud, including upcoding. Upcoding is completely immoral. To say to someone: if you treat a little longer, you just fall into another turd and you can declare more, is completely immoral. I don't know anyone who works at those desks either. I don't know him. If I knew them, I'd say what you're doing is completely immoral. I don't know those desks either. I once asked a few years ago if the NZa could not handle those desks, because these desks are pumping up declarations that we all have to pay, whereas that money should be spent on care. How are we supposed to do that? asked the NZa. Those are private desks and the provider is responsible for what he declares. The provider may be advised by anyone, by his uncle or by such an official office, but ultimately the provider will remain the person responsible for the declaration. We are now handling this along the road of this bill. When we discussed this earlier, including in a debate on fraud, I said to the Chamber: if there are such signals, please report it to the NZa. It's not just the Chamber that doesn't want that. I don't want to, and I can't really understand why anyone who believes that care money should go to care could vouch for that. I checked with the NZa to see how many reports they received. Zero. So yes, there are limitations, but let us be very clear about it: all forms of fraud are wrong. Whether something just falls within the law or out there, you're dealing with it criminally. In the end, we stand for care money to go to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mrs Leijten would like to interrupt you, but first I would like to say something to the Minister. I'm not asking you to explain every abbreviation, but a whole carousel of abbreviations just passed one after the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u159	Those were regulators and investigative authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u160	That's not pleasant for the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u161	Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u162	You only have to walk into a mental health care institution and they use the traffic light system to determine when to declare and when not. That's not gonna fall out of the sky. We've talked about that before. In reply to Parliamentary questions about smart declarations, the Minister said that she did not know "smart declarations," just right or wrong. Can I ask her whether she is saying here: if you pump up your declaration so cleverly that it gets as high as possible, then I think that's already tending towards fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u163	I had never heard of the traffic light system before it appeared somewhere in an article. Before that, I was completely unaware that it existed. I think it is an immoral system and I do not understand why a healthcare institution would want to work with it. Pumping up is just wrong for me. It's incorrect declaration. If you pump up a declaration, by doing one thing and double-declare it, or by playing with time, that's just wrong. That's why I'm talking about correct and incorrect. Otherwise, you're gonna get a word game, and I don't think that's a good idea at all. We need to be clear about what we radiate about what we like and what we don't like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u164	That seems clear to me. Let's talk about the traffic light system. I was at work the other day, and you'll see each patient in the file where it's in declaration-handedness. It's all automated. The Minister actually says: I want the institutions using that system to stop using it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u165	We were talking about medical confidentiality, and Mrs Volp also took the oath. You're supposed to treat a patient on a substantive basis. If a patient is ill and needs to be treated, I'd say you need to continue treatment. If a patient isn't sick anymore, you need to stop treating acutely. At least not sick anymore... If a treatment no longer has any added value, then you have to stop. These kinds of systems are systems that pump up claims. That's upcoding. As long as I am a Minister, I have been strongly opposed to this. I don't think that's right. I don't think that's right. I also mentioned earlier: if there are any examples of this, please report it to the NZa. There's a reason we have a supervisor. It must act against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u166	At that hotline, the highest number of notifications is made about upcoding. Out of my mind, that was 78, but I don't want to mention a wrong number. Are you prepared to ask the NZa in how many cases there is such an automation system underneath which indeed goes against what the treatment should do, namely look at the patient and see if it is necessary to continue yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u167	The most important thing is that the NZa put an end to it. That's the point. These are things we need to fight. That supervisor needs to intervene where he can. If it's up to me, it's gonna get into those desks, too. I asked the NZa years ago, but it says: one can ask anyone for advice, but the institution, the doctor or the person who declares is responsible and we take the person responsible. I thought that was a logical argument myself. Precisely because we want affordable, high-quality and accessible care for everyone, it is unacceptable that fraud and errors make the cost of care unnecessarily high or that patients do not receive the care they need. This undermines the solidarity of our healthcare system. This bill is therefore important. Again, it is not the only solution, but there is a very large plan of action which I periodically update twice a year or once every nine months. Then I'll tell you where we stand and what news we've been using. The Dutch Healthcare Authority is given the power to adopt and enforce rules requiring insurers to provide better overviews of notes, own risk and payments by means of this legislative proposal, and I would like to quote this because otherwise we will only have that last step of those nine steps. She doesn't, so it's important that she gets it. In doing so, it can act against so-called "ghost notes': declarations from healthcare providers for care that has not been delivered. At present, only criminal enforcement is possible. In addition, instructions and administrative actions, such as penalty payments and administrative fines, may be made public, even if they have been followed by offenders. We all think that's important. Many of you have often asked me why an administrative sanction is not made public. With this law, we arrange for it to be made public, even without prior notice. This bill also regulates the security of evidence and the exchange of information between the public authorities concerned. We have also often discussed this in the major debate on fraud: public authorities involved. Mrs Klever mentioned the FIOD. Sometimes it's the DA's office. It may also be the inspection SZW that took on that task for us. As regulators, you need to be able to share information with each other if you want others to be able to act properly. Those are important things in this bill to settle. In addition, insurers are given the possibility to carry out physical checks on a health insurance company in the case of a refund insurance scheme if the invoice goes directly to the patient. Now this can only be done if there is a contractual relationship between healthcare provider and health insurance provider. Like I said, in a natural policy, this has been possible for decades. Exception possibilities of mandatory notification of diagnosis on an invoice concerning mental health care....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Nothing's gonna change that. Medical professional secrecy is very important for the relationship of trust between doctor and patient and thus for free access to care. I have noticed that in the discussion on this bill tension is felt between on the one hand tackling fraud and errors and on the other hand securing privacy and the patient, and that makes sense. That is why I would like to emphasise in advance that I believe that this legislative proposal has struck the right balance. That balance, which has been in existence for a long time, is now applied in full width to the refund policy, precisely because we have now made a very clear statement on what step you need to take before you can take the next one. That is also the opinion of the College on the protection of personal data. In the meantime, it is the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which has given a positive opinion on the legislative proposal. That is an important point for us, when it comes to the balance that is at stake in terms of privacy. There are already strict procedures and safeguards under which insurers are allowed to carry out checks. The inspections by insurers take place gradually to ensure the privacy of the insured as much as possible. Only at the very last step, step nine, is access possible to the medical records. All other steps must be completed before the healthcare provider is required to inspect them. If there are other means of control, which are less burdensome for privacy, then they go for more far-reaching means. The best balance of power is that the provider checks that before giving access to the file. He has every interest in ensuring that these steps have been carried through properly. With this bill, we are equalizing the possibilities of nature and restitution. The legislative proposal incorporates these safeguards around the controls into the law rather than into a ministerial regime as it is now. This is precisely how I ensure better anchoring in order to ensure the position of insured persons and protect the interests of the patient. The health insurer shall only have access to that part of the file with a healthcare provider to which the declaration to be checked relates. So there's not going to be a huge file opened together: look in it and figure it out. No, if you want to know if there has been a consultation at all, you just have to look in an agenda. Then you don't even have to look at the rest. If it is about other things, you only look at that particle that is relevant: only if it is necessary, only through mandatory phase control, only under the responsibility of a medical advisor. Of one million declarations, two and a half are seen on site.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u168	The Minister gives a list of a lot of guarantees and reassurances, which I listen to with interest. Will the Minister admit that, in the increasing collection of all kinds of data by various ministries in all kinds of different files and cases, the rent, telephone records and such like is regularly shown that the previously promised limitations, guarantees and due diligence requirements have often not been met afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u169	This can't be compared to collecting phone taps and stuff like that. You really need to go through those nine steps. These steps must show that there are very clear indications that it is wrong. Then you're gonna check it out. You don't look at everything; I wouldn't like that either. You're looking at a small particle. You use that little particle for your supervision and for enforcement. You referred to a debate we had a few months ago. It concerned a position of the Personal Data Authority that had changed because a European Directive had been amended. Data had not been handled sloppyly and data was not shared while it was not allowed. The directive had been changed and the authority said: pay attention, the directive has changed and what you did must not be done now. Now we are looking for a solution to share certain data with each other. For example, if we cannot do that, we cannot carry out the whole risk settlement of our system. Those are large-scale data. These are real data from one patient on a component, only what's needed. So it's not a big data set at one big point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u170	I find this rather naive. The Minister now says: no, you cannot compare this example with all kinds of other things where data is collected, because there is a roadmap and you can only request this small amount of information after going through all the other eight steps. However, we have seen all kinds of examples in the case of rents, in the case of other surcharges, in the case of energy subsidies. For all these examples, there are pre-built safeguards that make ministers and state secretarys with dry eyes claim that nothing is going to happen, that it is only happening in the extreme, that it will happen very carefully, that there will not be any other parties to the information and that it is only a very small amount of data. However, this type of example shows every time it is simply not true. Then it is very good that there are at least two parties in the Chamber who at least feel that they should pay attention when dealing with this law. Then perhaps the Minister could make some of the proposals made by these parties part of her legislative proposal? In this way it may be able to ensure that this time it does indeed work better than all previous times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u171	This has been happening for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u172	Yes. The Minister has just argued that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u173	Has Mr Verhoeven seen many examples in which it went wrong at that time? Has he seen this happening massively? It's happened 2,500 times on 1 billion claims. In fact, I am often blamed for having to be much stronger. Also in the Chamber is often asked: shouldn't we be on top of this much stronger? Shouldn't we encourage insurers to do so much more? This is being used very limitedly. This has been deployed 2,500 times while there were 1 billion claims. This shows that insurers use this very briefly. Apparently, they can find the information they need elsewhere during those steps. So it's proportional. I have not noticed that this is being used disproportionately in recent decades or that it is being dealt with sloppyly. Those medical advisers have all taken an oath and, moreover, all of them are subject to professional secrecy. I have not noticed that they deal with this carelessly. I haven't heard from the NZa that things are going wrong. No. And this is already happening in most of our concerns. There's a small portion, with the restitution policy. Well, it's a third. So in two thirds of the care it already happens. In that third part there has been a number of things where the whole Chamber was awake and said: it is really strange that we can do it here and not elsewhere. That is now dealt with in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u174	I would like to make one more point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u175	I am hesitant, Mr Verhoeven, because you have been interrupting for a very long time. It seemed like you were holding on to your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u176	Oh, my gosh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u177	I'm fine with asking questions and discussing them, but keep it sharp and brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u178	Clear. The Minister says she has also listened to all kinds of other organisations. In particular, patient organisations indicate that information is very important in advance. They think that's very important. D66 has pointed this out before. How does the Minister intend to make that part of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u179	I am still at the introduction, Mr President, so I have yet to answer all the questions that have been asked. I can say in advance that I have tabled a legislative proposal, I have seen amendments and I have already sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday saying that I think what Mrs Klever's amendment says is a good idea. That amendment provides for ex post information. So this isn't in the bill. A number of spokesmen have now also asked during this debate whether the patient is actually being taken into account enough. I also wrote in the letter that this is not the case. The patient is not sufficiently taken into account. I have just been asked by the spokesperson of the VVD whether I want to make a plan of action for this. I'd certainly like to do that. I would also like to make sure in this approach that insurers need to involve their patients much more actively. I have just been asked to take part in the debate; I will come back to one of the steps to make the patient's involvement visible. There are nine steps. Is there any involvement of the patient in that? Let's say an insurance company needs data because he thinks the patient's cheating. Then it doesn't make sense to involve the patient. That is also my objection to information in advance. Let the spokesmen take a look at the results of the inspection SZW. Fraud sometimes plays with the patient, his agent or his mandated desk. You also need to be able to track down this fraud. If an insurer thinks that fraud is at issue at that level, there is little point in informing in advance, because then all this administration is gone. However, I too would like to take the patient with me at a step in the face of situations where it is thought that the fraud is not with the patient, but really with the healthcare provider. In that nine-step plan, the patient can be made visible if possible. After all, that patient can also have information that might be very easy to get. I still have to respond to all your ideas, but here I have had at least a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u180	I suggest that we wait for the Minister's response to these questions, unless you have a point that has already been raised in the Minister's reply, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u181	It's about the road map.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u182	But she's gonna answer a lot of questions. The minister is still in her introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u183	Yeah, you don't have to get mad at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u184	I'm not angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u185	I can do it now. I could do it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u186	Let's do that. Let us first give the Minister the opportunity to go into more detail about the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u187	I would like to say something in the debate: the preventive effect of looking at medical records as an ultimatum remedium. If you know that this is never possible, not even as an exception, then it is a kind of free pass, especially for those who do not want the good. Is that in the interests of the other doctors? No, because they get smeared with that, too. They also want that not to happen. The preventive effect should therefore not be underestimated. Does it pay off? Well, the whole scheme of fraud certainly pays off. 2.4 billion was previously rejected in 2015 in declarations. That is all in dealing with the prevention of errors and fraud. It's not all fraud. Mistakes can also be made, but the figure is 2.4 billion. They then recovered 485 million. Add it to that. Then there's 11.1 million in actual fraud. That's a lot of money. If you put that whole tree and everything we put in that plan of approach on that sieve and add it up, then it really pays to be on top of it for insurers; do you pay for something that someone is insured for? So what are we talking about from a patient perspective? We all know the examples of the pgbs, where things sometimes go wrong from the patient perspective. We also know the examples of people who, as it were, have declared additional on the basis. That's a different form. On the supplier side, it's often in declaring things that haven't happened, the ghost notes, which this bill wants to put an end to. There is still a lot of work to be done on declarations that no one has ever had a consultation for. Or something is declared under the guise of someone else. It's about anything that could go wrong with a declaration, I'm just saying. Is that always fraud? I really want to emphasise that one more time. No. That can sometimes be mistakes or things that go wrong, but we have to solve that in the sense of: that is not how we do it with each other. Is access to personal data always necessary? No, not in general. In exceptional cases, yes, and only if that's proportional and you've gone through everything. Do these data have to be linked to the person? Yes, because the control function of the health insurance provider results from the choice of a system of individual health insurance. That's how the system is set up. There must therefore be a strict relationship between the benefit to which the individual insured person is assigned in the light of his state of health. So it may be that you need a certain treatment because your health requires it. You can finally see that balance in a file: the benefit for which the individual insured person is insured under or under the Health Insurance Act, the benefit provided to this service provided by a healthcare provider, the rate charged in connection with that benefit, the amount to be paid by the health insurance provider to the healthcare provider or to the individual insured person for the cost of that service. The health insurance provider should be able to establish that this strict relationship exists before it can reimburse the insured person or pay it to the healthcare provider. That is an incredibly important task for the health insurance provider. He can't do that publicly without creating a giant device for that. If he is unable to do so, then declared care costs cannot also be charged to the health insurance. In order to establish that direct relationship, health insurers carry out formal and material checks on the declarations they receive. This requires the use of personal data, including medical personal data. Insight into the file can only be a last resort. Anonymisation is contrary to the implementation of that insurance contract. It is precisely this implementation that requires clarity about the person who is insured. Anonymised data is unusable for the performance of an individual insurance contract with the insured person. Healthcare insurers should be able to secure data for the purposes of control together with investigative authorities. That is a question which Mrs Leijten has apparently asked the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has agreed to let us know if a working method is possible. He has entered into consultation with health insurance companies, including DSW, to find out what they're up against. The necessary safeguards shall apply to the security of data. That is why care must be taken. Following discussions with health insurers, it has been found that the NZa is the designated party to secure the data. The current state of play is that Zorgverzekerings Nederland, the NZa and VWS are exploring the options further. It is agreed that if this is legally possible, a pilot will be launched, for which health insurers, in consultation with the NZa, will present an appropriate dossier to further explore this method. In doing so, they will examine whether this method fits within the current legal framework. The Chamber will be informed of this in the autumn. I'm here to talk about job opportunities when accessing medical personal data. A health insurance company may not further process personal data under the Personal Data Protection Act in a manner contrary to the purpose for which the health insurance company has received them. The health insurer may only continue to process personal data for the purposes specified in the law on the basis of the legislative proposal. The health insurance provider is therefore not allowed to use the personal data when applying to the health insurance provider or to other employers, or for something he did not collect them for. Let's face it, the health insurance company has a wealth of information. What kind of medication does someone take? You know that when you have to pay them back. You know very quickly that if someone is taking HIV inhibitors, there is a good chance that the person has HIV. The health insurance company may only use the data for the purpose for which it has collected them, and not for anything else. That is where very high demands have been made. Then there is something extra here, namely that only the medical adviser can look at the data in that very last step and that is also kept to his professional secrecy, or someone who has been mandated by him and who is also kept to that professional secrecy. How does this medical professional secrecy in the legislative proposal relate to the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity of Article 8 ECHR? The bill limits medical professional secrecy in the case of direct claims to the patient. The health insurance provider uses the medical personal data primarily for the execution of the insurance. The containment already takes place when the medical personal data is mentioned on the invoice. There is no need for fraud signals when carrying out physical checks. So it's not 0.015%. The health insurance companies need the medical personal data for the performance of the insurance contract with the insured person. I believe that the restriction of medical professional secrecy meets the requirements of the ECHR. Of course, the Personal Data Authority is also very good at assessing the proportionality of this legislative proposal, whether we have done it carefully and whether we have looked at everything. I think it is very valuable that they have advised positively on this bill. Can I send the inquiry to the Chamber to which the report of the Task Force on the Integrity of the Healthcare Sector of 29 February 2014 refers? The investigation mentioned there is already in the possession of the Chamber. This is the investigation carried out by the NZa in 2013 and 2014 into the extent of fraud in the care and risks in the system. The Court received the interim report of this investigation in April 2014. The final report was sent to the Court in December 2014 as an annex to the third progress report on tackling fraud in healthcare. The NZa report shows that in 2015 insurers reported only 65 signs of fraud at the Health Fraud Collection Point. Do they take their job seriously? The parties in the Healthcare Sector Integrity Task Force report signs of fraud at the Healthcare Fraud Collection Point. The agreement is that health insurers only transmit signals where fraud has been detected. That is a small part of the total number of signals that insurers are investigating. It is expected that health insurers will report everything as soon as possible, so that it can be automated rather than manual, as is happening now. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands is working with the partners on a solution for this automation. The press release of Zorgverzekerings Nederland shows that in 2015 health insurers investigated a total of 1,045 researchable fraud signals. I conclude that health insurers take their responsibility to identify fraud and investigate seriously. We are working hard to ensure that everyone here takes this task seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u188	Do you have a question on this point, Mrs Volp? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u189	The Minister mentions an important point, namely the signs of fraud which are not reported in the end, but which health insurers themselves do something about. To what extent is it assessed how carefully they handle this? These are signals that do not end up at the hotline, such as the 65 cases to which Mrs Leijten referred. Now it's over a thousand cases. In fact, this is only a very limited number of one billion declarations. How is the care with which health insurers investigate these cases assessed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u190	The NZa will check that out. The NZa is the supervisor who checks whether the insurer carries out sufficient formal and material checks, so that we can be sure that the premium money also goes to care provided in the basic insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u191	Is the NZa investigating all a thousand cases? And if so, where can we find out how she did it and what her findings are about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u192	The NZa, like the NVWA and the Health Care Inspectorate, carries out risk-based supervision. If she has the impression that this point is not taken sufficiently seriously by an insurer, that there is bad reporting, or that the insurer otherwise fails to do things that he ought to do according to the law, the NZa acts. That's the way the NZa supervises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u193	In fact, I wanted to focus on those things in which they do act and whether they act carefully. I also think that the failure to act is an important point. Perhaps it is even more important that, where they do act, that happens carefully. I would nevertheless like to explain a little bit more about the way in which the NZa does this and how often these random investigations are carried out. What happens when this hasn't happened carefully? What perseverance power does the NZa have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u194	There's an important guarantee. When you finally get to that very last step, the provider is kept to see if the nine steps have gone through. The provider has medical confidentiality. He's been held to that, and he's been held to that now. If the provider has the idea that the health insurance provider just skips out and knocks on his door, the first test will take place there, checking whether this is done carefully. If Mrs Volp asks how many things they are, I should check. Maybe we have that information behind this. Then I'll let her know during the debate. I always think: a system must also have a balance of power of its own. I find this balance of power incredibly important. It is also a kind of guarantee that this is done carefully. The supervisor's the last one. I am told here that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is also monitoring whether the checks by the health insurance companies are being properly carried out. Perhaps I could be briefed on whether we have figures on how often the NZa or the authority actually lights cases to see what comes out of it. I think they're gonna get a call about that. I will then come to the consent for requests for insight into the medical file. Is that really such a bureaucratic task? In 2500 cases, it's always a task. If you do it afterwards, you have the same task, only in a different time frame. Materially, that doesn't make much difference to each other. Take cases where the suspect is not the provider but the patient. Let's say you're going to ask permission in advance. We've had some big cases recently. Then everything is destroyed upon arrival. I don't think that's wise. However, I believe that patients should know much better how it works, what the guarantees are and how one can see it. This has also been demonstrated by the NPCF survey. That is why I think it is an attractive idea, especially after the survey, to inform the insured person afterwards. Then there's the argument that patients can get restless. Mrs. Volp asked, what if a patient finds out afterwards? That can lead to feelings of unrest. That is what I would like to link to the amendment on the plan of action, which forces insurers to do it very carefully and to take patients with them: what has happened, what steps have been taken, what care has been taken? So I would like to connect these two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u195	We are now at the control steps. We're gonna check in afterwards. In advance, it would be too complicated, because the patient himself could also be the source of fraud. However, the steps do not monitor the physical control of the patient himself. It's all about the provider. I wonder how the BOLO goes exactly. Can you go to a general practitioner with the remark: we have the suspicion that someone wrote a referral and submitted an account for it; can you show that you have referred? The doctor might say, "Go see the patient." Anyway, I don't know. In the Roadmap, the Minister has it in front of him. On step six, the health insurance companies announce that and motivate why they are coming to carry out a detailed check. Mrs Klever's argument that it could hinder fraud because sleeping dogs are being woken up is already in the ordinary control. What would be against giving the healthcare provider an opportunity to provide missing information by step six or by step seven................................................................................................................... I believe that this could, and that would in any case remove a lot of concerns in my group in relation to medical professional secrecy and probably also in relation to people who are following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u196	In this debate on an important subject, I try to reconcile a number of feelings in the Chamber. A number of members feel that it means so much more if the patient can be informed in advance. I take that seriously, because that's what I think is important. I therefore propose, having heard the Chamber, that one step be taken, namely to take the patient if this does not hinder the examination. I combine this with Mrs Klever's amendment, in which everyone is informed about what happened afterwards. I would like to see whether, where it is not the patient but the provider, an "involved patient step" can be inserted into the roadmap. So I'm looking for that compromise. On the one hand, we must not lose anything that we do not want to lose in the interests of fraud detection, but, on the other hand, we must inform where this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u197	I feel like we're getting a little closer, but I'm not sure what "take it" is. Suppose during a physical check-up with a general practitioner or hospital it appears that I am a patient there and that I may need to look into my file. If I'm taken over, I'd like to give permission first. Could we agree that it is in principle consent in advance, that we build it in and that we inform afterwards if we can't? Then we'll get really close. As I said in my first term, you'll get a huge sting out of this bill, which also contains good parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u198	Permission is not one step but about a whole ditch further. Why? It's about money that we're all raising for the people who need it. If, after all these steps, there is a suspicion that this fraud cannot come out in this way, and if that last step is really necessary, then I think permission goes too far. You can then take the patient with you by explaining how the system works. Then patients will also know better how their rights are secured. This also puts pressure on the insurer to communicate clearly. I want to take that extra step to inform the patient where possible, but permission is just one step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u199	As far as I'm concerned, we're not gonna do all the interruptions in threes, but you're negotiating like this, so just finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u200	That consent stems from the fact that the sharing of medical data is not permitted now if it is not in the interests of treatment, unless the patient consents to it. We have also had this debate in dealing with the electronic patient file and the electronic data exchange. In addition, we do it in advance. The Minister says that this has served a social interest, namely to ensure that this sort of thing is brought to the fore. I think that consent is actually a formality when it is said to every patient taken by the health insurance company: we have done this, but we cannot get it out of the table, and that is why we would like to get it into your data; can we? It must be said, therefore, that we are doing so with caution and that data is not going anywhere; you have that guarantee. After all, what do you do with a patient who is taken away and says that he is not served by it and that he does not want it? That patient can't rely on anything. I would therefore ask the Minister to take another step in this direction, because I believe that we will really be out of it and that the major objection will then be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u201	It is not currently regulated in this way, at least not in kind insurance. That's just where it's been happening, and for a long time. For two reasons, I don't want to do that. First of all, this puts a lot of pressure on the patient, because it also has a relationship with that doctor. If no consent has been given, there may be a conflict of loyalty. That is different when you say: you will be informed that this is happening. If you don't, you put the problem and the hot potato with the patient. Secondly, we must keep the objective in mind. As a result of the Europsyche case, we have said: we really should pull it together; we are pulling back the bone at the point of the refund. As a result of the amendment and my proposal, we are now making it more difficult for insurers to get back there, but we do want to solve this fraud. So we have to keep our eyes on the ball. We have to keep it workable so that the health insurance company can do it eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u202	I have a possible solution to bring Mrs Leijten and the Minister, who seem to be getting closer to each other on this point, closer together. I also have a question about the subsequent provision of information, which is the subject of Mrs Klever's amendment. My comparison is not complete, but I would like to point out the following. When applying for a benefit, you should in principle also cross the check mark "your data may be used in situations where there is a suspicion of fraud." Such a thing could be taken into account in the action plan on correct patient information, i.e. that health insurers give a careful explanation of when they are allowed to use data from patients when there is fraud and all other steps have already been taken. To that end, the Minister may examine this matter at the time of the conclusion of an insurance policy. It must then be specifically included in the explanation of the conditions of insurance. You should also explain very clearly what we guarantee in this law, with the ultimate remedium step clearly meeting all these requirements. That could be verified by the Personal Data Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u203	That's already part of the policy. The policy already states that insurers can do that. If you take out a policy, it says so. Moreover, this has so far not led to a sufficient level of awareness among insured persons. That's why I'm excited about a plan of action. What I would like to add and what I did not raise in the debate with Mrs Leijten is that an insurer is not allowed to pay a declaration if legality is not established. If the patient does not give consent, but does require additional examination, the result is that the declaration is not paid. The provider or the patient will not receive any compensation. That doesn't seem convenient to me either. I think we are doing the utmost and making the implementation practice a lot more complicated for the insurer. Nevertheless, we are doing so by introducing that step in the chain roadmap if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u204	My next question refers to Mrs Klever's amendment. I understand that the three-month deadline has been discussed and that the Minister is in favour of it. What if an investigation is ongoing? It happens all the time. Search and judicial investigations often take a long time. Can the Minister say whether there has been any thought about its consequences at the time when a patient is already informed about the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u205	No. I've looked into whether it's an option to inform people afterwards. The NPCF research has made me think differently. That is what the Chamber has seen in yesterday's preparation and letter. I do not know whether we should regulate those kinds of effects, which I think you should regulate properly, in the law, but they should certainly be properly regulated. In the end, it's about not having to do it when the investigation is ruined. Then it's gonna have to be a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u206	However sympathetic the amendment may be, I think it is an important item if it puts other avenues of detection and legal proceedings at risk. I understand that this is not the case for this law, but we do need to consider the scope of the amendment. It shouldn't be an empty amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u207	Definitely not. I don't have it right here. I will come back to the response to the amendments. It has been asked why there is no waiting for an alternative independent healthcare professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u208	I see Mrs. Klever on a roll coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u209	If the three-month deadline is a problem in the amendment, I am, of course, prepared to amend it. However, I do not have any signs that it is a problem. I'll get that from the Minister later. I would also like to make a comment. My suggestion to insert a rule between Steps 7 and 8, namely to give the patient the opportunity to indicate missing information, or formulated in a slightly different wording, has already been discussed in three interrupt debates. I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u210	If possible, because the patient may be the one suspected of fraud. I want it in there if I can. We will see where we can best do that in the schedule and will take Mrs Klever's suggestion into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u211	The Minister continues her speech. I see another frightfully high pile lying with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u212	I have to say, this is the pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u213	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u214	That other pile is the law and everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u215	Get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u216	I can tell you it's still a big deal. Mr. Chairman. It has been asked why there is no waiting for an alternative independent healthcare professional. The independent expert doctor is a method for criminal investigations into fraud in the care sector. On 5 July I informed the Chamber about this. There is no need for an independent, expert doctor for regular physical control by health insurers, because health insurers already have an independent, expert doctor: the medical adviser. The view of personal data and the detailed control of the insured always take place under the responsibility of a medical adviser. All guarantees of medical professional secrecy shall apply to the medical adviser. The medical consultant has a strict duty of the health insurance company. This is housed in a separate functional unit and separated from the rest of the organisation of the health insurance company. The members of the functional unit of medical adviser shall have a medical professional secrecy derived from him. That is to ensure independence and to ensure medical professional secrecy. Is the declaration system the reason why institutions' annual accounts are not verifiable? We've talked about that a lot. An important cause was the transition from one funding system to another. That gave a huge amount of hassle with transition periods and so on. In this sense, the transition has been a major cause. A second reason is that there is uncertainty about the application of certain rules. You can also see that one asks to clarify and specify the rules during the year. If the NZa or anyone else does, the other says: I thought it was different. That's a lot of hassle. Therefore, all parties concerned agreed to clarify and stay further away from it prior to the year. Healthcare providers, health insurance companies, NZa and accountants need to identify any uncertainties in a timely manner, so that we can resolve them in time. Those conversations are therefore being conducted in full. Then I come to the point that the various steps are too much in each other. In the latest report on the lawful implementation of the Health Insurance Act, the NZa notes that insurers score sufficiently in relation to the material control. However, improvements are possible. These include a more in-depth use of data mining and data analysis. The report does not show that the individual steps are not properly followed by insurers. The various steps are also very concretely regulated. Only in the event that there is no clarity as to the legality of a declaration can the next, more radical step be taken, but always with due regard for necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. I would like to return to Mrs Volp's question on the review of the NZa and the careful implementation of the controls. Until 2014, the NZa assessed with all health insurers whether and, if so, how they carried out the checks. Due to the careful implementation of the checks by the health insurance companies, the NZa has since assessed how insurers carry out the checks in a risk-based manner. Within the foreseeable future, expected in two weeks, the NZa will issue a report on how health insurers handle the privacy of insured persons during checks. That report will, of course, also come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u217	In the context of what we are talking about today, of course, that is a fairly relevant report. The Minister will probably come back to it, but I'm asking her to take this. The Minister has already indicated that the NZa will have more options. Although the Minister does not yet know what is in the report, can she indicate how she intends to see the careful review enshrined in this law? Is that the same way that's happening now? It is, of course, looking at coffee, but what if the NZa is concerned about how privacy is handled, are we not at risk of not anchoring it properly in the law? We're missing a very important piece of information here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u218	Well, I don't think so, because there hasn't been any reason for it in the past few years. The NZa itself found that it was handled very carefully. It has therefore reduced the control to risk-driven supervision. The NZa's instrument box for when a health insurance company is not doing well is maintained. If things don't go well, the NZa can apply the entire supervisory tools to a health insurance company. If a health insurance company accidentally does something wrong and it's a small mistake, she says, "Fai, you shouldn't do that, pay attention, you have to change that." If it's bigger mistakes, then we've arranged well that the NZa can actually maintain. It's not for nothing the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u219	The idea is that we want to tackle the real fraud cases in the most effective way. I think we should keep checking the way health insurance companies do that now. The Minister is right to say that we are not only doing this with this law, but that she is also doing a lot of other things. It may be good if there are more checks later, so that the health insurance companies can better fulfil the task they have legally, but then it is even more important to have a look at the way in which the NZa controls. This is now being rigged as legislation. To what extent do we keep an eye on those health insurers and the question of how carefully they deal with these investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u220	You can see that the NZa has a wide range of tools to apply, if necessary. It is also the case that we have expanded the NZa in recent years, so that it has more capacity to carry out supervision properly. We have also regulated in this law that if an indication is given to an insurer or a sanction is imposed, it can be published. I couldn't. We have had many debates on this subject. I think this is far more effective than any fine. We see that the image is very quiet so far. This bill has been developed for two years, but during that period there were no signals from the NZa that this is not the case. Despite this, the powers are being extended, because we believe it is important that appropriate action should be taken if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u221	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u222	Why has the government not taken on board all the suggestions made by the Council of State, so that there is an extra lock on the door of medical professional secrecy? The advice that the medical adviser should only communicate the conclusion of the physical check to the health insurance provider has not been followed, since the results of the physical check are also relevant in determining the insured right of the insured person and the determination of the damage suffered by the health insurance provider. The other safeguards are included in the legislative proposal in the light of the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State. Then there was a question about the medical adviser's justification for a material check.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u223	Mrs. Bruins Slot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u224	I will wait until the Minister has completed this reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u225	She's gonna hold off on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u226	Where is the boundary between the medical adviser's justification for a physical check and the viewing of parts of the medical file? How is care guaranteed? The health insurer does not process more data than is necessary for the purpose of the investigation and for the circumstances of the case. The health insurance provider will always have to be able to motivate this, including by demonstrating subsidiarity and proportionality, in particular if there are data at stake that can be traced back to a person and that concern health. The legislative proposal does not regulate the criteria on which the necessity should be assessed. That's up to the health care provider himself. That makes sense, because it's so different. I always say there's no such thing as care, because that goes from physical therapy to open-heart surgery. Of course, this is supervised by the NZa and the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Care is also guaranteed by the legal anchoring of the necessity. Why do I not arrange the provision of data between the medical consultant and the investigating authorities in an AMvB, in the context of due diligence? Medical professional secrecy is very important for the relationship of trust between the physician and the patient and thus for free access to care. This legislative proposal incorporates the safeguards relating to controls. That is how important I think it is; it is so important that I do not think a ministerial arrangement is tough enough. In doing so, I will ensure an even better anchoring to ensure the position of the insured person. A legal basis is already provided for the exchange of data between investigative authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u227	The Minister is breathing and Mrs Bruins Slot is asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u228	That question is indeed about what the Minister argues, namely that the health insurer should not process more data than is necessary. My question is that the medical adviser does not provide more information than is necessary. In the end, that is also where the consideration lies: is something medically relevant or not relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u229	Mrs Bruins Slot talks about the medical adviser of a health insurance company who collects the data and no longer has the proportionality of the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u230	Let me explain why I specifically ask this. When the Minister talks about necessity in her reply, she says "the health insurance provider" all the time. However, it is important that the medical adviser does not provide more information than is necessary. In her reply, the Minister quotes the health insurance provider all the time. The medical adviser has just been put in there so that no more medical data is passed on than is necessary. That's the lock on the door that the Council of State is talking about. The Minister replaces that in her reply by the health insurance provider. I'd like to know exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u231	It's the medical consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u232	Fine. Then that's clear. I would like to ask you one more point. The Minister writes in her written answers that the medical adviser's conclusion must be substantiated, firstly because of legal proceedings and secondly in order to be able to explain to the insured person. Where's the border? Who's gonna decide where that line is? An explanation may be very brief and factual, but an explanation may also contain a lot of information which may be said afterwards that it was not necessary to provide it. How do you delineate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u233	Mrs Bruins Slot says the right words: it must be proportionate and necessary. In the end, it's not just the medical advisor who determines this. This is also something the professional is looking at. It must comply with medical professional secrecy. So there is a balance of power. Subsequently, the NZa and the Personal Data Authority will monitor this. I think it is very important that we have these supervisors. More importantly, I believe that the professional himself is there and has medical confidentiality. The same applies to the medical adviser, who has no interest in looking for more than he needs for the case. After all, what's he gonna do with the rest?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u234	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u235	Is it okay if the D.A., the police, and so on, only the medical advisor in the medical file, or is it okay for everyone in that organization to look into it? For reasons of professional secrecy, the D.A., the police and so on don't just look into medical records. They must use the instruments provided by criminal law, such as seizure. The law makes all kinds of demands. They've already been recorded. I refer, for example, to the demand for a reasonable presumption of fraud or a criminal offence. The Judge Commissioner shall ensure that these requirements are complied with and shall ultimately decide whether the said authority is to have access to the data. So the judge commissioner's still in there. Access to the medical records does not imply a medical adviser, but an investigative officer or the district attorney. So that can't just happen. How does the patient know that medical data has been provided? If we do that afterwards, I have answered this question. If they have a case, the investigation services can always approach insured persons if they are actually needed for the investigation. A company is not immediately notified if the FIOD investigates it. However, an investigative body is subject to very serious requirements for breach of medical professional secrecy. In the event that the information has been provided to the investigative service, it is no longer necessary for an insured person to make a supplementary notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u236	I have one more question for clarification. I hear the Minister saying that it has been resolved with Mrs Klever's amendment, but it can also be the Dutch Healthcare Authority that provides that information. Mrs Klever's amendment is only concerned with health insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u237	That's why I did the second supplement. Mrs Klever's amendment is for that part and for the rest it is the same as in other cases involving investigation services. I've made a comparison. If an investigative service, such as the FIOD, conducts an investigation, then there are very serious requirements for breaking medical confidentiality. So they also apply here. Where information has been provided to the investigative service, it is no longer necessary for the insured person to make a supplementary notification. The demands are the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u238	That means that in all cases the insured should hear it afterwards, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u239	Yeah, the call took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u240	The notification has taken place...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u241	...to the insured person, to the person whose data it concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u242	I see various forms of non-verbal communication from Mrs Bruins Slot. I suggest we just keep going, unless you want to explain something, Ms. Bruins Slot?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u243	No, Mr President, I think I'm going to ask you in second place about how that process is going to work. I think that's more convenient than doing this right now in the event of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u244	It's actually some kind of pre-announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u245	We have been asked how we handle diagnostic information from ggz clients on the invoice. I have already indicated that we do not change my introduction. Mr De Lange asked for an explanation of the difference between health insurers in the effort to find incorrect declarations. There is a protocol of Health Insurance companies Netherlands about that material control. It makes it clear which control methods are available, under which conditions they are used and how communication with healthcare providers and insured persons is conducted. It is important to be transparent about this. By means of this Protocol, insurance undertakings shall, by means of self-regulation, give details of the legal requirements for carrying out physical checks. These can therefore be different per health insurance provider. They draw up their own control plan and decide which instruments are to be used. One insurer is farther than the other and uses more modern techniques than the other. This can also explain why different outcomes can be seen there. This does not mean that health insurers do not make a proper effort; however, different interpretations can be made. How is the reduction of the fraud signal handled? Is it to be expected that this will increase again? Neither the health insurers nor the supervisors influence the number of fraud signals they receive. This depends on the number of reports made by clients and patients. From the Programme Plan, we use legitimate care to increase awareness of patients and clients. As I have already said, I am in favour of the action plan in which you take people, also in the preventive sphere: check your accounts and report if you think something is wrong. On the other hand, we are also working hard to get the accounts filed more quickly, so that, as Mrs Volp said, you do not get another bill a year after that. These are all sorts of lines that have been set in motion. What happens if the health insurance company and the patient are in on it? Insured people can have an interest in declaring otherwise, and that is why I want to include the patient in the roadmap "if possible." I have answered some of Mrs Klever's questions along the way. Are patients at VUmc involved in the fraud investigation? Patients are involved in investigations by insurers. This can be done in different ways. First of all, they call the insurer themselves when they see something they don't trust in their declaration statement. This is happening, too. This is also the focus of the effort of the insightful account. This also applies to fraud investigations. Patients may also report to the NZa hotline and may even report it. That can't always happen, especially if they have a role to play. It is always difficult to say anything about the individual case at VUmc, because such case is not with me, but with the supervisor. In fact, I never exchange information on this and do not make any announcements about it. But it is important to put patients in a much more active role. The detailed checks shall be carried out under the responsibility of the medical adviser. It has its own professional secrecy. However, he is often in charge of a functional unit in which several medical advisers are present, as well as people with one of his derived medical professional secrecy. The obligation that only the medical adviser may review the data is governed by the application of medical professional secrecy to those others. The NZa and the Personal Data Authority shall ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u246	Of course, you want to prevent a medical consultant from putting a number of trainees to work and from getting the information from the patient files. Is the Minister now saying that medical confidentiality also applies to the trainees who work there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u247	Medical professional secrecy applies to anyone who works with such medical data. Of course there are young people and people on such a team who are temporary there. They must all make the same statements guaranteeing medical professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u248	The Minister himself said that out of the billion declarations only 2,500 files are being looked into. Can't the medical consultant just do it himself, because there are so few of them anyway? And wouldn't we be able to say that only a medical consultant can look into that, so no interns or other people in the department? I think there's a lot of risk in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u249	In such departments, for example, there are always secretaries who work with them. This is also the case with a doctor, and in the practice of a doctor such a derived medical professional secrecy applies. A doctor's assistant is also subject to medical professional secrecy derived from the doctor's. Something like this also applies to someone who temporarily works with patients in a clinic; and there are also secretaries who have to work with medical data in one way or another, if only looking at them for a declaration. An intern doesn't do the work a medical consultant does, because that really requires a medical advisor. In the process, of course, there are always people who see this data and have the same professional secrecy as an advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u250	Isn't that the danger that several people can look at a health insurance company in such a file? I was and am enthusiastic about this law to deal with this fraud, precisely because there were so many safeguards in it: there is a step-by-step plan; it should only be looked at in step nine, and all kinds of conditions must be met, including those relating to the medical adviser. Can the Minister better define all the people around it? How many can that be? Looks to me like it can't be the whole department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u251	A medical consultant has not been incorporated into the insurer; he is in a very separate unit, which also does not do the work of the health insurers. This really is a separate, independent medical consultant. That's how we set this up. The medical adviser must also meet the requirements that are imposed on him independently. The insurer in which he is employed cannot therefore tell him that he has to do certain things differently, because those demands have been made independent of him and of the device he works with. But within healthcare, there are also medical data in other places that have to be entered somewhere, for example with a healthcare provider for a declaration. A secretary, assistant or doctor's assistant therefore also sees medical records, but has the same professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u252	At the time a doctor violates his medical professional secrecy, he may be subject to disciplinary law. If his direct secretary or assistant does, that's the case. But how is that arranged for the medical consultant at the health insurance company? Is he under the same discipline?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u253	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u254	And who's gonna turn him in the moment he crosses the border? Is that the health insurance guy? Is that the patient who doesn't know or who doesn't know after three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u255	That's exactly the same as in the health care system. It's the exact same thing. If I go to a medical specialist, someone's at the front desk. That person sees certain parts of my medical history and condition. That person has a derived medical confidentiality. That's no different with this doctor than with other doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u256	The question is, of course, how big such a department is. That was the question Mrs Klever asked. The moment you treat yourself as a specialist and you have two or three people who do administrative work for you, you have a direct relationship. In such a department there can be a turnover. There are very often all kinds of shifts of staff within health insurance companies from one department to another. There are those growth pathways where you go through the company as a trainee. If you are really concerned with patient care and that information, it is a different kind of workplace than when you are in a, albeit separate, department of a health insurance company. That work has a very different character. I hope the Minister can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u257	If you work with a health care provider and you see someone taking HIV pills, you also know that person has HIV. We've arranged it so that you don't talk about it. Here we have arranged things differently and much more stringently. We regularly discuss the medical confidentiality of a doctor. That medical confidentiality is a serious obligation. There are also heavy sanctions on them if you don't do that right. And that's right. An insurer has no interest in putting up such a department if he can do it with less. We're talking about 20 different health insurance labels doing 2,500 business together. So you can estimate the size of the circle involved. But without using doctors for everything, even if things just have to be set up? If we go on that tour, that's gonna mean a lot. To date, it has never been regulated in this way by health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u258	We're talking about this bill today. It's not about what happened in the past. It's about this bill and its consequences. I remember we dealt with the Youth Act. There was no risk to children's medical records or to file applications. We now see day in, day out big problems in large municipalities. Children's data is just lying on the street and can be traced back for the rest of their lives. It's about things you don't want to do. I am also sure that the Minister does not want that, but I have the impression that this is being ignored a little easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u259	What is your point, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u260	I am not sufficiently reassured by the answer that a medical adviser is subject to disciplinary law and that all persons working under that medical adviser have a delegated medical professional secrecy. How many people is that? What is the course of these people? What are these people's tasks? Are we sure? We also know that if the employer decides otherwise, if they say that they are going to work with a traffic light or a dashboard system, they will. After all, they depend on what their employer decides for their bread. That's what we see in psychiatrists and psychologists. Are we sure this is waterproof?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u261	We have established guarantees with regard to the medical adviser who applies to all medical advisers in health insurance companies. This means that they have an independence from their health insurance provider, that other demands are made on these medical advisers. Yes, we have a bill, but of course we also have decades of practice. After all, it is not new what is happening; these sections already exist. They have been doing this for decades for all the natural policies we have. Moreover, the medical adviser does the same for other matters in the care, such as permissions. Then there'll be secretaries, too. We have dealt with it as well as the providers, where non-medically trained people who do the administrative work sometimes come into contact with medical data. There is then a derived medical professional secrecy and safeguards have been put on the system. It applies to anyone who works under the responsibility of the doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u262	Mr Verhoeven, you have the floor, but without repetitions. I have just heard a number of reruns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u263	It is about this point, but perhaps I can do with one question instead of three.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u264	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u265	It is a plan; it also depends a little on the Minister. The Minister himself found that the health insurance companies were lacking in the fight against fraud in a number of respects. Then we choose to give insurers more opportunities to get all kinds of data. The way in which this is done can lead to a fairly wide circle in an organisation with a completely different culture than the healthcare providers, regardless of what the minister says about it. This is one of the two hot points for my party. I have a question on this point, following on from Mrs Klever and Mrs Leijten. There is a wide range of organisations, with a great deal of turnover and a different culture from that of the healthcare provider. I would also like to mention the fact that it really is a question of broadening the possibility that already exists, as the Minister says all the time. Can we not do something about this problem, which apparently also lives with the PVV, the SP and D66? That's a pretty broad coalition. What does the Minister say to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u266	Then I'll see what proposals you come up with. You're acting like we didn't lay down any rules for the medical consultant, but we did. You should consider what you consider to be missing in that regard. Those rules apply not only to these medical records; they are always applicable to a medical adviser. It is not the case that we are weaker in the one who is being investigated for fraud than in the other, who has to look at permissions. The whole care has actually been working with such a medical consultant for decades. That was already the case under the Health Fund Act. Of course, it didn't apply to the refund. Then you just paid the bill and didn't mean to. This way of working, in which someone was appointed precisely to ensure that the insurer did not join, was once conceived to ensure that the consultant was independent. There was independent disciplinary law. We have all introduced safeguards that are not new. The consultant's work isn't new either. He will, however, do it not only for nature, but also for restitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u267	Does the Minister see any possibility, when the NZa tests, to check who has finally been granted access? You can think of a personal login code of all people who have come to a specific file. That can be specifically taken into account by the NZa in its review, so that we can also see which people get to that information. Can she respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u268	This is not an unknown phenomenon. We have seen more often in institutions that you can trace this on the basis of login data. We have established a set of rules. I need to know if this is one of them in practice. There are two supervisors who oversee it. We therefore have a prior condition, a supervisor and a disciplinary judge. If there are signs that it is not going well or that it is going wrong in practice, we need to think of something to burn it down. There is something that has been going well for a long time and there is little evidence that something is going wrong. I think that we are now going a little on the road where we are suddenly going to take care of all kinds of extra things, because we ourselves think that things may not be going well. But this is happening in all the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u269	The Minister continues her speech. Any further suggestions can be made in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u270	It wasn't so easy to figure out how to do that without ending up with a bill that makes the detection of fraud for health insurance companies more difficult than when the Chamber said to me two years ago on the occasion of Europsyche: Minister, do something about it. Research carried out by the NPCF shows that 50% of respondents consider that the data is not safe with the health insurers and has no knowledge of the current regime. What does that mean? In any case, it means that there is still a lot of work to be done. The bill lays down different conditions for the protection of data against abuse. For example, it is not allowed to provide more data than necessary; data should not be used for any purpose other than for which they are needed; control should be phased; details cannot be obtained directly, but only after steps have been taken in the control process; access to a medical file can only be a last resort and only if necessary, taking into account proportionality and subsidiarity. This ensures that patient data is processed correctly and correctly. I have already said that the 50% share that concerns Mrs Volp is equally worrying. I come up with a plan of action involving the NPCF, in response to the question of how we can do this better with each other. Do health insurance companies take their role in the care fraud? Is this bill gonna improve that? I said at the beginning of my speech what is about the proceeds of what the health insurance companies are doing and that we have an action plan for the legitimate implementation of care, because that includes the Secretary of State. What possibilities do I have to remind insurers of their responsibilities in the detection of fraud? They don't do criminal detection of fraud, because we invested it with the SZW and the FIOD. However, insurers are responsible, from their controlling role in the system, for checking the declarations and thus also for identifying fraud and conducting investigations. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands has drawn up a protocol itself, which makes it transparent how health insurers do this. They are also involved in the Task Force Integrity Healthcare sector and are constantly looking with us for ways to do better with each other. The NZa has also found that insurers have been taking up their responsibilities more and more in recent years. I refer to the summary report on the implementation of the Health Insurance Act 2014. How is the cooperation in the chain now arranged? Is that enough? Is there a vision? That's really all in the program rightful care. After we have had the debate on the NZa, among other things, you can see that all kinds of collaborations have been forged, which means that parties cooperate much more closely with each other and also strengthen each other rather than work side by side. The role of the NZa in response to this bill has been requested. The NZa gets opportunities through this bill to provide insured persons with better overviews of the notes, their own risk and their own payments. This is contained in the bill, as well as in the administrative capacity to act against unsupplied health notes, ghost notes. I thought it was amazing that the NZa couldn't act against that. The only way to do that was criminal. The NZa may disclose enforcement decisions, instructions and administrative sanctions, even if they have been followed up, and may impose a penalty charge in the event of a refusal to cooperate in the NZa's supervisory investigation. It will be able to secure evidence by exchanging seal and data with the public authorities involved in the fight against fraud. I believe that this will enable the NZa to control and act much more effectively. Mr Verhoeven asked when new measures would be expected following yesterday's commitment that I would talk to the NPCF. I intend to make a start on this right away and to inform the Chamber about the state of play before the end of the year. What have we brought together and what measures can we take? We have been asked how this bill will prohibit upcoding. Upcoding is already forbidden. We really need to combat upcoding and other undesirable practices. If healthcare providers do not comply with the rules, insurers may not pay either. The NZa can maintain. Is the bill proportionate? I have indicated that, if you look at the entire ladder, this is indeed a proportionate and necessary legislative proposal. Mr Verhoeven referred to the independent expert doctor. I sent a letter to the Chamber on 5 July. It indicates that due to the innovative nature of the method, a legal test takes place. In the letter of 5 July, I undertook to inform the KNMG again after the legal test. We have now received the advice of Mevis. Together with the parties, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the FIOD, the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate and the KNMG, I will look at this advice to see if, and if so, how the covenant can be tightened even further. How unauthorized use of data relates to sharing the NZa of data with more organizations has been asked. Before the summer recess, we saw the reports. In the case of data transmission from the CIS, it was a question of whether the legal basis for the provision of data was sufficient. The bill provides a legal basis for data delivery by the NZa to other agencies. Those data are necessary for the performance of the legal tasks of those bodies. The Dutch Data Protection Authority keeps an eye on that. Mr. Chairman. Do I deal with the amendments now or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u271	I think the Chamber would enjoy it if you treated it now. I don't see anyone who disagrees with me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u272	First of all, I added to what I said at the beginning of my speech. For the financial statements in the medical-specialist care and the ggz, the NZa had several upcoding agencies, I'll just call them that, because then we all know what we're talking about in view of the fact that they were actually guilty of upcoding. Since the annual accounts trails, these agencies have focused mainly on the maximum declaration. So these kind of desks cannot be dealt with by the NZa, as I have already said. This can only be done if the providers themselves cross the line. Then there are the amendments. I understand that there are still a number of amendments. I shall begin with the amendment tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Gerven on the deletion of Article I, part L, part 3. This is about codifying the access of accountants to personal data for checking NZa rules. The amendment seeks to ensure that medical professional secrecy...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u273	One moment. Is this the amendment to item No. 17?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u274	I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u275	The amendment in part No. 20 is the replacement of the amendment to item No. 6. If you go into the substance, we will see which number is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u276	Maybe I'll forget some of them, but I'll get them later. The amendment in part No. 20 aims to ensure that medical professional secrecy should not be broken for the purposes of fraud detection. In reality, the amendment blocks the codification of the existing practical but not fine solution. In my view, the amendment does not serve any purpose in this respect, because I have just taken this legislative path in order to get it out of the ministerial arrangements and regulate it neatly by law. This proposed article provides a solution to the lack of internal control of the financial records of healthcare providers detected by the Personal Data Authority, at that time still the CBP. The Personal Data Authority recognises the need for internal controls of performance, registration and invoicing. That's what the AP wrote in the opinion. I therefore reject the amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 21, by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Gerven. This concerns the removal of control possibilities for insurers and enforcers of the Long-Term Care Act. That amendment aims to ensure that insurers are not given new powers to carry out checks, as they could use the information for risk selection. However, this amendment removes all the bases for formal and substantive checks from the law, whereas this legislative proposal provides for a legal basis rather than a basis at the level of a ministerial regulation. The bill is also part of a broader approach to unlawful acts and fraud. These checks are carried out by insurers for the purpose of carrying out the health insurance. Healthcare insurers may use the data they obtain through checks only for the purpose for which the data were obtained. Insurers will therefore not be allowed to use this information for other purposes, such as PR policy. This amendment will force insurers to send the bills to the patient, who will have to advance the money. That is why I also advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 22 members Bruins Slot and Volp discuss the exchange of information between the NZa and other bodies such as the FIOD and the Inspection SZW. They want to regulate this with or under General Measure of Management rather than under a ministerial arrangement. The bill adds only the Inspection SZW as the regulator of the Market Organisation Health Act. The other bodies mentioned are not added, because they were already in it. In the case of the special investigation services, the FIOD and the Inspection SZW are listed in Article 70 of the WMG. By the way, I think that the regulation at or under AMvB is something that the Chamber should assess. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I come to the amendment to item No. 23, by Mr Volp and Mr Bruins Slot. It is about defining the roadmap for formal and material control at the level of the AMvB. The amendment aims to bring the steps of formal and substantive control as currently contained in ministerial arrangements to the level of the AMvB. The amendment also aims to refer draft amendments of this AMvB to Parliament. I agree with the proposers that it is important to ensure the privacy of insured persons. That is why the legislative proposal also provides for a legal guarantee for formal and substantive controls, rather than the current level of the ministerial regime. In doing so, I will ensure an even better anchoring to ensure the position of the insured person. I have deliberately left the individual steps in the individual arrangements with a view to tailor-made work. Nor does the NZa's supervisory reports show that health insurers do not carry out their checks in accordance with these steps and that better assurance is therefore needed. Since I can imagine that the Chamber would find a firmer anchoring of interest, I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. Mr President, I have dealt with the amendments I have before me. I do not have Mrs Klever's amendment from the PVV in front of me. And at this moment I hear from Mrs Leijten that another amendment is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u277	In part No. There is another amendment tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Gerven. It provides that no diagnosis information from the insured person is provided when a healthcare provider declares directly to the health insurance provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u278	I would advise against that amendment. In the legislative proposal, we are maintaining the regulation as we have made it. I think it would be very wrong to remove this arrangement, which has been discussed for so long, with one stroke of pens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u279	This bill legitimizes the Minister completely with the tightening of the leg. What happens at the natural policy must now also be done at the refund policy. This therefore concerns the policy in which the account is not automatically submitted to the health insurance provider, which is often the case. At the refund policy, the bill can also run through the patient. What do we see in the diagnosis information of people who do not want to share this information with their health insurance provider? They must take a refund policy. They can then ensure that these data go off the declaration. The health insurance company then simply reimburses the declaration. Our proposal is to equalize that for the natural policy. What exactly is the Minister's objection to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u280	This is a long way to go. Mrs Leijten knows that, too. The Board of Appeal for Industry has delivered a ruling. In the legislative proposal, we have done justice to the decision of the CBb. The CBb felt that the diagnostic data in the ggz were so sensitive that the NZa had to take an additional measure. The NZa has therefore entered the privacy statement. With that privacy statement, no diagnostic data will go to the insurer via the declaration. That remains possible after the bill. That's exactly why we wanted to do this. That was in response to that ruling to discourage this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u281	I think it's weird that if you don't want this as a patient, you should take insurance other than the insurance most people have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u282	You can give your opinion on the Minister's opinion in the second term. Do you have any questions for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u283	On the one hand, the Minister says that there must be an equal policy for the natural and the restitution policy. That is why fraud detection and access to medical records are now also being introduced for the refund policy. Then why force people towards a certain policy if they don't want the insurer to know why they have to go to the ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u284	This has really been a long journey. In this respect, statements were also made by the CBb. I believe that the interests in this process have been carefully weighed against each other. We have included the outcome of this in the legislative proposal. I therefore maintain my judgment and reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u285	Then there is the amendment to item No. 18 by Mrs Klever. The exchange of views shows that you have a positive view of this. However, we have not yet heard a specific judicium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u286	I would like to commend this amendment to the Chamber. I don't know if that's an official term, but something like that. A question has been asked by Mrs Volp. Before the vote, let me see if that is settled properly enough. I think we should look at that very carefully. If that is not the case, Mrs Klever has already said that it must be well arranged for her. That is where we will get to the votes. I commend the amendment positively. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber, in a positive light. Something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u287	Well, no. We don't do "something like that" here. Can I write down Judgment Room? Or do I note that you are accepting the amendment? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u288	I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u289	This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term, for which I would like to thank you very much. I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u290	Mr. Chairman. On 29 January 2014, the Health Sector Integrity Task Force met to see what had to be done to combat fraud. This report has been sent to the Chamber, albeit with a lot of black parts. On page 4 we can read: "The NZa briefly explains the investigation and the main recommendations including the need for breach of medical professional secrecy and adaptation Article 13 Zvw." When I asked the Minister about that investigation, she said the Chamber got it. The Court would have received an interim report and a final report. I've just checked it out, because it's been a while since we've read those reports. However, there is nothing in that about the need to break up medical professional secrecy, which is what really stands here. The change in the Task Force Integrity Healthcare sector and the exchange with us, the Chamber, with the Dutch public, is something else. Actually, I'm a little worried about that. How does the Minister explain the fact that it says here "need to break up medical professional secrecy" and that we no longer find this in the advice of the Dutch Healthcare Authority? It makes me suspicious, despite the Minister's defense. She defended it with extreme caution, but with that she has not been able to take away my feeling that we are going too far breaking medical confidentiality to detect financial fraud. Patients will be included in the roadmap. How am I supposed to see that? Do they get a call from the insurance company or a note? Are they invited? Is it all explained? Why aren't they just being asked for permission? Suppose the health insurance company has reason to suspect fraud by a specialist or doctor, but cannot fully find out. Suppose, in such a case, the insurer says to the patient: it is serious enough and it is a major social problem, so I ask you to participate in the investigation and to allow access to the medical file. The minister says, "That's a bridge going too far for me." It does not want to burden the insured with the choice of whether or not to agree. Now, however, she saddles the insured with a statement. After all, the insured person is taken into account and informed. However, there is no emergency braking procedure. Nor does the insured person have the opportunity to say, for example, that I have information to refute suspicion. The patients are therefore not saddled with a choice but with knowledge, without being able to exert any influence on something that is about to happen. Another argument to call it a bridge too far to ask for prior consent is the loyalty between patient and doctor. I'd say it's very good that there's loyalty. This is a very important basis for good and effective treatment, as we all know from research. The relationship in care is therefore essential. But here too, the insured person, the patient, is told that there is something wrong with his doctor... that does something with loyalty... but has no influence on the further course of the study. I think that's crazy. If the minister really thinks it's an ultimatum remedium, then asking for consent from the patient is not a barrier at all. Unless what was exchanged in January 2004, namely breaking medical confidentiality, is the real agenda. There will be an action plan for insured persons, so that they know what rights and obligations they have with regard to privacy in care. It's all very nice, but there's a means of power, isn't there? That means giving permission. We have arranged this for the electronic exchange of data. That's what the minister was for. Now she's not taking care of it. It is clear that breaking medical professional secrecy is also described as such in the report of the Task Force on Integrity in the care sector for my group is the major problem with this bill. Let me make two more attempts; perhaps the Minister can convince us. We all consider it important to detect fraud or financial errors. As far as that authorisation is concerned, this is the following. There is an amendment from D66 that I have co-signed. I'm asking the Minister to embrace that. If it's an ultimum remedium and if there are guarantees, it doesn't have to be a problem. One of the NZa's opinions states that there should be a Chinese wall when access to medical records is arranged for health insurers. That means we're gonna separate a department. These have become medical advisers and they must operate as independently as possible of their employer in this case the health insurance company. Suppose we actually build a Chinese wall. So what would be against making the medical consultant truly independent, so to separate from the health insurance company? The health insurer shows what steps he has taken in the context of physical control. He won't come out and ask for an independent medical consultant, perhaps at the NZa. This one's gonna look, and if there's anything, he can deliver the file to the health insurance company anonymized. They then decide what to do: to withhold money, to deliver it to the Public Prosecutor's Office or the NZa itself, i.e. a criminal, administrative or civil-law solution. Then it's really a Chinese wall. If the Minister is prepared to do so, she will remove all the objections we currently have. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I see you wiggling and I see time running. As far as we are concerned, the lack of capacity on the part of public authorities to effectively detect fraud should not be a reason to break medical professional secrecy and lay it down with health insurers. For us, medical professional secrecy is so crucial that we believe it should not be used for fraud detection. It should only be broken if the patient is seriously harmed by the doctor if the data is not shared, or if consent is granted. If this is not complied with, we regret to say that this bill is not proportionate and therefore it does not deserve our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u291	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I have a few more questions. We've just had an exchange of views on the medical consultant's conclusion. The Minister makes it very clear that the information provided by the medical adviser to the health insurance provider must always be proportionate, no more than necessary and necessary. That is quite general. As a CDA, I would like to see certain safeguards in place, especially since we now have the opportunity to settle that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that medical advisers or persons working under their responsibility, on the basis of the law, have an insight into the medical data of an insured person as an ultimum remedium;]] [[considers that a medical adviser does not provide more information to a health insurer than is proportionate or necessary;]] [[calls on the Government, in the scheme based on Article 68a, third and fifth paragraphs, and Article 68b, paragraph 1, of the Health Organisation Act, to provide that the conclusion and the justification of the conclusion by the medical adviser do not contain more information than is necessary and that the assessment has been designated only in the context of the fight against fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33980-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u292	This is also reflected in the objections raised by the Council of State. It says that you should only make the conclusion. In my opinion, the Minister has well justified why the conclusion is too little and why you should do so well within those safeguards. However, I would ask her to consider whether this necessity and proportionality can be better substantiated. In the motion I deliberately put the word'regulation', because the articles to which it refers now have to be worked out in a ministerial arrangement. The amendment tabled by Mrs Volp and I may make it an AMvB. We were just talking about reporting the data. I am sympathetic to Mrs Klever's amendment to inform insured persons afterwards. The Minister says that it is already well settled with the investigation services, because insured people are told afterwards. The inspection SZW will get a very large number of cases on its desk, but it may not prosecute in all cases. If there is no prosecution, but the medical data have been given to the SZW Inspection, for example in case of suspected pgb fraud, will the insured person be informed? The Council of State indicated that careful consideration should be given to providing diagnostic information on declarations made by the ggz. The Minister said in her introduction that nothing really changes about that at the moment. Does it mean that such data can be provided in the physical check or does it mean that there are simply good guarantees to meet the concerns of the Council of State? I'd like to get a more detailed explanation on that point. The CDA considers it important that fraud can be dealt with properly. It has added value that things that were first regulated in lower legislation will be better secured by this bill, especially because we can therefore properly consider how medical professional secrecy is handled. This bill contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u293	Mr. Chairman. This debate has made it clear that one thing is at the forefront and that the Chamber broadly indicates that tackling care fraud is very important. The Minister, whom I thank for all the answers, quite rightly pointed out that it is very important to keep an eye on the ball in the fight against fraud. If you add up what it's all about from the small calculation that I made, it turns out that in the area between fraud and errors, about 3 billion per year is involved. It's clear that this money, if it falls into the wrong hands, doesn't go to care. It can't be. Fraud is needed, because the care money has to go to care. The VVD stands for that. This bill lays down a legal framework which is an important part of the practice. In the first period, I said that it was important to work on an action plan. I called on the Minister to come forward with a plan of action. That's widely supported. The VVD is happy with that. It is important that insured persons are well informed about how it all works with the physical checks. You need to know how that goes. Furthermore, the insured person should be involved: can he help with the audit of accounts? That increases the acceptance and commitment. Fortunately, the research of the patient federation indicates that Dutch people also want to help. Invoices should also be made easier to understand and sent in a more timely manner. If all that comes together in the plan of action, I expect we can take huge steps. There has been broad talk about the way we provide safeguards around privacy. It is perfectly clear that looking at medical records, or some of them, will always be seen as an ultimum remedium. I think it is a good thing that a number of further amendments look at what the outcome will ultimately be. The main objective, the fight against fraud, must be borne in mind. We need to keep an eye on the ball in order to achieve what we want with this broad approach, namely that care money is spent on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u294	This interruption follows on from the small debate we had in the first term. There are consultants in the care that advise with consultancy firms to make a maximum declaration. We just heard from the minister, who initially said he didn't know those desks, that the NZa has put it together and that it shows that those desks are indeed there, but that we do not have any legal means to do anything about it. When Mr De Lange says that care money should go to care and that the patient's interest should be paramount, what does the VVD intend to do to the army of care consultants who are advising to declare maximum, which is not yet fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u295	I think we have taken another good step in this matter today. The Minister was perfectly clear: it is immoral to do upcoding and such to raise declarations. That's an important norm. I very much agree with the norming and I think you should do it that way. That's an important signal to all those caregivers: you don't do anything that's immoral. That's not necessary at all. If you do and it's not right, it's fraud and you have to report it to the NZa. Then, fortunately, we have the bill as it is now before us, which states that you have to adapt it that way. In this respect, I think that we have again made a very clear statement today that we do not want this and that we need to be absolutely clear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u296	Upcoding is punishable: that you say you've done something more than you've done, which gives you more. But pumping up declarations is about really looking up the edge to fill it as much as possible, so that you get the best possible price. However, the Minister just said that this is not fraud and that there is nothing to be done about it. So we're going to look at the medical level of people. All this must be possible by the insurer, but nothing can be done to the army of advisers. What kind of feeling does the VVD have? Have we really come a step closer or are we saying to each other: yes, it exists, it seems to fit into the system, that apparently lures it out, we can't do anything about it, and let's just leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u297	I feel like we've taken some valuable steps again today. And there has been another change today, namely the incredibly important signaling effect of this bill. I have also looked into how it is going to work in all kinds of places, and all these parties are going to help to make it clear that fraud should not pay and that care money should be spent on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u298	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers, for her positive response to my amendment and for the commitment to see whether the patient can be included in the roadmap, sometime at step seven or step step. When can the Court expect the results of this? I remain somewhat concerned about the various persons who, under the responsibility of the medical adviser, can access files. The Minister calls this "persons with derived medical professional secrecy." Can the Minister ask the NZa to pay particular attention to this and immediately pick up signals if something seems to go wrong? Can the Minister undertake to do so? I don't know if the Minister has heard my question. Finally, fraud should never pay. We must therefore make every effort to limit fraud. Although this bill is a small part of the overall fraud approach, it is nevertheless an important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u299	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her very comprehensive reply, which is also important for the legal interpretation. We must therefore deal with this very carefully. She herself said that we are not doing so much news and that it was already in old legislation. Nevertheless, it is very important to have discussed it very carefully once again here, at the moment. It has also set out a number of bottlenecks. The amendments I tabled together with Mr Bruins Slot of the CDA provide sufficient guarantees for the PvdA of the sacred good of medical professional secrecy. The Minister also mentioned positive aspects and things that are now possible, for example through the expansion of the NZa. This is without prejudice to the fact that we have had a very wide-ranging discussion about privacy here. I told you, under a law, you have to look at how it works and how it works. I am therefore curious to see when we can evaluate these documents in particular. The amendment is still in the Ministry's hands, but what is the Minister's view when something is successful and works? And when do we see the need to intervene? After all, the NZa's investigation into the way health insurers deal with privacy in the investigations they conduct is still coming. I also have questions about the position of the medical consultant, who has been nicely rigged. I've just been Googlein'. There is also a whole register and quality requirements have to be met. I was wondering if the Minister would be willing to look with the medical advisers at what this legislative amendment will mean and at the interpretation of what they may or may not share. Mrs. Bruins Slot spoke about that, too. What consequences does this have for their training and training and for the way in which they can be treated with disciplinary action? Mrs Klever also referred to the fact that it is, of course, much more difficult for a health insurance company to find out exactly who had access to a medical file. I think that is also a relevant point. A general practitioner is a limited number of people. At a hospital they work with a coded system. If I looked at my neighbor's data in a hospital, it would be linked to my login records. I would like to hear an explanation of that. The NZa can certainly go into this in more detail in the checks, as Mrs Klever suggested. If a patient sees that there are many more people who have understood his data, and he doesn't want to, I think there should be a feedback to the question of how many people they are and whether that has gone properly. Then I have one motion on the health insurance companies, because the Minister is right to say that this is not helpful for the search possibilities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas health insurance companies do not invest enough in carrying out checks on fraud and indicate that they do not receive any incentives to do so;]] [[considers that monitoring of the use of premium money is part of the mission of the health insurance provider and that it should be carried out in order to ensure trust and solidarity in the care system;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify ways in which health insurers can be required to monitor the legitimate use of premium money and to inform the Court of the possibilities for doing so before the 2017 budget is discussed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33980-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u300	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It was a special afternoon for me: my first debate on care, my first debate without tie and my first debate where I was most in agreement with the SP and the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u301	Those are a few facts in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u302	I'll put that on my résumé, Chairman. It is also a very important afternoon, because we talked today about the contradiction between fraud and privacy. You could even put it more broadly and say that it is a contradiction between security and freedom. This contradiction is reflected in many debates, but in fact it is a sham contradiction. The answer is always that we have to find a good balance between these two worlds and then it's gonna be okay. The Minister also said today that she thinks that this bill is the right balance. I am just concerned about the practice that is attached to the balance that is being chosen with this bill. My concerns stem from the fact that, in a much broader sense, I see that more and more data are being collected by public authorities, for certain reasons. It is always said that it is necessary, proportionate and effective, that it is limited to the purpose for which that data is collected, that it is done carefully and that the data will not be kept for too long, that the circle of users of that data will remain small and that there will always be a form of consent, participation or involvement of those from whom the data is collected. That's the kind of thing we hear all the time and today. In this sense, the debate was similar to debates I have had before, I say to the Minister. At the housing market one wants to know in advance someone's income for the provision or not of rent allowance. That's also an invasion of privacy. Another example is that the phone records are collected so that you know where someone has been, because that way so-called terrorist suspects can be caught. That happens a lot and a lot. I find it worrying that the cabinet does that a lot. It has also always been shown that these measures do not meet the steeld expressions such as proportionality, effectiveness, purpose-binding and care. That's why I'm worried about this law. I know something has to be done to deal with fraud. I do not have to say that, but it happens too often that the way in which fraud is dealt with is limited in effectiveness and causes a great deal of collateral damage. We almost didn't talk about the collateral damage. There are two things I am concerned about. First of all... There is a power relationship between the patient, the healthcare provider and the health insurance provider. In my opinion, this power relationship is very often the subject of this Chamber. This debate fits in perfectly with that. Second. Of course, medical professional secrecy will be wider than it is now in practice to be put under pressure. Parties like the VVD and the Labour Party say: come up with alternatives. We will. Mrs Leijten of the SP has already announced that there will in any case be an amendment on the independent consultant and its better assurance than is currently the case. It's the Chinese wall that Mrs. Leijten was just talking about. Indeed, we are still puzzled, but we will succeed: we will table an amendment on the patient's prior receipt of information. We do not do that to make Mrs Klever inadequate. In any case, it has arranged for this to happen afterwards. If our amendment does not succeed, but that of hers does, we will support her amendment anyway. However, I think that is even better in advance than afterwards. That is what I said in the debate. This would reduce the infringement of medical professional secrecy in such a way that it is no longer problematic for me, certainly not in conjunction with the proposal made by Mrs Leijten. Those two things can still be expected from me. I will also deal with these two things when discussing this proposal in my group. If these two alternatives are not accepted, I think that the spirit of this debate and the balance sheet is mainly a very serious fraud, while the breach of privacy is not a good thing. Then the balance has gone crazy and we cannot support this bill. We have two alternatives, which we consider to be very important. I would like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u303	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I have found that the Minister can and wants to reply immediately. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u304	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I said that the Dutch Data Protection Authority was positive about this bill. To put it more precisely, she was not about the first version, but about the second version, which is here for discussion. I'm just saying that for the sake of completeness. Mrs Leijten actually says that this cabinet has an agenda for breaking professional secrecy. I'd say that's a very crazy agenda, because there's a lot of professional secrecy in care for nothing. That is what we need to do so that everyone with peace of mind can put everything on the table with a doctor and seek medical help without having any negative consequences for him or her. So that's a big good. It's of great value, but not absolute. We've seen that before in other files. Yesterday we were talking about professional secrecy in the consultation on suicide: to what extent are family members allowed to look in the file? There are always considerations to be made. There is no absolute medical professional secrecy, but a professional secrecy which we must guarantee as far as possible in relation to other interests. That's what this bill did. I'll say it again. I am somewhat surprised at the input of D66 in particular. This practice also existed at the time when D66 was in the government itself. It wasn't even good and carefully regulated in the law. Now we are dealing with this through the law and we have all added guarantees. There are additional safeguards, but now it is suddenly a problem, when it was just applicable at the time. At that time it was less well guaranteed and less well arranged. I found it necessary to regulate it by law and to discuss it with the Chamber in this careful manner, to weigh it up and to secure it for the patient. I am also surprised that we have had a number of major fraud debates in which the approach was, in particular, 'Minister, we have not been able to do anything at Europsyche for all those patients for restitution; we can do it for those in kind, but not for the patients for restitution'. Well, that's what we're trying to do with this bill. If you find the fight against fraud an important aspect of our insurance, for which we pay high premiums and where we are in solidarity with each other, you also want care money to be well spent. That's the lead. Then you have to be able to act against fraud. Then you must be able to act against fraud that has been committed in the context of such a Europsyche. Then you must be able to act against fraud, not only when it comes to upcoding, but also when immoral things happen. That's exactly what I've been calling attention to for years. It's not like I'm thinking, oh, let that go. That is a complete misconception. I have already indicated that the NZa cannot act directly against it, but indirectly: if a care institution does so, the care institution can be contacted and paid for. It's their responsibility that they've been given advice from azzp'er, a desk, or I know who. They must be taken into account and, as far as I am concerned, they should also be punished. I think it is wrong to say that the whole system is being overturned. We will strengthen it for a group that cannot do so now, but we will do so for two thirds later. It has major consequences to remove responsibility for material and formal control and for legitimate concern for a piece from the insurer. I'm not against that. A capacity shortage is not an argument. In recent years, I have expanded the NZa, the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We've invested a lot of money in that. The capacity has only increased. I am convinced that we will solve it with this bill and that we will need the whole programme, including that additional capacity. We do not work with an external medical advisor instead of a Chinese wall because it adds nothing. The requirements of the external medical advisor, Mrs Volp said, are similar to those of the current medical advisor. They're strict and not too childish. The NZa oversees independence, expertise, etc. Mrs Leijten asked about the report and the report. At the time, perhaps she remembers that, I asked the NZa, at the request of the Chamber, to indicate the extent of the care fraud in the Netherlands. It was discussed in that meeting. The NZa explained in the Administrative Consultation Task Force Integrity Healthcare to the other participants that a determination of the extent of the fraud in the care would only be possible if the NZa were allowed to look into the medical records. However, this would require a breach of medical professional secrecy. It was not a plea of the NZa to do so, but an answer to my question whether the NZa can map that size. The NSA replied that it can only do so if it breaks the obligation of professional secrecy. After that, the NZa explained what would be needed. Since the NZa is not allowed to look into medical records and I do not want to settle that, the NZa made an estimate of the irregularities in the care at the time. I sent it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u305	A lot has been blacked out in the report of that consultation given to us, including an explanation of a memo from the NZa. This is too bad, because that doesn't tell us what it is. It says literally: the NZa briefly explains the investigation and the main recommendations, including the need for breach of medical professional secrecy and the adaptation of Article 13 Zvw. The latter concerns the law of care that was eventually blocked by the Upper Chamber. Is that second this law or is it something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u306	This was in the context of a request from the Chamber to give me an overview of the fraud. I asked that question and the NZa said they couldn't deliver it. I also find it annoying if I have to send painted reports, but we have tried to give maximum transparency. It was non-public consultation and then it is customary to remove a number of things that cannot be shared with third parties, which have also been established, from the government. We painted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u307	It is a study with the main recommendations. Apparently, they're so important that they're written down and they're not blacked out. That is good, because that enables us to talk about this now. The Minister is now saying that we received that investigation with those recommendations in March and December of that year. I caught them, but they do not contain any recommendations aimed at breaking medical confidentiality. That's what it was. If that were the case, if the NZa were to say that it could not provide a real factual basis because it could not, that would mean a breach of medical professional secrecy and that it would not want to do such a thing, it could of course have just been in there. But it really says "recommendation." This makes me wonder what happened and what research that has been. If the Minister says it's a bridge too far for her to grant permission, that makes me very suspicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u308	Of course, that can always be the case, even if you share almost all the information, including the one that you can find. These are really two different things. The NZa has never recommended us to break medical confidentiality for the NZa. She answered my question as to what she thought would be necessary for this, and in her view medical professional secrecy should be broken. With us there has never been any mention that the NZa could view personal data in a medical file. We have never considered that, so that has never come to pass. And she never asked for it, but only stated it in a statement to me. I also exchanged this with the Chamber when it asked why the NZa could not deliver this. Many Members had asked me to do so. My answer was: because a supervisor doesn't have all that data and he can't just walk into a hospital and ask him to look at the medical records. A supervisor can't do that. Mrs. Bruins Slot filed a motion. It found that medical advisers or persons working among them have an insight into the medical data of an insured person on the basis of the law as an ultimum remedium. It considers that a medical adviser does not provide more information to a health insurer than is proportionate or necessary. I agree with all of that. However, it asks the Minister to arrange on the basis of a number of articles that the conclusion and the justification of the conclusion by the medical adviser does not contain more information than is necessary and that the assessment is only appropriate in the context of the fight against fraud. These articles also cover other matters. In any case, the medical adviser does not see more data than is necessary and there must always be proportionality, but access by a medical adviser to a medical file is sometimes necessary for material control, not only for fraud investigations. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. However, Mrs Bruins Slot could also simply make it'material control'. I think we could get pretty close, but that's obviously up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u309	I am also looking closely at the opinion of the Council of State and only on that basis will I vote on my motion. So colleagues know that there may be another amended motion. Before that, however, I would like to take a closer look at the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u310	If that change is about as the Minister indicated, do I understand the Minister that she would leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber if she had seen that motion as such on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u311	Yes, Mr. Chairman. There is a big difference in that. Maybe we should just split things up. My judgement on this motion is the judgment I have given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u312	And for the amended motion, did you indicate the direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u313	Yes. Mrs Klever said that the Inspection SZW has a lot of business, but that it does not always lead to prosecution. She asked if that would be shared. No, that is not shared in the current situation. She further asked whether there are good guarantees and what about the diagnosis and the ggz in that declaration data. Yes, there are good guarantees for that, because we have taken on board precisely the ruling of the Board of Appeal for Business. So all the guarantees that this college had to offer, which were actually negotiated for years, are in it. Then Mrs. Klever asked... Oh, no, I'm working on Mrs. Bruins Slot's questions. So I'm addressing her again. It's been a long time. The College of Occupation for Industry, the sector and everyone involved have worked something out. That has been taken over one-on-one; we do not change anything about it, so that it is well secured. That's what everyone's working with right now, and that's what's going on now, after years of scrubbling about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u314	I have a question for clarification. Does this mean that the material control does not break through what has been agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u315	What's agreed is one-on-one taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u316	So even if the material control is carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u317	This is about the diagnosis on the declaration. That's one-on-one taken over. The bill doesn't change the rules we set for it. Mrs Klever asked when the roadmap would be drawn up. I do not know, but I will involve this point in the approach plan and at least inform the Chamber about it this year. I think it's a good part of that. Mrs Klever also asked if I could ask the NZa to pay particular attention to the medical adviser. That question was actually in line with Mrs Volp's request, which said that there are a lot of rules, requirements and requirements for the medical adviser. At the request of both Members, I will consult with the NZa on how to deal with this issue on a sample basis in its monitoring. I will therefore pass that request on to the NZa and I will report to the Chamber on the discussion with the NZa. Moreover, the Dutch Data Protection Authority is also a supervisory body in this regard. At least I will take this point and put it back to the Chamber. Mrs Volp has tabled a motion asking the government to take stock of how health insurers can be required to monitor the legitimate use of premium money. They are already legally obliged to do so under the Health Insurance Act. I do not know exactly what Mrs Volp is trying to do, because health insurance companies are already legally obliged under the Health Insurance Act to carry out the rightful use of premium money. The NZa is responsible for carrying out this legal task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u318	I have not heard an explicit judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u319	I'd say "unneeded," because we've already taken care of this. If the Chamber adopts the motion, I will nevertheless refer to the Health Insurance Act, in which this is already regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u320	"Obvious" is not a judicum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u321	Then I say "dissuade," because we've already taken care of it. Mrs Volp asked at what point in time the Health Organisations Act is being evaluated. That happens every five years. I admit that I will explicitly include these amendments in the evaluation so that we can see what they have meant, what their consequences have been and whether we are satisfied with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u322	There is another amendment on this subject, so we have to look at that. This is seen in a very specific and, as we have discussed, sensitive piece of this law. Every five years an evaluation is, as far as I am concerned, a somewhat lengthy period, but I await the Minister's assessment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u323	I would like to take a positive look at that, but I need to see the amendment first in order to make it clear exactly what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u324	I do not mean to be annoying, but your answer presupposes that I should like to know precisely that the Chamber will receive a written response from you to the amendments before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u325	Not to the amendments I have already dealt with. However, it is used to give an opinion on new amendments once we have received them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u326	It doesn't always happen, which is why I asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u327	I will continue with my speech. Let's see where I was. It is noted that it is difficult to find out who has had access to a file. I'm gonna include that in the action plan. I would just like to comment on a point made by Mrs Leijten. In the NZa summary report entitled Research on vulnerabilities and financial irregularities in healthcare, page 11 says: "To arrive at a more accurate assessment, it is necessary to examine medical records on a sample basis. This is not permitted by law." So I did not see any reason to settle that, because I do not like that balance. Mr Verhoeven noted that more and more data were being collected. These data were collected and are selective. They're not collected randomly, put into large databases, and then we'll figure out what to do with them. No, they're for a specific purpose. It must also be proportionate. In fact, it's more strictly regulated than what's allowed right now. It is governed by a law rather than by a ministerial regulation and we have introduced additional supervisory instruments into this law. In short, after the adoption of this law, we have made it stricter than when it is rejected. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u328	I see Mrs Bruins Slot still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u329	I've been looking at the background information. I will, indeed, amend the motion. The operative part 'in the context of the fight against fraud' is replaced by 'in the context of physical checks'. In my view, this meets the Minister's objection, but the aim of the motion remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u330	Yeah, we just switched that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u331	Fine. Then I'll file an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u332	This brings us to the end of the second-term reply given by the Minister. I would like to thank her on behalf of the Chamber for her reply. I would like to thank Members for their input. I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the amendments, at least if they have been tabled in good time, the legislative proposal and the motions for resolutions.
