ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, in particular the Prime Minister and the other members of the cabinet. I inform the Chamber that today and tomorrow, the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport alone today, are absent with permission from the United Nations General Assembly in New York. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation also attended this meeting, but she will be here in the afternoon. I would like to give the Deputy Prime Minister the opportunity to address the paralympic athletes in the Great Church between 12.45 p.m. and 2.15 p.m. For the people in the public gallery and for those who follow this debate in other ways, I shall briefly state what today's intention is. The first term of office will take place today. Speaking time has been fixed; they vary between 40 minutes for the largest groups and 5 minutes for the smallest group. The list of speakers is subject to the so-called budgetary order. This means that the group chairmen of the opposition parties are talking alternately with those of the coalition parties, starting with the largest opposition party. I now give the floor to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP Group. Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A small point of order. It may not be customary for a member of an opposition party, but on behalf of everyone I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior back to our midst after his speedy recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you very much for this comment. I now give the floor to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Swear, stingflies, water with blood, frogs, pestilence, the death of firstborns, lice, hail and fire, locusts, darkness I see Mr.Van der Staaij already watching are the ten biblical plagues of Egypt. We're gonna get them all. If we can believe former Minister Donner, the frogs will fall if we eliminate our own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is good that Mr Roemer recalls the plagues of Egypt, but perhaps it would be better if he did so again and then in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	I had prepared myself for that, Mr Van der Staaij, but I was horrified to end up with the death of firstborns. So I thought: Mr Van der Staaij must point out that the order is wrong and then I agree with him. This was planned. Let me reassure Mr Donner: we are going to eliminate our own risk, that is true, and in that respect we are not going to indulge in the ten biblical plagues, but we are not going to get in the way of the treatment of sores and stingflies with a new national health fund. Let's get down to During this debate we are discussing the forthcoming budget of this cabinet. That is a good time to take stock of this Prime Minister's six years of VVD policy. When the government took office in 2012, the Prime Minister mentioned the cooperation between the VVD and the Labour Party as the logical outcome of the election results. I wonder if he still feels that way. For a lot of people it was and doesn't make any sense at all. They voted for the VVD to keep the PvdA out of the door, or they just voted for the PvdA to get Rutte out of the Tower. They both got, to the displeasure of almost the entire Dutch population. For six years, the Netherlands has been governed by this VVD-premier with the support of several parties and this has consequences. This has major consequences for the way we deal with each other in this country: we are going to live more and more alongside each other, people are more focused on themselves because they are simply trying to keep their heads above water. The care becomes priceless for many, the economy remained behind more than needed, study became much more expensive and the division in society has grown. This Prime Minister began in the period in which we were in the midst of various crises, which of course is not easy. But it's never easy to rule a country. I believe that circumstances make people and that politics is essential in shaping those circumstances. Political choices create the conditions that man makes for the whole of the Netherlands. A lot has changed in six years. For a young person who is 18 years old today, the world looks different than for a young person who was 18 years old in 2010. For the former young people, there are fewer permanent jobs. There are more and more flex jobs and only a quarter of young people can live. In 2010 you could still count on study funding and all young people still had fairly equal opportunities to continue learning. Now more and more young people are dropping out because the Prime Minister and his team have abolished study funding. This has locked up the emancipation for many of these young people; learning has become borrowing. A debt of more than €30,000 is the prospect for a young adult of today. Only a quarter of the 20s can take care of themselves and is financially independent. It's no wonder they're staying home more and more. Our youth deserves better: learning instead of borrowing, permanent work instead of fucking contracts and independence instead of being dependent on parents. As a former teacher, I know how important good schools are to our children. The school must be a safe place with enough teachers to give each child the attention it deserves, but unfortunately thousands of children are currently in a class with over 30 pupils. Therefore, the SP has submitted an initiative law with D66 aimed at reducing the classes: a direct maximum of 29 pupils per class and an average group size of 23 pupils in the long term. Smaller classes are very important for children and teachers, especially now that there are more and more classes of children in need of extra care and guidance. We want every child to have enough attention, teachers to be able to teach without fear that half of them can't go along, and that attention to one pupil means that another lacks. The real class struggle we are taking out against the elections again, but for now I count at least on the support of the Chamber for our small class struggle. The crisis is particularly severe for the elderly whose pensions are being cut. They feel bought by this Prime Minister, who does draw the wallet if banks need to be saved, but who does not do so if thousands of elderly people get into trouble because of a pension reduction. The government pretends that such a pension robbery comes out of the sky, as if taking away a piece of your pension just happens, but of course it doesn't. That's politics. It's about making political choices. It's about wrong rules that this cabinet holds on to, while pension funds have to charge themselves poor. While pension funds achieve higher returns, older people may be reduced and young people will build up fewer pensions. That's crazy. Older people who need care, too, now know what they need in the cabinet. According to Actz (Organisation of care providers), 180 nursing homes have already been closed. The government presents a myth of freedom of choice that means that you can choose to live longer at home. The practice is that you've been forced to live at home for as long as you're sick enough for a nursing home. With so-called kitchen tables, the suggestion of tailor-made work is awakened, whereas for most elderly people these conversations mainly mean that they are being told how much concern they are going to lose in the future. That's what makes people mad. There are nice talk about care, but in practice people just lose their care. Is it weird that people lose faith in the government? Older people just want to know who's looking after them when they need proper care: who's gonna take care of us if we don't get home care anymore and the family's gonna work their asses off to make ends meet? Is it so difficult to ensure that everyone gets good care in one of the richest countries in the world? Of course not. This is about political choices. Ten years ago, market forces were introduced into care, with a central role for health insurers. Waste of premium money is the result. Meanwhile, insurers have billions of premium money on the shelf. That's money from all of us, which doesn't go to health care this way. It is not normal for doctors and institutions to negotiate tariffs and policies endlessly with insurers. It is also not normal for us to go mad again in December with all the commercials of health insurance companies. And it is certainly not normal for the health insurance company to decide for us which medicines we are allowed to take and where we can or cannot get our care. When market forces were introduced, we were promised that care would be cheaper. Ten years ago, care was cheaper than the European average. In the meantime, care is more expensive than the European average. He'd be more efficient. No, I don't. Talk to any doctor or physiotherapist if they can make time for you, because 30% of the time of caregivers goes on forms, accountability, bureaucracy and even more organised distrust. Care would become more accessible. Even if it isn't true. According to the OECD, one in five patients claim to have avoided care because they are afraid of the bill. Those who are not afraid of the bill are the bosses of Plushome. That company made 32.5% profits, and the board turned out tons of profits. This commercial robbery of care money is allowed by the Cabinet, while that goes against the heart of care: helping people because they need it and not because it makes you rich. The SP, together with the CDA and the PvdA, has submitted an initiative proposal to ban distribution of profits by health insurance companies beyond 2017. The SP opts for cooperation in care, unity and honesty, for care money that goes back to care and for a patient who is no longer a milk cow, but a person who needs help as quickly and as well as possible. With a single national healthcare fund, doctors and patients will decide what care is needed. Many doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers have already declared themselves in favour of a national health fund. They want to be able to decide for themselves how to do their job. They are not waiting for the involvement of insurers, and certainly not for the bureaucracy involved. By now, 150,000 people have already expressed their support for the National Health Fund. Those who haven't done that yet: go to nationalzorgfonds.nl and register. As I said, we want to eliminate our own risk. Because why should people who are already unlucky enough to get sick pay a fine of at least €385? Like people choose to get sick. While Secretary of State Van Rijn says he wants to look at abolishing his own risk, his boss, Minister Schippers, calls this system extremely social. Who speaks on behalf of the cabinet now? More than three quarters of the people in the Netherlands support our fight to eliminate their own risk. Fortunately, I am now hearing more and more parties coming our way. Some want to get rid of it, some more parties want to reduce it significantly. That is why I will be tabling a motion tomorrow in which I propose that we stop waiting and come to a substantial reduction in our own risk for next year, in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	I welcome a motion, but when you make these kinds of choices, you generally come up with an amendment, which shows you where you get the money from. I am glad that Mr Roemer is talking about the quality of care, because I think it is a matter of concern to all of us. In recent weeks, however, I have heard him speak mainly of care as a means of redistributing income. My question is very specific: how is Mr Roemer going to cover the 4.3 billion hole that is linked to its own risk, not by motion but by amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	That is the whole amount we are going to take care of when the national health fund is set up. My motion will then deal with the following: if a lot of parties say that they want to reduce their own risk, then I propose to start in 2017. I'm glad you're worried about that, too, so just join us. Then let's start with $100 off, fine. And then more than a billion. Then we get some of that money, for example, from the health insurance companies, where 11 billion is on the shelves. The cabinet is doing the same thing, so let's ask for some of that. Furthermore, we can cut red tape in healthcare. That's more than enough; ask every random nurse how much there is to get there. There's more than enough money to make that happen together, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	Money on the shelves is occasional money. If you don't want to risk your own as a kind of yo-yo going up and down, you're gonna have to cover this in all years. I think all the concerns are justified. It is also election point number 1; if people are asked what the government should pay attention to, that is the concern. But does Mr Roemer not agree with me that these people should be told the story of where these costs end up? At the moment, every family pays about €5,000 in care. What people see are their own risks and premiums. But Mr Roemer's proposal should raise premiums by €285 alone. I just want to know where he's gonna find the leprechauns who're gonna pay for this. So I would like to talk to Mr Roemer about people's legitimate concerns about the quality of care, but that should not be confused with the financing of care, which is only becoming more expensive. If we want to offer quality, we will have to keep people aware of the costs. And let Mr. Roemer think of the following. At the moment, I think 60% of the Dutch pay less than €200 own risk. So they deal with care carefully. With his plan, those people are gonna pay more taxes. What's his answer to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	They handle their own risks carefully? Like getting sick is a choice, Mr. Pechtold. I'm just saying, if you break your hand, you go to a doctor because you need care. That doctor will send you back to a specialist or give you medicine. And then the numerator starts running. All chronically ill and disabled people lost their €385 by the end of January. Your own risk is a fine on being sick. People didn't choose that. Now the answer to your question. We all know that health insurance companies spend half a billion dollars a year on acquisitions. Why don't you go see all the commercials at the beginning of December? That's all money going to commercials and sponsorship, supposedly to make people switch between the four big health insurance companies. That's a waste of bounty money, Mr. Pechtold. All that money doesn't go to the care department, it goes to the health insurance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Pechtold has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	I'm far from finished, Mr. Chairman. He wanted a long list. The removal of this bureaucracy and all this organized mistrust will bring us EUR 1.3 billion. And that's another low estimate, which is actually based only on figures on the bureaucracy in home care at the level of community care. We haven't even mentioned the profits of the pharmaceutical industry. That's where 750 million can be removed. That's all money for the care that doesn't end up there. With market forces, we have seen a sharp increase in the number of levels of management at hospitals. This week, we've had a report that says it's gone up a lot. Those aren't the people at the bed, Mr. Pechtold. That's care money that doesn't end up in care. I'd like to continue. How many consultancy firms don't fill their pockets with huge amounts for leaflets, declarations and advice? That's all money that doesn't go to health care. That's a laundry list, Mr. Pechtold. We can pay for it in this way: abolishing bureaucracy, abolishing the power of health insurance companies and abolishing the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	I object to Mr Roemer coming up with such a far-reaching plan. With that plan he looks back into history, when we had waiting lists, a division and a separation between health insurance and private insured persons. In that case, you're gonna buy your care somewhere else if you can afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr President, may I have a word, I hope. You have now appointed the leprechauns: that is again the managers and the bureaucracy. That is what you said in the previous budget. You also wanted to cut a billion in education, because that could be paid for by reducing bureaucracy. If you come up with such a far-reaching plan, you're gonna come here today with a pass-through, aren't you? You show people where you get the money when you move billions to the leprechauns, right? I would like to respond to you, Mr Roemer. The minister calls it social; you call it antisocial. Secretary of State Van Rijn made it very clear that he would like to focus on the group we are talking about together: the long-term sick. That is a small group that needs targeted policies, without us throwing out billions of dollars here for people who can afford it and who might use it to deal with care costs carefully. 70% of the inhabitants of the Netherlands state in the polls that they understand this, because they say: no, Mr Roemer, you are going too far. Think about it! You give free beer and 70% of the Netherlands say: no, no, Mr Roemer, do not, because that goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Pechtold, it's very...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	I ask you: will we not just say that it is social or antisocial, but will we focus on the problem, namely the situation of the long-term sick? Will we develop targeted policies for this group? Then I would like to go with you: it may cost a little and I would like to help you to find cover for that. I hope you'll let that pass, just like I did. We did, but you didn't. You come here today without counter-proposals and announce motions. No, these are two days in which you not only have to announce that you want financial changes, but also show where you get the money for them. Mr President, I have to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	Self-conception is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yes, that's what they said this morning: keep it short! But yes, passionate about the care talking to Mr. Roemer is a challenge. Shall we focus on the group we are doing it for: the long-term sick? Will we not be harassing the whole of the Netherlands with a system change and a tax increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	If you don't have an answer, you come up with a very long story. Mr Pechtold will prove that again. I have just referred to you for billions of sums, Mr Pechtold, which show where care is going in the wrong direction. Billions. We can make better use of that money. I understand, in your case. Some of your constituents are also making a good living. Let me just say that. Consultancy agencies make good money out of it. We want the money for care to be spent on care as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	Let me see if Mr Roemer has finished his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	No, not by a long shot. I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	Then finish your answer. I shall then give the floor to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	The current system of market forces in healthcare has been in place for ten years, Mr Pechtold. In ten years, care has become more expensive than necessary. It has not become more efficient, as promised, and it has not improved. It's just based on more distrust. Doctors, along with the patients, have nothing more to say in their own office, because the health insurance company looks over their shoulder. Those are all things nobody's looking for. We do want to put an end to this. Care money has to go to care and care is not a market. A doctor is not a producer and a patient is not a consumer, Mr Pechtold. However, that is what you have done with this system. If you pay per operation, you shouldn't think it's crazy that there are more and more transactions. Then you shouldn't find it strange that the care becomes unnecessarily more expensive. We'll put a line through that. This is sufficient to eliminate one's own risk, and it is sufficient to set up a national health fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. Speaking of long answers! It's said it used to be cheaper. Do you remember the time of Els Borst, the waiting lists? What's worse: that we all have to look closely at the money or that you'll have waiting lists and divorcing again? But what I object to is putting each other's supporters down as "the one consists of consultants." Because then you have the red dot hats, so the leprechauns. I regret that Mr Roemer does not agree with my proposal to take up the hand-out of Secretary of State Van Rijn and, in conclusion, simply ask him to come up with a counter-budget for tomorrow. Let all those ideas you have pass on and then see what that means for employment and for the level of taxes and premiums. You are making the whole of the Netherlands pay for a problem that we can solve together if we bring it back to the long-term sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's a shame you just don't want to listen to the answers. The billions we call one-on-one are all accounted for in the past. One-on-one! Then your story about the waiting lists. We used to have waiting lists because the budgets weren't enough. It was your own Minister, Mrs. Borst, who saw and solved that by ensuring that hospitals were given sufficient budget. That's proof that it wasn't the system, it was the budget. There are waiting lists now. Go to any psychiatrist or psychologist. This week there was another hospital that said that we should not treat the patients, because we do not get money from the health insurance company. There are people who have to travel half the Netherlands because they cannot go to their own doctor. That is what we are seeing now, and that is what we are looking forward to putting a line through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	It's nice to hear how everyone chooses their own words. Former Minister Donner came up with the plagues of Egypt and I hear a lot about leprechauns and pointy hats from Mr Pechtold. For example, everyone has their own framework to describe this. I want to talk about a smaller point. The question of how to proceed with its own risk is, of course, a very important point. Also for the SGP, a lower own risk is certainly negotiable if this leads to care avoidance. However, I have a smaller but very important point. Does Mr Roemer also come across those people who think: I do not dare to go to the doctor with my children, because I have heard that this will cost me huge amounts? Or they think: I only have a low income and it's going to cost me a huge amount of personal risk; I don't really dare to go to the family doctor. Does Mr Roemer hear these stories and what is his answer to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	I hear about all the stories, including this one. Unfortunately, some people think that the risk of a visit to the general practitioner also applies. We cannot say enough that, fortunately, that is not the case. It concerns people who have been to the general practitioner and who have been told that the general practitioner is in doubt and that it seems to him or her to be very sensible to refer to a specialist or prescribe medicine. People think, "But wait a minute." Let me give you an example. I ran into a friend with her wrist in connection. I asked what was going on, what happened. She fell on the bike. I said, what's next? She said: I should actually have a picture taken of it, but I didn't do it because I can't afford it. I don't know how that works out for you, but that goes with me through marrow and leg. Care in the Netherlands must be feasible, affordable and accessible to everyone. And if the risk itself is a threshold, apart from the fact that I do not think it is right in principle, then I would like to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	We simply agree on Mr Roemer's concrete example. There are still many possibilities for a payment scheme with health insurers and so on, even at their own risk. The care that is needed must be able to be given. The same research that Mr Roemer just mentioned showed that 68% of Dutch people knew last year that a visit to the general practitioner was not a matter of their own risk, but that this percentage fell to 53. There's a lot of fog about one's own risk. For example, many people do not know that their own risk does not apply to care for minors and that there is a possibility of compensation for low incomes, including for the increase. Is Mr Roemer prepared to name that much more and challenge the government on this point, so that there will be no ghost images around one's own risk? Isn't that our common interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	Removing ghost images is always in everyone's interest, but that is independent of the principle aspect of one's own risk. Its own risk doesn't mean it's gonna be cheaper. You're moving the bill to someone else. I think it is fundamentally wrong that people should be fined for being sick, as if that were a choice. I therefore think it is fundamentally incorrect, apart from the examples I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	That point has been made clear by Mr Roemer, but, as I said, I am going into another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	On that point, I already agreed with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	Is that something Mr Roemer is concerned about? How is it that there is more and more uncertainty about what is rightly not covered by its own risk? What can we do about that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	Until we have eliminated our own risk, I very much agree that we should inform people about the facts as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	I'm a little confused. When it comes to care, Mr Roemer rightly has a point when he says that people are concerned about whether their parents are being well cared for, whether they can choose a general practitioner and whether they have good care in the Netherlands. Anyone can understand those concerns, especially if you have sick friends or relatives. But is a system discussion the solution? I can only hear Mr Roemer talking about systems, big changes and that sort of thing, but it's all about caring for people, isn't it? When we look at the facts, we see that the Dutch healthcare system is among the best in the world and that the costs of the Dutch healthcare system are assessed internationally as efficient. The facts show that the current costs of the Dutch healthcare system, with all that quality, for people with a minimum income are lower than in 2005, when there was a health insurance fund very similar to the national care fund mentioned by Mr Roemer. At present, the cost for someone with a minimum wage is €100 lower than at the time in the sickness fund. Then how can the SP, while talking about caring for people, come up with these comments? The SP is making care more expensive for people with lower incomes. That has nothing to do with solidarity. This has to do with system discussions and batons of a party that do not know exactly what is happening in the system at the moment and what efforts all those people at the bed, all those nurses and all those doctors, are making every day to ensure that very good care is given to all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think Mr Zijlstra is asking a fair question. The fundamental question is whether a change in the system is necessary to improve care. I know the VVD says no to that, but we say yes. We've had market forces in healthcare for ten years now. If we bring it back to the big issue, it's about whether market forces in care have made things better, more efficient, cheaper and fairer or not. We've been doing a whole analysis of what happened for ten years. We now see that there are so many terrible effects in the care that do not make care better. There is one point we both agree on. I'm not talking about the people in care who work with heart and soul to make the care better every day. I am not talking about innovation in healthcare, which is good. Luckily, that means we can do more to help people every time. That is something we want together and what people in care with heart and soul prove every day. However, me and other people, including those who work in the care sector, are failing if the system is going to be obstructive. The system is obstructive because health insurers have far too much power. They've rigged a whole system based on mistrust. The bureaucracy has increased enormously. The cost of management in hospitals has increased enormously. Mr Zijlstra and I should not be pleased that the costs have moved there. Then you can see that people are going to show care-avoidance behavior, because of the system of one's own risk. Of the time people work in health care, 30% goes on filling out forms. Consultancy agencies are going to make money out of that. We now have discussions in the Chamber about whether or not we should allow profits. It's none of our business to let this go. If we really want to improve this, we will not escape a national health fund. Then we can break down the power of health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	I am listening very carefully to Mr Roemer, but I think it is about the system again. I think we have very good care in this country. Is Mr. Roemer trying to cover that up now? Is he trying to put away the work of all those hardworking people, nurses and doctors, in the sense that things aren't going well enough? Because if you think that care is not well organized, that's what you're actually saying. Mr Roemer does not answer the costs. We've had something like a health fund. It was called the health insurance system at the time. That made for division in the care. People with low incomes then had to pay more than they do now. They had the sickness fund and no more than that. Besides, you had people who were privately insured. In England you also have one of those care funds that Mr. Roemer would like. What is the result of that?: Divorce. You have people who cannot afford, for example, to go abroad for a different treatment and people who can afford it. Another consequence we see in the Netherlands: waiting lists, long waiting lists. We do not have all these things in the current healthcare system. I think that's an achievement. Does Mr Roemer intend to overthrow a whole system of care, with all the uncertainty that this entails, in order to eliminate only one's own risk? I would like to start this discussion with Mr Roemer, but this can also be done on the basis of the current system. Is Mr Roemer still considering the cost of all this? If Mr Roemer is serious about this, I have the impression, given his contribution and everything that I see on websites, that this is the case, then surely it is not the case that he is here with nothing in his hands? It doesn't matter if he's standing here with just his text and only comes up with a motion, without a calculated plan? If the SP really wants to work on this, then all the figures have to come on the table. Then we'll take a look at it. If the SP has come up with a brilliant plan, I always look at it constructively, because I'm always in favour of brilliant plans. But then all the figures must be on the table, including the figures that Mr Roemer knows and he is not telling us now. Switching to the SP system costs 23 billion. All that stuff he's mucking under the carpet right now. As far as this debate is concerned, Mr Roemer must either deliver or, with all the figures on the table, when does he come up with them? .............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	Now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	...or he'll have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	I shall go through Mr Zijlstra's remarks one by one. We're not going back to the health insurance. This led to a division, because some of the people were insured through that sickness fund and some of them were privately insured. We don't want that division. That's why we're not going back to the health insurance system. There is now one basic insurance for everyone. Mr Zijlstra always cooks back to that time, but that is not the issue. He doesn't have to say that anymore. We're not suggesting that. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr Zijlstra may give an explanation, but otherwise Mr Roemer will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	Basic insurance means the same for everyone, and no one is allowed to provide supplementary insurance. That is what Mr Roemer says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	If Mr Zijlstra wants to be assured of something that does not belong in the basic package, he has to know it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	Twins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	No, that's not a dichotomy. We now have a comprehensive basic package for everyone. Every care one needs belongs in the basic package. That's what we're gonna do together. Then there is Mr Zijlstra's comment on the waiting lists. I have already made a comment on this in the direction of Mr Pechtold, but unfortunately Mr Zijlstra has not heard it. The waiting lists at the time were caused by a lack of budget. Els Borst took care of that at the time. She acknowledged that at that time there was too little budget for the care that had to be provided. The current system has plenty of waiting lists. Every day we health care professionals complain about waiting lists because they no longer get the resources of the health insurance companies. They put a brake on it. So those waiting lists are now, with this system, an additional reason for wanting to get rid of them. If you go now, Mr Zijlstra, to nationalzorgfonds.nl, you will see all the accounts. All the questions you ask here are there, calculated, calculated and provided with answers. A lot of people who approach us critically and ask how we can do this, go to that page. They see the answers and they're convinced. Yeah, these are political choices. With the same budget we can use a very nice care system, with significantly less bureaucracy and confidence in doctors and nurses, trust that they can do their job and that they are the specialists. That can be done, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have still not heard any response to the fact that the current system is cheaper than the one proposed by Mr Roemer. That turns out to be when you look at history and the facts, but apparently he finds it so difficult that he doesn't get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	Madam President, I object to this! I have already said it three times: before the introduction of market forces, we were below the European average; now we are above it. Get the OECD reports. The implementation costs of this system are 0.7 billion higher than those of another system. These are figures that we do not come up with, but which are confirmed by respected agencies or the OECD and the CPB, I don't care. So just read the pieces, Mr Zijlstra, instead of blaming me here for something that is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u51	It continues to repeat, but I keep repeating that in the old sickness fund someone with a minimum income was cheaper than in the proposal put forward by Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u52	You have torpedoed an income-dependent care premium!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u53	It is my turn now, Mr Roemer. These, too, I think, are just hard figures. If Mr Roemer wants to get out of this discussion... I know the website Mr Roemer refers to. There are indeed figures there. It's neat sticking and cutting of a report here and a report there. If Mr Roemer and the SP really mean this plan and it is not just hollow rhetoric, then it would adorn the SP to have it passed on to the agency we have before, the Central Planning Office. Then it's on the table here, if it's okay today, but it's okay tomorrow. That's what we're used to from the SP. We've seen that before in the General Reviews. Then it's on the table and we can see what's true and what's not true. I'd like to start the discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u54	Well, apparently not!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u55	... but not on the basis of hollow figures, but on the basis of hard figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u56	All that's there is now or in the past one-on-one calculated. I have already given an example of the 1.3 billion that can be cut back on bureaucracy. In fact, I am sure it is much more, because the Central Planning Bureau has only calculated what is being cut back on bureaucracy if we organise home care in a different way. That block alone is already worth 1.3 billion, and I am not even talking about bureaucracy in hospitals. Walk with that for a day and ask any doctor, specialist or nurse what bureaucracy they have there. Then you agree with me that there's plenty to get there. That's all calculated, so don't just have a chat here if you haven't even been on that site yet. Don't make false accusations here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u57	I want to continue on this point, because I share the concern about the care. I agree with Mr Roemer that, for example, benefits in health care do not give a pass and that care is really for people. We share that there are concerns about the availability of care for specific groups. If the SP is so massively committed to a national care fund, if that's a breaking point for a next cabinet, if that's the jumping point in the campaign, then shouldn't it go to the CPB? Then you have to look at the 1.3 billion that Mr Roemer is now saying could be even more, because if you're walking around, you can see that there's more to be done? That has to be passed on, right? We're going to lower our own risk by means of a motion. Mr Pechtold is right to ask for an amendment to be tabled. If that is too much to ask, can we expect a CPB transfer between now and 15 March of the plan submitted by the SP, on employment, on waiting lists, on budgets, on premiums?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u58	That will all be part of the election programme and it will go to the Central Planning Office. So the answer or it can be before 15 March is yes. We are indeed going there, whatever I think of that. Let me now turn to the 1.3 billion that Mr Segers talked about. It's been calculated. We have asked several times for this to be taken into account in a broader context. We didn't get those numbers, nor did we get them from the cabinet. It always runs away from it, because it knows that that is a sensitive point and that it is an Achilles heel in the care. You and I know very well that for everyone who works in the care annoyance is number one bureaucracy. That doesn't come from the sky, I don't think that, I don't make that up, because if you're in the care of a lot of people, you'll hear it every day. So what we've got is settled. However, there is much more to that and I am sure that these amounts will go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u59	It is true that bureaucracy is a thorn in the eye. We have all read Hugo Borst's open letter in the Algemeen Dagblad, which talks about the zips that need to be changed if a simple act is to be carried out. There is a lot of bureaucracy, but it will have to be delivered. That 1.3 billion has to be hardened. Mr Roemer is now loosely suggesting that there is much more to be achieved. Then we're gonna have to have a calculated plan. Is the national health fund concerned with employment, the development of premiums and waiting lists, to be calculated in detail, even for the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u60	Sure. We are an important part of our electoral programme. We still have to make the whole election program and then it goes to all the members. So it remains to be decided, but one thing the members of the party council have already said: the national health fund will be included. That's what I'm afraid to say here. And yes, our election program goes to the CPB and will therefore be passed on for the elections. We are doing this because we think it is important that we now come up with solutions and not only what we have seen so often, but also what we see in healthcare. We see that there are major problems with waiting lists in hospitals, that regional hospitals have to close, that specialists get sky high fees, that there are agencies running away with them and that money is on the shelves. We come here regularly with what the nurse, the doctor, the physiotherapist say. Why? To bring in the sounds of the street and of the workplace here in the Chamber. It is up to a politician like me, now that there are so many problems and there are so many comments to make on the system we have, to indicate that an amendment here or a proposal there is no longer enough, but that we will have to come up with a real solution to deal with these problems. That's what we did. My colleagues Leijten and Van Gerven have been working on this for two or three years, together with people from the field. Parts have been calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. We have come up with proposals for a national health fund. Is there going to be some work to be done on this, to look at it and to discuss it? Of course, because it's a big thing. But we come with it and we have the proposals to make it fairer and to give confidence to the people who work in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u61	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u62	Having a plan is one thing, which very much wants to enter is a second, but a third is very good looking at facts. Between now and 15 March, we will be given a detailed pass-through. I look forward to that. But if it shows that waiting lists are increasing, that budgeting is needed, that employment has a poor development, that it leads to higher premiums, if those facts contradict the plan, then thought cannot stand still. Then it can't be the SP's last word, can it? Surely the facts that are being delivered will have to be the deciding factor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u63	I understand that you are asking that and, of course, no political party has ever stopped thinking, but this is not a plan of yesterday's day. These are things we have seen all the time in recent years and we have started to think about how we can solve these major problems in healthcare. How do we get a doctor to get a patient back in the care room to decide what to do without anyone looking over their shoulders? Why do we see management layers growing everywhere, while hands on the bed have become scarce? Why do we see that in nursing homes nutrition assistants have been cut off, that activity guidance has been cut off? If we see in practice that many people's home care has been cut off, then we are going to think about how we can do it better. And then we're gonna do it. So we have built up these plans in recent years and now there is a well-developed plan. Could it get any better later? No doubt, and I'd be happy to work on that with you. As far as employment is concerned, the following matters are concerned. May I remind you that in recent years 80,000 jobs have disappeared from care? Ask the people on the floor who are on the beds about the workload. We come up with answers, with a future-proof answer, because things have to be different. We see that the money ends up in the pockets of the wrong people, that the bureaucracy increases and that people no longer get or can pay for the care they need. I will fit for that today, tomorrow, on 15 March and that whole period after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u64	In the story of Mr Roemer, two thoughts are fighting for priority in my head: is this now an advertising image of the politician who has invented the best system in the world and says "the rest is crazy," or is someone here making a really good system for care? Let's assume the second. I hear Mr Roemer say: it is possible to create a system in which insurance companies are no longer insurance companies, so that is government in which there are no 80,000 redundancies, in which the waiting lists are gone, in which the premium is fair, in which people who have lost their jobs get them back and in which people get better and fairer care. Suppose that system exists, not just you and I, but the whole Chamber will enter it tomorrow. It is not at all a question of whether the SP has the best system. The question is what is best for the Dutch, for the patient, for the future of care and, if possible, for the citizen. Macro, for the country, is about keeping costs manageable. I agree with that. If such a system is possible, show it and do not talk vaguely about the OECD! There is no SP proposal calculated by the OECD at all. It's gotta be right. If that system is there, we're gonna take a look at it and then we're gonna put it in, too, in the election. I'll tell you what, the whole Chamber, the whole country, cheers. With what you're saying, I can't do anything, and I think it's a shame. With the word "national care fund," I think of only one thing: the English NHS. I'd like to talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr Buma is repeating himself. Check out the National Health Fund and help us develop the system further. I challenge you, Mr Buma. A large part of your constituents want it, too, let that be clear. Many people are worried about the same things I have already mentioned four or five times. In recent years we have on all those parts... In our closets we have on no subject as many calculated plans as on care. That started when Marijnissen was in the Chamber with his two-man group. Agnes Kant took over, just like Renske Leijten and Henk van Gerven. All calculated plans that are also offered. We have put them together and, on the basis of this, presented a new vision that falls very well with the healthcare sector, with the EU KBO, with some of the older people of the Labour Party, with FNV Zorg en Welzijn. Support for the Fund is becoming increasingly widespread. Has it been completely framed? No. We are happy to work together with you and all the other 148 members to achieve this. We need to find out where there are sharp edges or pitfalls. In doing so, we are happy to work with you, but let us at last acknowledge together that a system based on market forces and profit drive is no longer of this age and that such a system does not guarantee that people receive affordable care and that it certainly does not guarantee that we reduce bureaucracy. If we see that together, that is today's big profit. I'd be happy to work with you to work out that new system over the next few years. I agree with you, we're really not gonna make it in one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u66	Here's the problem, I think. Mr Roemer starts by saying that we have to agree that the system is not working. I can tell you, Mr Roemer, that nothing is as bureaucratic as starting to change systems. So that's not wise. Again, if it works, we're gonna look at it, but it doesn't. Earlier this week, as part of the care, I saw a picture of you in shirt sleeves, a circular saw in the hand. In England you have the National Health Service, the NHS. There's no way to pay for that system. The hospitals there are older and worse than here, the costs are higher and there are a lot of private clinics for the rich. I can't make it prettier. I don't want it to be, but it is. If we want care to work well, perhaps it surprises Mr Roemer, but my constituents also want care, then we as politicians must be honest about what can and cannot be done. There is no system that is cheaper and fairer, which can provide more care and provides more jobs and shorter waiting lists. If it existed, we would have used it. If, according to Mr Roemer, it does exist, he should not talk in the vein of "it is on a website." The only one who was honest, I think, was Marijnissen, who said at Pauw at the beginning of this month: there is no plan yet. I am very afraid that there is no such plan and that you do not even know what the consequences of your plan are for the average Dutch person's premium, for the taxes paid by the average Dutchman and for the care he receives. There's no plan. As long as there isn't, you'd better talk about another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u67	Beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u68	This is the circular saw, but it's not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u69	You can easily look away from the concerns that live in care, as Mr Buma does, if you do not want to proceed to an evaluation after ten years and if you do not want to see so much going wrong. Think of the bureaucracy, the waste of money and the power of the pharmaceutical industry and the health insurance companies. If you don't want to see that, fine, then you don't want to see it, but the people who deal with it every day, whether it's the caregivers or the people who need to be cared for, are running into it more and more. If you don't want to see that, too bad. We'll see. We picked up that glove. We have come to the conclusion that if it is not good as it is now, then we must do it in a different way. We've been working on that, with a lot of people from outside the party, people who have to deal with it on the work floor and anyone who wants to participate in making it a much broader front. Also people from your constituency and from those from about all parties here think with it. And why? Because they all see that things have to be different and better. The concern is too bureaucratic, the money goes to the wrong people and the people who need care don't get it. I don't accept that. If you do for the next 20 years, it is your right, Mr Buma, but I do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u70	I hate it as it is said: I do not accept it, but apparently you do. That's just childish, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u71	Come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u72	It's weird, isn't it? The only system you know of.... you should be careful with it.... is: whether you join me or... In America it was once said: you're with us or you're against us. Now listen to what I'm saying. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u74	It's gonna be a tragedy if you change the system like this. Take the bureaucracy. This new system will also require a premium and every doctor will have to justify the actions he has carried out and the pharmaceutical or state will have to develop something. All that doesn't go away. So don't start with a health care fund. I think you've already made this a break point, and the rest of you wonder if it works. Go together to find the mistakes in the current system and also the points of improvement, because they are there, so that we, as politicians, can say to the citizen: this is what we can deliver and, let us be very honest about it, there are also things we cannot deliver. You can and will never deliver what you claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u75	At the end, you said something very interesting. That is actually the crux: it is indeed a political choice whether you want to think only about proposals within the current system or whether you draw the conclusion that it is not the care system but the healthcare system that is too expensive. We have come to that conclusion. We have undoubtedly done this a little earlier than you, because I really believe that you will come with us in the future. I am sure you will say that a few amendments within the current system will never be sufficient to remove market forces from care. That's why you need to start thinking about how you're gonna organize that with something new. I agree with you that you always have to deal with pitfalls, thresholds and things you can't see in advance when you introduce something new. That is true, but it is a fundamental difference of opinion about the question: are we going to change a few things in the current system or have we come to the conclusion that this system is no longer of this time and should we work on something new?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u76	I sincerely appreciate the SP. The SP has a track record in the area of care. Look how long she's been working on it and what good proposals she's coming up with. I also think it is very good that the SP comes up with an alternative to our healthcare system. I've taken a lot of interest in the care fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u78	When I hear colleagues in the Chamber, but also in statements in the media prior to the APB, I hear that there is a great deal of support for eliminating or reducing one's own risk, for tackling the pharmaceutical industry, for reducing market forces when it comes to general practitioners, ggz and physiotherapists and for reducing market forces in healthcare insurers. For example, there should be no distribution of profits to health insurers and fewer policies. Count it up. The only criticism, including me, is that if you want this whole system change and abolish all those health insurance companies, this may sound very tough, but the cost of it could be up to 30 billion. That is the only point in the plan on which I ask Mr Roemer whether he is prepared to think about how all these ideals, which I share with him, will become realizable and how we can actually achieve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u79	It's very simple, Mr. Klaver. I'm glad you asked that question. We're not gonna nationalize or buy anything, but we're gonna make basic insurance a public task. So it's gonna be in the government's office. We'll make something else redundant. That's not buying up or nationalizing. The amounts you mention are not in question. As a result of what I hear outside the microphone, it is a legislative change, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u80	It's a rhetoric thing, but when we discuss a plan, it's about the content. You can say that there will be a national care fund, so the government is going to do something that is now with private insurers, but you're going to take something away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u81	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u82	You'll have to buy out the health insurance companies. We don't know the exact amount, but it costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u83	That's a mistake. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u84	A change in the system involves transition costs, but this has not been taken into account before. We have criticized that together in this cabinet. Nowadays this is taken into account. It takes eight years to realize what you're proposing. Everything I just suggested could be settled within three years, but everything you're proposing takes eight years to realize and costs 6 billion. The only thing I am asking you to do is to reach out to you and see room for manoeuvre at this point. When I look around, I see that there are majorities to be found to make the care better. Instead of going into a stalemate, where people who use care or people who work in care have nothing at all, I ask you if you are willing to do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u85	I'm willing to do anything to get you with me, but you're making one mistake: we're not buying anything. That frame, which is now mentioned, is not on the agenda. At the moment when we put the implementation of a broad basic package to the government, we may make something superfluous that is now in the hands of private, commercial companies. We make that redundant, and that's different from buying up or nationalizing us. If that were the case, you would have been right. However, that is not the issue and is not part of my plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'll give you that as a gift. If this is going to work, then we are still talking about a very large change in the system. Anything that can make people's care right away, we can arrange in a few years. But everything you're proposing is going to take almost ten years. This transition alone costs EUR 6 billion. I am concerned about that, because that money should be given to the district nurse and to all those older people who are not now given proper care and care. You said that you are prepared to do so, and I am pleased to take that up with you to talk about everything, even when it comes to the transition and the question of whether we should buy up all those health insurance companies, with which we are in a system change for eight years. We have to do it right away, Mr. Roemer. People don't have time to wait eight years for improvement. It must be settled in the next cabinet period within two years. I hope I can count on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u87	Well, I hope I can count on you, Mr Klaver, because it is exactly the other way around. We are coming up with the proposal that we should put it down to the public authorities now, and that we should settle it properly. We're not buying out or nationalizing anything. That's not in the plans. I'm glad you said, okay, forget it. That's not the issue either. We will work together, hopefully together with you, to ensure that we do so as quickly and as efficiently as possible. I'm very curious about your proposal, because if we can do it any better, please. Put your signature underneath it and join in, because your constituents are full of these kinds of plans!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u88	I share your analysis of the care and problems in care at the level of one's own risk and the question of how to give people better care rather than all that bureaucracy. I think it is very sensible that you should indicate that there should simply be good basic health insurance. Then there came a trip that I couldn't follow anymore. That was about the organization. You want to nationalize, not by nationalizing the insurance companies but by doing this as a government itself. In concrete terms, this means that you say that 25,000 to 30,000 employees are all losing their jobs with the health insurance companies, because in your system they are not necessary at the time. They may then end up in some kind of public service. In short, we do not solve anything in terms of bureaucracy. Isn't it much wiser to just make good legislation to ensure that health insurers can't make those profits and deliver a package that you don't want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u89	I'd love to. The three of us, together with the Labour Party and the CDA, have tabled an initiative bill on profit distribution. So the answer is yes, but the fundamental difference lies mainly in the power that health insurers have. If you really want to do something about it, there is a lot of bureaucracy and mistrust coming from there. I believe that we are doing so with our proposal and cannot do so in any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u90	The task of the Dutch Parliament and of our government is to ensure that there is a proper separation of powers and a proper distribution of power through checks-and-balances. If the powers are not in balance, for example because the health insurance companies have too much power, you must tackle that power. Then you don't have to deal with that organization; then you have to deal with that power. That is why we are making legislation so that we can achieve it at some point. Then there is no question at all of the weird introduction costs and all the uncertainty of 25,000 people who would lose their jobs in insurance companies. Then we just make sure that there is good health insurance and not a whole new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u91	In fact, this is exactly what we want and what we are going to do. What you are describing is actually exactly what we want to do. That is the fundamental point. If you really want to continue to introduce and expand market forces into healthcare, you'll indeed lay it down with private parties, such as health insurance companies. Then you're done with the whole bureaucracy, the mistrust, the forms and the buying, the whole circus. What should hospitals and health care providers do to buy all these policies, because they have to sign contracts with so many health insurance companies? It drives people crazy. We want an answer to that. That is what we want and that is what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u92	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u93	I note that Mr Roemer would like to transfer the basic insurance to some kind of state service. That doesn't solve anything in terms of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u94	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u95	Yes, as far as basic insurance is concerned, but you rightly indicated that people also want extra insurance, such as cosmetic care. That would be market forces. In that respect, it is therefore a hybrid system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u96	The same applies to car insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u97	Exactly. That is why it is much better to make good regulation. The initiative law you mentioned is a first step. Unfortunately, the Chamber rejected Mrs Leijten's proposal to improve the security of patient files. We need to work on this and not on some new bureaucratic system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u98	We want to get rid of the bureaucratic system. I'd say join us. Then we can do a lot for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u99	I think that what Mr Roemer says has a lot of sympathy in broad parts of the Netherlands, but the question is whether we are tackling the biggest problem fastest. I do not think that this will necessarily happen with the introduction of a whole new system, which is going to take years. I think that insurers' profits should actually go to a lower premium and I am also thinking of their own risk. While you were debating, I just happened to get an e-mail from a man indicating that his wife must have an echo of her liver. As a result of the discussion about his own risk, he asked what the echo cost. It costs €650. That is a risk of their own and they cannot afford it. He's asking what to do now. Of course, who doesn't want an ultrasound of his wife's liver if that's what it takes, but people don't have that money. I am not saying that your plan is wrong, but I am asking whether it would be wise if we had to solve the problems of this woman, for example, or someone with chest pains who is afraid to go to the doctor. I think we can solve this problem of our own risk very quickly. Perhaps a little later next year, but without a system change, we can find an amount that is the same as we are now spending on our own risk, namely development aid. I know you don't like that. Nevertheless, I would suggest that you consider this. You won't need a whole system change, at least not in the short term, and you'll have exactly the same amount. We already spend a lot of money abroad. Then we say: we are not doing the 4 billion now, we are giving that money to our own risk so that the woman who cannot get an ultrasound of her liver or the man with chest pain can be helped as quickly as possible. Would you like to think about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u100	Not about the cover, but you and I know about each other. You are right on one point: if there is a political majority, we can very quickly eliminate our own risk. I would like to correct a misunderstanding: the introduction of a new healthcare system, a new care fund, and the elimination of one's own risk can be seen separately. One doesn't have to wait for the other. Anything we can do to make the care of many people accessible today, I agree directly. We may not agree on coverage, because you are taking it away from development cooperation and I am not going to remove it at all, but the fact that we say together, and hopefully in the near future, a majority of Parliament, that we will at least start reducing our own risk next year will hopefully lead to this being the first thing we can achieve. We really do not need to wait for the system that we would like to see in a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u101	On this important issue, I do not want to make the differences between Mr Roemer's party and the PVV greater than they are, but you cannot disconnect this. His structural cover for abolishing his own risk lies precisely in the profit he intends to gain from the change in the system. I understand that, don't I? He talks about, for example, advertising and other points where there is no alternative, but he uses that cover not for a start next year, but for the structural removal of one's own risk. The possibility of putting one's own risk at zero, and I share that with him, he takes it out of the system change. It's just a question of whether that's gonna work, and if it does, you're gonna have to go through the system change first, otherwise you won't have that profit. I have an alternative to that. For next year, the development aid budget is probably already largely legally invested, as it is called, but we can remove it completely from the electoral programme for the coming years. I hope that Mr Roemer will also want to get rid of his principles, because aid often goes to corrupt countries. It is not the case that development aid is always good and sacred. I saw it when the Chambers Committee visited Mozambique a while ago. At the Ministry where that money arrives, the officials were walking around in Armani suits. That's where our money goes and it's dirty money! If we do that for once, and that is what I mean when I say that he has to step away from his principles... it often goes to corrupt countries and it is not spent on the people who need it. If we take it out of there and spend it on the people of the Netherlands, then we can do it without a system change, at least, we do not have to wait for that. We can do that and we can help those people tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u102	I know that you are indeed not looking beyond the Dutch border when it comes to helping people. We'll do that. A socialist is an internationalist. It does affect me when I see what is happening elsewhere in the world. I feel co-responsible to seek solutions when people are in need or have systems that are not right. I share with you that if money ends up in the wrong places, you have to deal with it first. However, I am not going to interfere with development cooperation. I want to improve it wherever it's possible. Without discussing whether or not the money should come from development cooperation, we can start a substantial reduction in our own contribution this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u103	I stand here with some hesitation, because the concern is a serious issue that people have serious questions about. I know Mr Roemer as a serious politician. I would therefore like to have a real discussion on his proposals. I waited for a moment because I was hoping that colleagues would clarify the precise nature of the proposals, but that was not the case. Mr Roemer pointed out that his plan had been passed on. There is only one plan by Mr Roemer, from the SP, which concerned the premium and the own risk. Do you remember how much tax people would have to pay from the minimum income according to your proposal, calculated by the CPB?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr Samsom again tries to make a story of it with all kinds of details, things and figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u105	You mentioned self-risk and people's taxation is not a detail. That's what you talk about every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u106	Yes, but together, before the elections, we made numerous proposals to make it an income-dependent care premium. You let it go on your own. Don't blame me for having no solution to the problems that your cabinet has contributed to. Mr. Samsom, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u107	I don't blame you at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u108	Don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u109	Some of the older people in the Labour Party are now convinced and join us. The only name I'm missing is yours. Wherever we can do better, we're gonna do better, but don't make a game out of it in the sense of a dime here and a dime there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u110	It's not about dimes. You keep saying that it's about big things, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u111	Well, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u112	Let's not be you-baking. I asked you a question. You've passed on one proposal. I am not sure what the consequences of your serious proposals are for the Netherlands, because I think that people are just entitled to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u113	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u114	So I'm just asking you a question. That is what this debate is for. Part of your plan is about the financing, the own risk. We've been talking about that for two days, so I don't think that's a detail. You've had something like this passed on, and my question is whether it's still the same. How much tax will people, according to your proposal, pay from that point on from the minimum wage, namely €20,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u115	You can't say that at the moment because it's a different story for everyone. There are several things we've been doing together, Mr. Samsom. Yeah, if you're gonna get these really nice things and these little things out... we're not gonna fall for that anymore, Mr. Samsom. We have seen with you that it is not right. We have seen with you that the income-dependent care premium could be a solution. You're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr Roemer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had several parts passed on, and you say that we had one part passed on, namely, the part of the bureaucracy in the area of home care: calculated and all. You can try to play games with it, but I'd say you're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u118	I don't play games. I'm trying to figure out what this means for the Netherlands. I'm sighing a little, 'cause here we go again. You have a proposal and you are scattering sums that you say have been passed on. Today we have an iPad for the public, and it's bloody annoying that everyone is sitting on it, but now it's just as handy and I couldn't find anything on it. On your website nationalzorgfonds.nl I like to advertise if it's a good proposal I couldn't find anything about bank transfers. Yeah, I could only find one. I ask you a simple question about this because it has a relationship with the proposal you seem to be making tomorrow. I have not yet seen any support for this either. So let's not play games. I'm just asking you what the consequences of your proposal are. The last time you passed it on, it wasn't about a little thing or a little thing. From the minimum wage, starting at €20,000, you pay 50% tax at the SP for each extra euro. That's a lot. I'm sure you'll agree with me. I'm looking for a better solution. The plan is of 20 August 2015. It's been calculated by you, too. Ah, I have to do it with Mrs. Leijten. She says it's a different plan. Then I think my question is double-relevant. Because I'd like to think along with you. Then what is the basis of that other plan according to which people are not going to pay 50% tax? Where's your proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u119	I just gave a complete list with a low estimate to our plans...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u120	I'd almost make an order proposal. You've listed a whole list. That's right, and I wrote with you. None of these amounts has been calculated by the CPB as a plan for the SP or as another separate proposal, Mr Roemer. The only proposals that have been passed on are those that your party and our party put forward a few months ago. This shows, among other things, that the transition to a healthcare fund costs EUR 6 billion. I didn't hear you mention that amount. I've heard you mention amounts. Then get them together with the CPB bill. Then we know what we're talking about. Mr Roemer, these are serious proposals and we are serious politicians. Then we should be able to talk about this in a serious way. Otherwise it's gonna be free beer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u121	If you look at the care, and Mr Samsom does that to me very often, you will see that the bureaucracy has increased by 30% for many caregivers. If you then look in the Centraal Planbureau's pass-through at what the abolition of some sort of bureaucratic home care and the conversion into a neighborhood care system brings with it less bureaucracy, then you will see that this, calculated and calculated, yields EUR 1.3 billion. If I were to do that about all the concern and say that it would be more, I would speculate; I agree with Mr Samsom on that. I'm not speculating right now. So I am putting it to 1.3 billion in support, while Mr Samsom and I know exactly that this amount is higher. It's been calculated and all. If we come here with agreements to make care much better, you will first of all tell us what the system should comply with in order to address the negative effects of the current system. You can all say that it is not 100% ready and that it has not yet been calculated 100%. That's absolutely true. We are launching a new system that is more sound than the present one, because we, and Mr Samsom, see what happens in care, what happens with salaries, what happens with consultancy and with the power of health insurers. We want to do something about this and we have initiated it today. That is what we are going to work out in the coming years, and I hope that we will do so together with the Labour Party. She always talks nicely, so 'it should indeed be more efficient' and 'it should have less bureaucracy'. Then join in instead of trying to catch politicians on a few things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u122	A few things? Mr Roemer has not given any impetus here, he has been breaking down the tent about his own risk for two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u123	Yes, you're right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr Roemer has a proposal, an idea, an incentive to reduce one's own risk. I would remind him that when he did so last time, taxes for people with minimum wage or more went up sharply. I am now asking him for the other proposal. Then do not come up with half a coverage, Mr Roemer, or with self-speculated coverage, or with a neighborhood care proposal that was also of a different character. Just do as is customary here and as it works. If you have a serious proposal, you will support it in a serious way and then we will talk about it. Otherwise, it will remain a ghost game and you will continue to say that it is about things. You underestimate the problem yourself. This is about something important, and I want to be able to talk about it in an important way. Last time it was halfway through your term, or maybe halfway through the day, so that's all possible. I would ask you once again: are you prepared to put the figures you say you have on paper for us and provide a basis for that by the CPB so that we can talk in a serious way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u125	We can talk in a serious way if you agree with me that we can already work on reducing our own risk. It is very nice that you say in the media that it should actually be lowered, but here you are abandoning. It's a lot of fun when the Secretary of State says the risk has to be reduced. Let us take care of that together. The cabinet itself takes into account that it can get 2 billion from the health insurance companies, because it writes that the premiums do not go up. It's up to you. Is it so weird that we say 'let's get at least half a billion from those same health insurance companies, who also think that their own risk is too high, to ensure that we can substantially reduce our own risk already this year', if you do not agree with tackling the pharmaceutical industry a little harder next year or with tackling bureaucracy a little harder? That's where the cover's gonna be. We can take care of that together tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr Pechtold, a brief interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u127	After this whole round, I truly wonder why the SP is so out of play. People think "this is about the first election debate," but what they expect us to do after the last few years is to show us where we can work together in the run-up to the elections. Everyone really, from left to right, says to you, "Don't go into a ridiculously expensive system change." One says it lasts eight years and the other says it's priceless. If you rightly care about long-term sick people, Mr Roemer, and want to improve the quality and accessibility of care and do something about the personal risk of the target group mentioned, why are you linking it, making it a breaking point for your own party out of play? Even the Secretary of State says: that's interesting, I even want to look at it in the short term. Then the SP is right, then she's talking about things and things, then she's found funding called "things and things," but the SP doesn't reach anything. Now let's work together; that's what the people are asking of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u128	We don't do anything else. Even your own party colleague, Mr Terlouw, is enthusiastic about our proposal. I've seen this before in history. When we proposed to do something about the top salaries in the public sector, we were alone. We were supposed to be jealous, and it wasn't possible. In the meantime, the whole Chamber is convinced that the grabs in the public sector had to be dealt with and we have agreed to do so. Yeah, we're in the lead a lot. Then we see that things in society don't go as they should. The same goes for the care, Mr. Pechtold. We see that it is not right if the power of health insurers is so immense that they look over their shoulders in the office, if it does not allow people to receive the medicines they actually need, if the bureaucracy is so intense that a psychiatrist is doing 30% of his time filling out forms. We see that none of this is right, and most of your own supporters think it is right. We then stand up and initiate a better system to deal with all these things. You can mention a hundred things whose effects still have to be fully investigated and which need to get better, but I'll give them to you for free and for nothing. Let's take that step with a new cabinet. And indeed, this is a very important spearhead for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u129	Then it's important to work together. People are asking for that, too. But if, as a way of kicking off the elections, you say for days that you will not work with anyone who is not for your healthcare fund, which Terlouw is not for; he is against market forces, but that is something else, and if you add that to your own risk, then none of those improvements will go on. It is right that you want these improvements, because I see them too. For example, the taking of doctors as an employed person is fine with me. I'd like to talk to you about that, but you'll have to work together. When the money's with others, you say, "They're grabbers." Now you're doing the same thing. But when we ask you about that, you say: don't ask about things and things. Come on, it's about the same money, but you too have to deliver. We have yet again made a counter-budget for today, with which we want to shift the focus. You're tambourizing at what you want, but you're not delivering the facts that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u130	It will indeed be a matter of repeating itself. We note that care is not sound. We are coming up with an incentive to actually solve the problems. I would have preferred you to say: yes, we are going to think along, because as it is now, it is not right. Then I say, put your name under it and join us. It's not just ours. A large part of society is already participating in the National Health Fund and wants to go all that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u131	People don't even know what that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u132	They know very well what that is, Mr. Pechtold. You refuse to listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u133	Is that the English model? Is that the old Dutch model, the one with the health insurance fund, where you had that twin? Someone just said it. Do you know what was in the office then? A sign saying, "5 minutes for sickness fund, 10 minutes for private individuals."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u134	If you don't want to hear it three times, I can tell you five times, but it's really gonna stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u135	Do you remember when there were flights through that system to London, because of the waiting lists here for simple operations? So if we're gonna do scare-making, we can look back, too. I'm asking you to work together. If left to right you ask now how you calculate this, how you do it, but you deliver nothing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u136	We deliver what you ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u137	...you shouldn't say that others are inadequate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u138	Don't you want to get mixed up? It's not possible to follow otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u139	My final question, Mr President. It is no longer called a "break point" but a "speech point"; I must say that that sounds better already. But let's work together. Let us all do what we can and must do for the long-term sick. But don't throw a system change through this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u140	The main gain of this debate is that I have heard from almost all parties that there is a great deal to be done about the current system. That's a big profit. We are giving an incentive to do something about the power of health insurers, to remove that organised distrust, to stop the waste of money, to tackle the power of the pharmaceutical industry. When others say that, too, that's the biggest profit. Yes, in my opinion and our conviction, our initiative is the solution to achieve in the coming years a concern that is feasible, affordable and well-organised for everyone. And then we can say for the third time that we are going to return to the health insurance fund, but if we do not go to a health insurance fund or private insurance. We go to one broad basic package, which is organized by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr Zijlstra, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u142	You're gonna sit home sick and watch this. This is about systems and technology, but it's about caring for those people. We are only talking about systems here. That's... well, never mind. I'm gonna try one more time. I always want to discuss with the SP what is good in the system and what can be better. If Mr Roemer can come up with a better system, I want to look at it, but I need to know what that is. I'm totally confused right now. Mrs Leijten says that there is a different plan on the website than Mr Roemer is talking about. There is only one way to clarify this. Everyone has tried; I'm still trying hard. Mr. Roemer says he's had everything processed. I don't see that on the website, but I'll take it from him. If he's done the math, he'll be able to deliver anything at the press of a button today. My question to Mr Roemer is: are you going to deliver everything today, or are you not going to do so because it may not be true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u143	This is your fifth attempt to ask for something that I have already given a good answer to five times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u144	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yes, it is, Mr Zijlstra. You don't want to hear it because you don't want to get rid of this system. It's okay. It may be that we make a fundamentally different choice. We are launching the implementation of a broad basic package, not with commercial care providers, but with the government. That is at the heart of our proposal. We indicate where the waste in the care is based on numerous reports from the interior, from abroad, from here, from the Central Plaza Office. You have all these reports, or at least your group has them all. Those reports indicate how much it could yield. If I give you an example of bureaucracy, it is indeed a limited example. The CPB has calculated what the cost of bureaucracy would be if we converted home care into a system of community care, in which there is no suspicion and with which we put the responsibility of care to the district nurse. That's already worth 1.3 billion. You can say you want more. I'd love to! If the entire electoral program is at the Central Planning Office, everything will be calculated. Think with me. You want to play down every time that there is money to be raised from all those desks that suddenly all see opportunities to so-called advise on how to declare as smartly as possible in order to make healthcare in hospitals more expensive. I'm sure you've seen Lubach's program. I wasn't happy about that, not who married whom, but especially not about the fact that agencies are able to advise so that the declaration costs go up. I think that's morally awful across the border. You're asking me exactly what it's gonna get you. I don't know, but I'm sure it'll pay off. If we do not want that kind of characteristics of care, as it is now organised, we must organise care differently. I am not just saying what is not right, or else I am being blamed for it, that I am just saying what is not right, but also what I do want. So we come up with an incentive to put that part down in the government and to take it away from commercial health insurance companies, because that is where it does not belong in the future as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u146	Finally, because I'm not gonna get the answer. It helps the discussion to put things on the table so that everyone can see exactly how it is going to be, but apparently that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u147	Nationalzorgfonds.nl says how far we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u148	I'll give you a couple of sketches. Mr Roemer points out that a lot of money can be saved by reducing bureaucracy. I think that every Dutchman who hears that we are going to fight bureaucracy with more government knows that this is not very credible. More government usually does not lead to less bureaucracy. I would like to underline a second point. The first time I interrupted Mr Roemer, he was very clear. He clearly said that there would be basic insurance for all Dutch people and that you would have to pay for it yourself if you wanted more. This means that we go back to the situation where people with a small stock exchange get basic care and people with a big scholarship fly abroad to get better care there. That's not the concern the VVD wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u149	This has to do with the fact that in recent years you have done nothing but undress the basic package. There's been more and more going out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u150	I listened with great annoyance to all those reluctant accountants here on the interrupting microphone. If cooperation and political vision mean that we all walk to the CPB and let everything pass through, then I think that is a great poverty. In addition, ten years ago, the market forces in healthcare were all neatly calculated by the CPB. Look where we are now! What is important in this health crisis is that we create another system that will ensure fair and social care. We're gonna have to change that. I very much agree with Mr Roemer on that point. That is why I think it is a pity that Mr Roemer should be included in the accounting debate which is supposed to be the subject of serious politics. I'd really like to talk about other things. I would indeed very much like to talk about how we can make care cheaper and better. We are talking mainly about prevention. I would like to put the content first here. Prevention! If we really want to get health care better, we as a government will have to focus on a healthier lifestyle. We need to focus on healthier nutrition and healthier canteens in schools. Does Mr Roemer think that we should focus on this and that too little is being said about it here in this House?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u151	Let me begin by saying that I very much agree with Mrs Thieme's introduction. It's not a matter of securing. When you see things in society, it requires changes. We have taken up this gauntlet, and we are proposing a fundamental change to it, so that we can make care accessible to everyone without a bump of bureaucracy. Then there is the second point. The most important thing in the care is to prevent people from getting sick. Prevention is a very important element. Because healthy nutrition and more sports do a man miracles. I've just been talking from my own experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u152	Sure, but it stays very quiet in that area from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u153	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u154	Is it not very important to ensure that advertising of unhealthy food for children is banned? Should we not ensure that child marketing is dealt with, because it also enables us to tackle obesity in children? Does Mr Roemer agree with me that we should ask this cabinet to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u155	I think we are very much in agreement in this area on many fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Roemer, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u157	Something has gone terribly wrong with the way this Prime Minister has dealt with the crisis over the past six years. Just when the machine was in danger of falling silent, the cabinet shut down the fuel supply, with dramatic consequences. The 50 billion in cuts have left a battlefield on many fronts. The crisis was deeper than necessary and lasted longer than necessary. I warned the Prime Minister in 2010 that a fragile economy is like a plant. You need to water that. But the Prime Minister came up with a huge pruning shear. In the meantime, you can read in the newspaper on a daily basis that this austerity policy has worked out disastrously. It has slowed down the growth of the economy, lost over 350 000 full-time jobs, and wages have been unnecessarily far behind. Even now that a cautious recovery is taking place, the cabinet chooses to allow the highest incomes to benefit most. That is why we, together with GroenLinks, are proposing to use the bonus for the highest incomes in the last year for some extra money for middle incomes and low incomes. In twenty years' time, VVD cabinets have rigged up an economy that is ideal for my friends from the Quote and their top 500, but which has become less and less for employees. A much smaller part of our common income now belongs to the working people. Work has become uncertain and the number of flex contracts has grown enormously. That doesn't make anyone any better, not even the companies. The disposable income has fallen for all Dutch since 2005, except for the 20% richest Dutch, the Prime Minister's friends. The Prime Minister says that people who work hard can earn well, but the people who worked hard in the police or in education all got the zero line at the beginning of the period. Doesn't he think those people work hard enough? The crisis has also left its mark on small and medium-sized enterprises. Many companies have been unnecessarily bankrupt. Many small businesses still suffer from the effects of the crisis, but also from the policy of this cabinet. While small and medium-sized enterprises are the largest employer in the Netherlands. Last year Mr Zijlstra and I had already received a motion on the payment of sick staff for small businesses. Our initiative law entered into force on 1 July. In fact, we had jointly tabled an initiative proposal to tackle acquisition fraud. But more needs to be done. Think of paying bills on time by the government, setting up a national investment bank, improving procurement conditions so that small and medium-sized enterprises are more quickly eligible for contracts, and so on. This year the SP has developed 50 concrete proposals on SMEs and brought them together in 100% Heart for the Cause. I assume the Prime Minister knows that report by now. I'm asking him for a response to that. Living together isn't the only thing you do. The cabinet talks about standards and values, but whose standards and whose values is the government defending? If you can't find a job because of your last name, the Prime Minister says you're gonna have to fight. If you lose your job at a later age, you get a shorter WW, while age discrimination is not done. If you have a disability, Mrs Klijnsma will re-examine you for the umpteenth time and you will end up in welfare with a bit of bad luck afterwards. If you're a multinational, the Zuidas is open to you. Then you rent a mailbox and avoid taxes. But if you're a hardworkingzzp'er, you can't even pay your pension premium or important insurance. Self-enrichment for an elite of multinationals and punishing people who have been less fortunate; at least these are not the standards and values of the SP. The Minister of Finance says he's worried about the grabbing at the top of big companies. It is good that he says that, but I read in the documents we are discussing today, not what his specific proposals are. I like to hear them. While the number of millionaires has increased considerably, one in eight children grew up in poverty in 2014. Poverty is also increasing among the working population. The number of people in debt is growing explosively, not because those people can't handle money, but simply because life is too expensive for them. There are higher rents, more care costs and a growth in the number of low-income people. Young people who are now growing up with a disability will never be able to work in a social workplace again. People in welfare should jump from this cabinet through ever higher hoops, as if they had caused the crisis, as if there were enough work for them. Working without wages, discounts, pointless applications or humiliating chores; these people are being soldered. The policy of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is a tragedy for the most difficult people. Under the direction of the Minister of Rent Increase and Waiting Lists, the attack on the tenant was opened. Social rentals and rents in the free sector have increased considerably in recent years. More than 1.3 million people depend on a rent allowance. This number is still growing. In ten years it has risen by 32%, both because of rent increases and because of income reductions. What's the Prime Minister gonna do for these tenants? The cabinet has made sure that the construction of affordable rental homes has remained significantly behind. That's no wonder if you take 1.7 billion of the money to build social housing from corporations or sell it as rental homes, as happened 23,000 times in 2014. More and more tenants are getting into financial trouble. This applies not only to low incomes but also to middle incomes today. Where should people who earn too much to be allowed to live in social housing, but who earn too little to qualify for a mortgage, according to the Minister? How many of these people fall between shore and ship? When will the landlord tax finally be converted into an investment obligation, so that waiting lists can be reduced and housing can be renovated and made energy efficient? We will have to take major steps towards a sustainable economy. This is not always easy in a country with many people, many animals, many cars and a lot of energy-slurping industry. The climate law of GroenLinks and the PvdA is a good initiative on the way to a sustainable society. The Energy Agreement can help, but is the money well spent in this respect? If we stick 1.5 billion in coal-fired power stations with American and Canadian wood chips, we will question that. We support wind at sea and on land where there is sufficient support. So set not only technical, but also social goals. Take care of that cover, but also get support. Most people really want to. In Groningen people have been waiting for a clear message from The Hague for years. The misery of the victims of the earthquakes in Groningen is great. Families sleep with a stuffed suitcase under the stairs to get away quickly if they have to. The damage in the area is enormous. The handling is often a tragedy. Therefore, put the interests of the Groningen people first, not those of the energy giants who want to keep pumping. People and houses first and not the profits of the NAM. In the budget, additional money will still be made available for Security and Justice. That's great news. Now hope that the receipts do not lose, but the prestige project of the VVD, one Ministry of Security and Justice, has failed, while the VVD considered this ministry so important that four directors had to be set up. The ministry is too large, there is poor cooperation and information often reaches the Chamber too late and not completely. Not only receipts, but also rulers often disappear. The cuts in recent years have struck a crater. There are 2,500 fewer cops on the street in 2021 compared to now. Half of all police stations close and a cop works on a computer these days, pretty much from the Flintstones era. When a cop comes out, he's gonna have to go for reports of confused people because this cabinet has knifed the mental health care system. After years of budget cuts on access to justice, social lawyers quit. For many people with low and middle incomes and for SMEs, it is too expensive to go to court. If you can only go to court with a big wallet, it's called class justice. People can also obtain their rights outside the courts, for example in dispute committees. A donkey usually doesn't hit the same stone twice, you'd say, but the Minister of Security and Justice does. Last year he tried to cancel the subsidy for the Consumer Disputes Committee. The Chamber stood down for that just about unanimously. The SP amendment was adopted. I think it is a mistake that the Minister is trying to kill the dispute committees again this year. I'll ask the Prime Minister if that's true. We would like this to be repaired. A low-threshold way to get you out of court is to cherish and not delete. We cannot separate the problems in the Netherlands from conflicts across borders. A devastating war has been raging in Syria for years, resulting in hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees. There are still military interventions that do not bring the solution any closer. The people in Syria need bread, not bombs. The war in Syria is complicated enough. Everyone pretty much fights everyone. The SP is therefore deeply concerned that the ceasefire appears to have already failed. We cannot accept that Turkey also has a double agenda in the fight against the Kurds. Does the Prime Minister share our view that Turkish action in northern Syria should be condemned and that Turkish tanks should be returned to Turkey? People in the Netherlands are worried. Many people are concerned about the fate of refugees and are concerned about the dangerous conditions in which these people must survive. The first step is, of course, to put an end to the lingering conflicts, however difficult that may be. There is an important task for the Netherlands. In addition, we will also have to support the region, in order to best accommodate refugees in camps where they can also work on their future. Enough food, enough drinking, education for the children: it is far from there. And even if it was, we're not there yet. We will have to assume our responsibilities where people flee war and violence, especially when it comes to vulnerable children. Then we take responsibility, and I had hoped that the cabinet would do the same. On the other hand, many people are concerned about what the arrival of refugees means to our country, whether we can take people well, whether there are enough homes for everyone, and whether newcomers can integrate well into our society. Small-scale reception, support, sufficient housing, language lessons and good guidance in integration are required. We need to work harder on that. In March, voters will be expressing their views on the future of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u158	Does Mr Roemer not think that a lot of Dutch people, including a lot of SP voters, will agree that it is enough with the support of the SP for the eternal reception of more and more asylum seekers, adults, children, illegals and extra care? Aren't you worried about that, Mr. Roemer? Don't you worry that people, as well as your constituents, will think: last year 60,000, poohpuh, that should be a little less? And you're gonna put ten more shovels on top of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u159	My party and I are deeply concerned about anyone who is in the situation of having to flee. There is no need for that, Mr Wilders. I don't want to remind you, but you were also in the front line when it was about more bombs in the Middle East. You even lined up in the front line to bomb countries like Iran extra. It would have been even more refugees. I'm not gonna look away. Nobody leaves their home and their fireplace just because they like it. And yes, then it is a joint international responsibility, including from the Netherlands, to help people in need. I'll do it today, and I'll do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u160	But they're not refugees! They are migrants, who have been here so many times before they arrived in the Netherlands, through seven safe countries. They are in a region where countries like Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States have received zero people! They don't have Emile Roemers there. There they are a little bit smarter in that respect than we are. What you're doing is opening the border even more. I've been looking up the track record of the SP lately. Not only does your colleague, and you now too, say that we need to include more children from Calais. In motions for resolutions, you have called for the resettlement of more refugees from Turkey in the Netherlands. You have even tabled motions to allow war criminals, so-called 1F'ers, to enter the Netherlands. You think extra care should go to those people. You are probably going to vote against the law that abolishes the priority of asylum seekers, of status holders on rental homes. You're against that. You think these people should be favoured. You're in favour of illegal shelter. You are the refugee party of the Netherlands! Why would you do that? The Netherlands has had enough of that, regardless of any financial consequences. All money, Mr. Roemer, that we could have spent on caring for Dutch people, your beautiful favourite theme. Why don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr Wilders, I find it quite remarkable and really shocking that you say: let them solve it all over there, let them figure it out. There and there is another country, and we do nothing. I find that shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u162	"Don't do anything"? 60,000!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u163	It's your right to have that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u164	60,000 in one year!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr Roemer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u166	It is your right to have that opinion. I am proud that my group does not. Then there is a second point. Yes, if we take people here, everyone is entitled to adequate housing. If we had followed you, Mr Wilders, 75% of all rentals would have been sold. That scarcity is not because of the person who comes here as a refugee or the person who's been on a waiting list here for ten years. This scarcity is the result of years of incorrect policies on the rental site. You have contributed to this, Mr Wilders, both in your election programme and in your Rutte I period. We only sold rentals in that period. I wouldn't like to divide up a shortage either, but my solution is to get enough affordable rentals, because then we don't have to turn those two groups of people against each other, as if they or one of those two groups were guilty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u167	I understand, the PVV did it. We shut down the rentals, we bombed Iraq and what else they did. But the facts, Mr Roemer, are that you are abandoning the Dutch and your own voters in a great way, that you are letting in tens of thousands of people and that you have the nerve to say here today that we in the Netherlands are doing nothing, while we have broken record after record in asylum flow. Last year, 60,000 people entered the Netherlands. If they make two or three family members come across in the coming years, we are talking about a few hundred thousand people who are not integrated, who we will see later on at Search Requested and who are going to cost us money. An extra hospital for them is now being established in Enschede. Speaking of expenses! And all you're saying is more, more, more. What a non-binding chat to talk about more money for care, while you sell our country to asylum seekers and fortune seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u168	I just called it shocking. If you are partly responsible, if you are in favour of releasing tens of thousands of bombs on parts of the Middle East and then looking away when whole groups of people are fleeing, I find that shocking. Our solution is indeed not to throw bombs, but to work. The Netherlands has always had a record when it comes to diplomacy. Let's use it a lot more to get those fireplaces down. That's the only way to make sure people don't need to run. The moment I see children, neglected, abused and all, I am proud of my people who say: we are not looking away, we are going to do something about it. I am also the first to say, with a number of other parties, that this is such a subject that you really should take on board with other countries in Europe. I also see that a number of countries are lagging behind and are not doing so, and I am also annoyed by that, but that is no reason for me to say that I will abandon them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u169	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u170	There is only one who throws bombs and that is Mr Roemer and he throws a mega bomb on the Netherlands. That is what you are doing, Mr Roemer. You leave the boundaries open. You say that the asylum seekers, the status holders, can simply take priority when it comes to social housing. That's what you're saying. You accept that the asylum seeker has no own risk in the Netherlands, does not have to pay his own contribution and does not have to provide additional insurance for the dentist. It gets everything for free, while the SP-chooser has its own risk, has to pay his own contribution and has to be insured. That voter sees that Mr Roemer lets them all in, the lucky seekers from Africa, from safe countries and that they get everything for free. I don't think your voter will appreciate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u171	We'll wait and see. Mr. Chairman. In March, the electorate will speak about the future of our country and what kind of country we want to live in. Is that indeed that country of Prime Minister Rutte where divisions and contradictions continue to increase, or is that a country for all Dutch people? Is that a country where a privileged elite is the service, or is that a country where we all have influence? We have to get away from the country that explains the red carpet to the Apples and the Starbucks of this world, but it does not dare to ask these companies to make a fair contribution. I want to get away from the country where we have to compete with each other all the time and on the way to a country where we live and work together, a social country with a cleaner and sustainable economy and a shared future with equal opportunities, a country where workers can get a fixed contract and be rewarded for their commitment, a country where tenants get what they need to say about what's going on in their corporation. Finally, they pay rents, a country where young people like them can buy a house and build a future, a country where students and teachers who are now powerless to face the solar king in the boardroom, get participation, a country where older people don't have to be afraid to spend their last years without care and support. The Netherlands can become a country in which everyone participates and can feel at home. A country in which we stand up when we see that ghetto formation, discrimination and racism separate people. The fight against racism and discrimination goes hand in hand with the fight against social exploitation. We have to make a fist against that together. The Netherlands can become a country in which you are not judged by your origins but by your commitment. A country in which we discuss and argue about every opinion, but respect each other's beliefs. A country where there is certainty that if you work hard, it will make you better. A country in which you can trust that politics is there for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Roemer. The Segers have another question. Very briefly, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u173	That depends on Mr Roemer's reply, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u174	It also depends on your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u175	Against segregation. Against division. One country. Those are very nice words to close with. At the same time, the SP Group has made the link between segregation and special education in recent weeks. Can Mr Roemer show me studies in which this link between segregation and special education is demonstrated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u176	I'm sure. I will ask if they can be emailed to you personally. It is not so difficult to see that some schools are standing with their backs to society. We shouldn't want that with each other. When children get in contact with others at school, it promotes integration. You don't have to be a scholar to assume that. Where that does not happen, you should come up with proposals together with school authorities, municipalities and housing corporations to prevent segregation and to get more mixed neighbourhoods. Schools must be a real reflection of the neighborhood in which they stand. I think that's a fantastic ambition. I myself worked in schools where that was done excellently. That is really worth it, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u177	Research has been done. The Council of State and the Education Council have looked into it. They say: there is no relationship between segregation and the freedom of education. At the same time, the SP Group places 4,500 schools in the suspect bank because they would be partly guilty of segregation. That's not true! Take the school I have a special band with: the Beatrix School in the Schilderswijk, a difficult district. It's a Protestant-Christian school, pronounced Christian. All colors, all nationalities, all backgrounds are present. The SP Group says of this: we want to abolish the freedom to set up that school, to commit ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u178	I do not think that any party has talked about undermining the freedom to set up schools. We constantly oppose the fact that in some schools there is no reflection of society. They're in neighborhoods where they're not wanted. I myself have been in the Schilderswijk with the whole group. If you ask the people in the Schilderswijk themselves what they think about it, they are generally very proud of their neighborhood. However, they also say: the composition in our neighborhood is no good; we would have liked to have seen more Dutch people living in our neighborhood, to name but a few. If these people say so themselves, I don't care. Not because they are incredibly good at making the best of it in their neighborhood, because they do so and are proud of their neighborhood. I ask the schools and the municipalities to ensure more mixed neighbourhoods, so that it will be more balanced in the coming years. After all, the more you deal with each other from a small point of view, the more respect and understanding there is for each other and the less fear of the strange. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u179	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u180	I'm in favour of mixed neighborhoods, I'm in favour of diversity, I'm in favour of schools that reflect the neighborhood. But there are, and that is not achieved by abolishing the freedom of education, the freedom of choice of parents. Those arguments have indeed been made by your group. In the Schilderswijk, public education and Christian education are closely linked. It is up to parents to keep that freedom of choice, use it and choose the school that suits them. You place 4,500 schools, including the Beatrix School, in the suspect bank if you consistently link segregation to special education. There's no link.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u181	I object to this: we are not putting anyone in a suspect bank; we are calling for a fairer division of the neighbourhoods so that there can be more fusion in our society. You and I really know examples of where we can do better and better. We're not forcing anyone. We are not taking anyone by the collar with the statement "you must get out of there; you must go there." However, you can develop policies to promote this in schools, school boards and municipalities in the coming years. That is what we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-3.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Roemer. In fact, I should now like to give the floor to Mr Zijlstra, but I propose that we first have a lunch break until 1.05 p.m., then proceed with the work and continue with the General Political Reviews around 1.15 p.m.
