ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. It's still a little crooked with the armed forces. The Minister can be blamed for having remained on too great a footing, because, of course, it is possible to finance a military force of EUR 8.7 billion, but then the Minister would have had to make more choices, perhaps painful choices as well. This has not been done to a large extent, but it has been done in a number of areas. This applies in particular to the choice of this minister to work for international cooperation. That is what our group appreciates. Europe must also stand on its own feet in the military field. It is not natural that the umbrella of the United States should remain. That was already not self-evident and with Mr Trump's election, transatlantic love is likely to cool down further. That means that I was happy about the leap.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The German colleague of this minister even talks about the desire to create a European defence union. Does the Minister share that vision? I am extremely curious to hear the answer. And how far does this union go? After all, the statements are very strong. The EU must be able to act autonomously wherever and whenever necessary. On the other hand, that leap forward seems to be very hesitant. There should not be a European army or even a reference to a possible European army in the future or to a European headquarters. If you want to be able to intervene autonomously and independently, what about, for example, the lines of command? That's what I'm wondering. Something about that will have to be settled, won't it? That will have to relate to the question of sovereignty. Is there really a jump here, or is it a bit of a shaky step? Or is this a bit of a saying that sometimes you have to go over the ravine in two steps? The Netherlands not only focuses on the broad cooperation, but also on the deepening of cooperation with Belgium and Germany. Belgium and the Netherlands now have an almost fully integrated navy. That is a step that our group appreciates. We think they are sensible. Does the Minister also see a further integration of the army parts of the Netherlands and Germany, as in the field of the Navy between the Netherlands and Belgium? How does such a deepening of cooperation with these neighbouring countries actually relate to the step at EU level? They seem to move in the same direction, but actually they are two different movements. The defence industry is still very national. Many European orders remain within the national borders of the different Member States for more political reasons. That is one of the reasons why we could get less defence for our euro than we could. Would it be wise for this Minister to make an effort at European level to bring the defence industry into the operation of the European Union's internal market? Would she like to respond to that? Putin tried to sabotage the U.S. election with hacks targeting the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton's campaign leader. Cyber espionage and cyber sabotage pose an increasing threat, while our defence organisation has been struggling with its own ICT for years, even without any nasty outside interference. In the opinion of the cabinet, the Netherlands should be at the forefront internationally in this area. Is that gonna work? We don't see it yet. Defence must not lag behind in the use of technical resources and in attracting experts. The Cyber Commando of Defense has to do this with 11 million euros in the coming years. We don't think so. Is this enough to address the bottlenecks and take a step forward? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the state-wide data inventory. Everyone understands that a lot of defence information is confidential or secret, but there is no reason not to give up any openness at all. Defence, like the US, France and Britain's defence ministries, could give greater openness to available non-sensitive datasets, such as data on waterways of the hydrography services. Is the Minister prepared to give that openness? I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u2	We just had a little debate with D66. It was not entirely clear how D66 stood against the European army. What about GroenLinks? I read in her election programme that she wants to work towards a European defence force under the control of the European Parliament. When the European Parliament is elected, turnout is often around 40%. Doesn't GroenLinks see huge risks if Parliament is given the power to decide on military missions, which can also be very controversial for GroenLinks all too often?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u3	However, this is the picture that we must work towards in the end. If you are seriously looking for European defence cooperation in the future, then you cannot avoid this discussion. We have indeed noted that we want to grow there. That does not mean that we see this as a real prospect for tomorrow. We also believe that the democratic legitimacy of the European Parliament and the relationship between the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers should be strengthened. We have already thought that this would require a treaty change. So you need to strengthen the European Parliament. Yes, it is quite clear that we want to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u4	I respect the position of GroenLinks, but I find that very naive and worrying. This means that the commitment of our boys and girls as far as GroenLinks is concerned will eventually be placed in Brussels, with a European Parliament whose legitimacy can be questioned. That is where it could be decided to start highly controversial missions, such as in Iraq and Afghanistan in the past. Mr Grashoff knows the examples. The whole of Europe was very divided about that. Mr Grashoff therefore wishes to place this in the hands of the Brussels decision-making process. I wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u5	For the sake of clarity, this is where the SP sweeps Brussels' decision-making with the cynicism of our European democracy that it always radiates. We have a directly elected European Parliament, as well as a directly elected national parliament. The view must be extended from the, I believe, naive idea that a stamp in the world, being the Netherlands, could ultimately be about the defence of its own territory, to an image in which it is not about our Dutch boys and girls, but about our European boys and girls. We'll all have to take care of that together. If the European Parliament were in that position, I cannot imagine that it would do so in a more careless way than a national parliament. I have faith in democracy, including at European level. That's the difference between GroenLinks and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u6	I'm glad I know the difference between GroenLinks and the SP now. It's been confirmed again. I do have a question for GroenLinks. Mr Grashoff expressed his concern about the situation in the defence sector. But hasn't GroenLinks in his counter-budget reversed the 300 million that would be added? Doesn't GroenLinks say we're gonna cut $200 million in defense and we're gonna have to put $100 million in cyber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u7	That's right. We have indicated in our counter-budget that we are reducing the increase of EUR 300 million proposed by the cabinet by EUR 200 million and that we want to label EUR 100 million specifically for cyber. So that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u8	Does GroenLinks, whether it's a fan of defense or not, really think it's justified to reverse the 200 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yeah, I'm sure that's justified. It is a question of spending resources more effectively and more efficiently. Look at the far-reaching ambitions of the groups here to reach 1 billion, up to 2.7 billion, with which we go to the European average, or even more, if we want to go to the NATO standard, which would almost double the defence budget. With this they are all trying to stay away from the central question: how is it that Europe, overall the second defence investor in the world, has such an improbably weak military force? The essence of this is the effective and efficient use of resources. It's only when we get that done that you get the amount of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. I see there's four hours and ten minutes on my display.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u11	That should certainly be more than enough. I'll fix it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister, the staff and, above all, the military. They commit themselves in many mission areas around the world, sometimes leading to the greatest sacrifice. We are thinking of the families of those who have died and of the victims who have fallen and are living in difficult circumstances. We are grateful for their commitment. And also proud; the quality they deliver is high. I would like to emphasise this, because we in this house always have a lot of discussions about what is not going well. Before you know it, there's such a negative atmosphere that people there think: are we still seeing what we're actually doing? I would like to underline that. Looking at the safety analysis, it always starts with that, because we have always said that we have to reason from the safety analysis, I have to say, if I look across the Chamber from left to right, that there is very little discussion about that. It's all a bit of a tone, but everyone does see the problems in the Middle East, the problems in other parts of the world, the problems around a growing China and a retreating America. And look at Putin in Russia. It was Putin himself who said in 1993: do not forget that only the military superiority of the West can bring the rogue masters in the Kremlin back to their senses. Now he's in there himself. And now it's no different. I understand that part of the debate. I agree with that. The safety analysis leads to urgency. What I do not understand is the second part of the debate we are having. I'm quite willing to look in that mirror myself, by the way. In fact, we say, at least most of us and also the Minister, that we must return to the NATO standard. We will have to spend 2% of our national income on defence, not to have a budget or to buy beautiful things, but to ensure security. And what do we have now? 8.6 billion. Mrs Eijsink rightly said that we still have to deduct the money for pensions there, because that money cannot be used effectively for the army itself. In fact, we are even lower. So we are 6 to 7 billion short of doing what we have agreed internationally and what Rutte promised, namely going back to the NATO standard. Then it rubs, then it squeaks and cracks in the D.O.D.'s office. I don't get it, when we've actually been sharing the foregoing with each other for a long time since Putin invaded Crimea, MH17 was taken down and there was a change in society that we take so long to take truly fundamental steps. It is true, as Mr Teeven said, that 879 million is involved. It's true. We too have fought for this; Mr Teeven has witnessed this in all the negotiations. Nevertheless, keeping the budget stable is the only thing we are doing now, while all the analyses show that we need to invest in defence and that we need better weapons. There are all kinds of problems with the preparation. We will therefore have to invest. I would like to hear the Minister very clearly about this. Why doesn't the cabinet put a mark on the horizon right now? Why does the cabinet not say: we are going to the NATO standard and we will do so in ten years? Then as a DOD, you know what you're up to, then you can make plans and then you can invest, then you know how much of every weapon system you can buy. Now the Department of Defense has to wait and see what comes up every year. In many cases, this is only compensation for inflation and the repair of delays that have occurred. With this story, I can only imagine that the Knops/Dijkgraaf amendment and the announced Voordewind amendment will be welcomed. At least there will be a little more, but that is not enough either. I immediately got the reaction on Twitter that it's a tip. We will have to solve that fundamental problem. Why doesn't the Cabinet choose that? In this context, I hear too often the word 'EU average'. We shouldn't be some kind of average force. On average, we are doing it wrong in the EU. We will really have to get to the NATO standard. As far as we are concerned, between 3 and 4 billion will be added in the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u13	I can just imagine that this interruption does not necessarily have to be annoying. I appreciate the clear statements made by Mr Dijkgraaf on the pursuit of the NATO standard, but this is literally a doubling of the current defence budget. That's about 7 to 8 billion. Where does Mr Dijkgraaf intend to obtain that amount? What exactly does this mean for other important issues that we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u14	That is a very fair question. We too, like all the other parties, will soon make this clear in a financial perspective. That's not easy. We have done a good job on this, because we are talking about large sums of money. However, I believe that there are possibilities. I simply refer to bureaucracy. The CPB says that we can still save 1.8 billion on this, despite everything we have already done. Those are the posts that you have to look very seriously at when this kind of emergency is there. I would add one thing: far too much has been driven in the past from the financial possibilities. If you find that security is government task number one, you shouldn't look primarily at the financial possibilities, but you should just deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u15	If the ministries or political parties knew that in the margins of the budget there was so much to scrape away, I think we would be an end. However, I continue to find it a somewhat moderate answer to the question of how Mr Dijkgraaf intends to find 7 to 8 billion. Maybe he can tell us where he's going to take that amount: at the care, at V and J, at culture? Can he give an indication of where he wants to get that amount, apart from cutting it in bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u16	That's gonna be public soon. We are, like D66, in consultation with the Central Planning Bureau. I can shout things now, but if the Central Planning Bureau doesn't approve it with its stamp, we have to find something else and then Mrs Belhaj later says: you said this and now it is. We're in that process now. I say we just deliver. Indeed, you will not find that much money in the margins of the budgets, so you will have to make choices. I find security government task number one. Care is important, social security is important, but it is of little use to you when there is no security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u17	I fully agree with what Mr Dijkgraaf said. That is why I have said that there are times when choices have to be made. Mr Dijkgraaf asked me too, so I can also ask him: where does the SGP Group get that money from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u18	That's just what they asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yeah, but let me get this straight. We are talking about 2.5 to 3 billion. It's easy to call that amount, but where did that money come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u20	That's exactly the same question I just got, so the answer is also exactly the same. This is reflected in the report of this sitting. I'll say something. The difference between the VVD and the SGP in this area is that we do clarify the amount we provide for that cabinet period. We do not allow this to depend on the possibilities of coverage. With us, you will not see us saying that we are not going to deliver 3 billion for the coming period, but one billion, 250 million a year. We think safety is very important. If we don't find the money here, we'll find it there. That is what Mr Teeven can take care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u21	That's just the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u22	I know all of that, but it's a little too easy. You also have to rely on financial soundness. The SGP Group is also committed to this. That is the problem of the VVD Group: we agree that there should be money, but we do not know where that money should come from. If you're gonna call that out in the hall, you must have some idea where you're gonna take that money from. Of course, you can parasitize on economic growth, but that would be too easy. Where does the SGP Group actually get that money from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u23	I've just explained three times that we're in the process. The VVD is also in that process. However, this debate is not about how you cover that expenditure. That's not the point at all. It's about how much priority you're giving to Defense over the next few years. Then I see the VVD diving away and I hear her say: at least 1 billion. With $1 billion, we won't make it. The second point of discussion concerns the European army. I would like to hear from the Minister that we are not going to a European army. Those lyrics will come out tomorrow. I don't want us to go there in a sneaking process. That's pretty exciting. I am also in favour of cooperation, but how do we prevent us from working together in such a way that at some point we have to see that the idea that we do not have a European army is just a plaque and that we do have a European army? I still have a few points. We want a military force that can be deployed. The Minister is working hard on that, but I'm still worried about that. When does she think that employability is really regulated? How much is the operational and material readiness of A systems expected to increase in the coming years? During a work visit, I saw the NH90. It's a beautiful helicopter and I was impressed by what the thing can do. However, last year it was 10% operational. That is not a reproach to the system or to the people, but to the means available to keep those systems in the air. What about business? When will the plans be ready? What about the execution? It is right to say that business should be in order because otherwise we will not be efficient. Does the Minister have sufficient resources, including within the current budget, to conduct good human resources policy? There are nice things about 100% filling. Is this including the extension of nearly 1,000 employees for the enhanced basic readiness? How affordable is recruitment needs in the longer term? Finally, on this point. I would like to hear from the Minister about the coherent military strategy. We know with each other that it is important that there should be good cooperation from the fields, such as development cooperation, but certainly also foreign affairs and defence, and that there should be a good military but also civil strategy. We have learned from previous sections that this did not always go well. When I read the literature, I get the impression that this sometimes has to do with the cooperation between the different departments. The D.O.D. wants this, and the State Department wants it. There are all kinds of parties that provide input outside. Can that process be optimized? How can we ensure that current cooperation is improved and what measures can be taken to improve it? I see Mrs. Eijsink standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u24	Me too. Mrs. Eijsink.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u25	Let me talk about this cooperation, because cooperation is always based on commitment. It's never cooperation to cooperate alone. I would like to put the following to Mr Dijkgraaf. In June it was two years ago that the Airmobile Brigade of the Netherlands and a unit of Germany were integrated. It was an historic moment. It concerns 10,000 soldiers on the German side and 2,000 soldiers on our side. It's an historic partnership. This cooperation is, of course, fantastic and continues with the Minister and her colleague, Von der Leyen. What if this unit really needs to be deployed? There's practice together and there's cooperation. But our force is there to be deployed. I would prefer not to say that we will always say, because that means that there is a crisis and something must be done. You always have to deal with parliamentary decision-making. We are always talking about this cooperation here, and in our Parliament we are always trying to make that deepening into parliamentary decision-making. How does the SGP see that? 'Cause you have to make those blows, of course. We can work together, and we do. After all these years, I dare say that many of our armed forces are already working together and cannot do that much more. How does Mr Dijkgraaf view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u26	I see Mrs Eijsink's point. If you work together, and especially if you have a joint army unit, which we have on some points, how do you deal with that decision-making? Our starting point has always been that the deployment of our military forces requires the agreement of our own parliament and that we always have to deal with this commitment. There is tension in the vein of "how do you do that?" Does it mean decision-making twice, on one side of the border and on the other side of the border? I think so in this case. I dare to pick up that glove: how do we do it for the future? But this is the starting point for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u27	I understand that, because that is, of course, the current situation. You don't plan a crisis, or it wouldn't be a crisis. Let's say there's a crisis and we're gonna need a bet next week. The men and women are trained and must go. What is Mr Dijkgraaf's view of such a process? The Dutch Government may take a decision and inform the Chamber. It's still constitutional. On the German side it is true that Parliament is about it anyway. But the crisis is here. How to act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u28	I'm not gonna tell them how to do it on the German side, that's just their problem. I think it is right that the Dutch Parliament should refrain from doing so. What matters to us is how we do it. If necessary, the cabinet can simply decide and inform us. If necessary, we shall have a subsequent debate on this matter. We are so united that, if we are called at 3:00 a.m., we can have a debate here at 4:00 a.m., if we need to. We also know that the Ministry fortunately has the strength to do what is right for our country if it is necessary. Finally. We want a versatile military force. It must never be the case that the budget leads to us failing in the air, land and sea. I would like to hear the Minister on that point, which I believe she shares, and on much-needed investment. I am thinking of the signals about the latest technical and financial setbacks in the development of the F-35; see Senator McCain's letter. I'm also thinking about the submarines and I'm thinking about the frigates. There are a lot of investments we have to make. Does the Minister think he can give them good hands and feet with this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. First of all, our defence personnel. DENK is for a good reward from the defence personnel. They put their lives at risk, and that includes a good salary. They say the world is getting more unsafe, but how are we going to make the world safer? By buying more weapons or by waging more wars? Or is that what we do by preventing wars? The power of the Netherlands is not to fight with weapons and wage war. The strength of the Netherlands is to prevent diplomacy, reconstruction and wars. DENK believes that we should invest in this; not in JSF jet fighters, but in diplomats; not in supersonic submarines, but in reconstruction; not in expensive frigates, but in de-escalation. DENK is for a dedicated army focused solely on defence, peace and reconstruction. That means we don't want to participate in all kinds of military missions. They've gone bad too many times. Think of Srebrenica, think of Afghanistan and Iraq: a lot of innocent civilian victims, lots of wasted money. This means that we are fundamentally opposed to the 2% NATO standard. As far as DENK is concerned, this 2% leads to a one-sided focus on money, weapons and military display of power. That is a tunnel vision, which does not lead to more peace, but rather to more war. The NATO standard is a macho standard. That's why DENK wants to renegotiate the NATO standard. It must become a standard of peace rather than a standard of violence. It shouldn't just be a financial standard. Other elements should also be considered, for example what a country does about conflict management and prevention. What does a country do about reconstruction after war? What has been the historical commitment of a country to peacekeeping missions? It is not just a question of how many weapons and soldiers a country has, but also of how much a country contributes to international security. Dare to think differently, dare to question the NATO standard, the standard of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u30	This is a clear view of the Defense Department. It's kind of like what the SP said. I hear Mr Öztürk say: stop all these missions. Does he think that we should just choke on the people in Iraq who are suffering from ISIS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u31	The Netherlands once participated in war in Iraq. ISIS is ultimately a result of the intervention there. That's what happens when you bring down a regime with weapons, with war, without thinking about what's gonna happen next. Look at Libya. Everyone was talking about Libya, but I don't hear any MPs talking about what's happening in Libya. Should we do something to rebuild that country? I don't hear anybody about that. We have all participated in such missions very often. So we at DENK say: with such missions the Netherlands must stop now. The Netherlands must ensure that these things do not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u32	I hear you clearly about missions you impose yourself on a population, but I am simply talking about today, about thousands of people who have to flee, who are afraid, who have lost their families, in Syria and in Iraq. Does Mr Öztürk think that the Netherlands should simply stop participating in coalitions to protect those people and give them a normal life as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u33	Look, you don't solve the problems by throwing bombs and running fast with the fighter jet. Let us be very honest and clear about that. If we throw bombs and these people come here, the same parties here today are calling for more money for defence and more money for bombs, just say: we do not want those people here. I think we should take back the diplomatic role we have always had in the world. With the rugged language of a number of parties here, who think they can solve the world's problems with weapons, with fighting, we can't win the war.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Kuzu does not have a lot of speaking time, so he cannot deal with everything. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u35	It is Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u36	Oh, yeah, that's right. It's the other one. Excuse me. They look just like each other. My apologies, it was the wrong one. Mr Öztürk did not say anything about the threats, Mrs Belhaj also mentioned the radical Islam in the Middle East, which killed thousands of people. The radical Islam is not only a threat to the people here, but much more so to the people there. What is Mr Öztürk's view on this point? How are you supposed to fight these people without weapons or weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u37	Because of the way in which we have fought it so far, we only have additional refugees. I've only seen the CDA dealing with Islam lately. I think it would be good if the CDA would keep the Christian, and also from Limburg the Catholic, values intact and would not go along with the rugged language of the PVV and the VVD of "let's fight nicely." The CDA should also not participate in the crusader story of the SGP. The merciful of the CDA, which I did know in Limburg, I know the name of Mr Knops, as Limburg's MP, I also miss him very well. What I see now is joining with Mr Omtzigt in the front, trying to push another community of faith into a certain angle. That doesn't fit with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u38	This is not the beginning of an answer to my question. This is simply a broadcast of the party to which Mr Öztürk belongs. That's very disappointing. I'm very merciful to people who are peaceful. At the moment when our free Western society is threatened by radical Islam that only wants to kill one thing, namely anyone who thinks otherwise or doesn't believe you will eventually have to use military means. That's not the only thing, but you're gonna have to do it. My question to Mr Öztürk is whether he agrees with me on this point. Or he says, "You just have to ignore it, you don't have to send people out there, you just have to let it get over you and when people get killed, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u39	There are a lot of mosques in the Netherlands that want to prevent radicalism. Of those, 143 are from Diyanet. And what does the CDA want, with the Christian Brotherhood: to stop the wages of the imams. That is what the CDA wants, with those mosques that prevent radicalism and who have been working for years for the Netherlands to get young people to not go to the extremist corner. From the hardworking people there, you take the salary, Mr. Knops. That's the problem. Then young people become radical and you say that weapons must be put in place. I think the CDA needs to think before she does a very rough defense story like this. That's a little preaching for your own parish. In my opinion, the CDA should stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u40	Instead of you baking, I would very much like to find something of a nuance with Mr Öztürk. In Iraq, I believe that the situation was that a government of an Islamic country called for international help to counter the totally radical IS movement, which was in the process of standing its own peaceful people, with an Islamic faith, to life and did not give life. If you do not want such a mission, which side are you on, I ask Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u41	I want to prevent organisations like ISIS from being created, that people get into their heads at all to set up such an organization. ISIS must be combated, but not just with weapons now. We should have prevented the emergence of ISIS by not going along with those rugged countries by fighting against the regime in Iraq. After all, the weapons we thought there would be were not there. That kind of thing, that's what DENK's guarding. So we are fighting against all forms of extremism, all forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u42	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Öztürk when he says that you should do your utmost at international level to avoid radicalisation of this kind. I fully agree with that. Also the western world has not built up an exceptionally good track record in recent years. I agree with that, too. But you want people to prosecute like hell? Are you saying, when you see that there is brutal repression or genocide, that I am on the side of peaceful forces? That is the question I would like to put back to Mr Öztürk. I hope he answers that question the same way I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u43	Of course, if you see peaceful citizens being slaughtered by the violence of an extremist organization, then you have to intervene. However, we are going to go further into this, and we are going to go deeper into it. We do not join the frame in which people say: we must attack Libya or Iraq or any other country. In Afghanistan, in Libya, in Iraq, you can see the consequences of that attitude. In the process leading up to this, the Netherlands should invest even more money and more energy, and more diplomats should be deployed to do so. That is what we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u44	I very much agree with Mr Öztürk's analysis. I also think it's okay if he gets inspired by the SP. I do not know if that has happened, but let him not be fooled by all those war-hitters here who advocate more bombs and less diplomacy. I very much agree with Mr Öztürk. But does he agree with me that we should ask that of all countries? Is he therefore prepared to condemn Turkey when violence is being used and that country is throwing bombs, for example against IS? The Netherlands does the same and Mr Öztürk rejects it from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u45	We had a nuclear-weapon debate here a few months ago. Mr Van Bommel of the SP asked what I thought about nuclear weapons in Turkey. The answer from me was: if you see me talking here, do you see Turkey in the background? Is there "Turkey" over my head? I think we should stop asking suggestive questions. If we find something, we find it for the whole world; that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u46	That's clear. But then there is nothing wrong with asking whether Mr Öztürk therefore condemns the violence committed by Turkey, as the SP also condemns the government's policy of war here? Mr Öztürk does the same. Equal monks, equal hoods. I therefore understand that Mr Öztürk also condemns Turkey's violence. Is that right, or isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u47	There's a terrorist organization called PKK. That organisation is prohibited in the Netherlands. This organisation is also prohibited in Europe and in the world. I think the SP should do her homework on that front first. I think that the relationship the SP has with a terrorist organization needs to be investigated. The SP Group does nothing with that year in, year out. I therefore believe that Mr Van Dijk should ask himself what he is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u48	These are tough words. Mr Van Dijk may respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yeah, there's a lot going on right now. The PKK is suddenly brought in. It's like I've got a map here behind my head. I asked Mr Öztürk a question. Does he condemn Turkey's violence against IS as much as the violence committed by the Netherlands in that area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u50	I have just made it clear that ISIS needs to be addressed. That is my answer to this question by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u51	I would like to build on the discussion that has just been held. Mr Öztürk actually says about our armed forces: you don't really need them. He says you can actually abolish weapons systems and we don't have to have fighter jets anymore. He proposes to use the money for reconstruction and diplomacy. Actually, he's saying, "Get rid of the force," because it's not really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u52	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u53	That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u54	Then you have to listen carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u55	If you stop buying weapons, and if you stop adding money, you'll basically rip off the armed forces and destroy the armed forces. My question is: should Erdogan do the same as the Netherlands? Should Turkey do the same as the Netherlands: only keep an army for diplomacy, reconstruction, aid and peace? Should Erdogan do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u56	I propose that Mr Bontes read the DENK election programme. After that, I think he needs to think again about whether to ask this question or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u57	That's an evasive answer. Just answer for once! When it comes to Turkey, Mr Kuzu and Mr Öztürk always remain silent. Then there will never be a concrete answer. Turkey is being shielded. Erdogan's being shielded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u58	Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u59	You are standing here arguing that the Dutch army should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u60	Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u61	Should Erdogan do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u62	Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u63	Where is your loyalty? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u64	Nonsense. Who are you to ask me a question of loyalty? Who are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u65	Speak through the chairman. We're not in a...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u66	You need to think about how you ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u67	Who are you? Who the hell are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u68	Who are you to ask me a question of loyalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u69	If I loved my country so much, I'd live there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u70	I love Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u71	Go to Turkey!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u72	I love Holland. Yeah? And you should...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u73	No, Mr Öztürk, speak through the President. And it's "you" and not "you," I guess. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u74	Let us continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u75	But with respect, I'd like to discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'm not gonna feel guilty because I've asked DENK about his vision, because I think it's good to be open about that and start the debate on it. I would like to return to the point: we tend to have a very pacifist attitude and to see a number of solutions through diplomacy. My question to Mr Öztürk is as follows. I think that many people who sympathize with the DENK movement are wondering: how can it be that western countries in the past have so often done so little for people in other continents and simply allowed people to be murdered and have to flee? That is why Mr Öztürk's answer was so surprising and I ask again. ISIS is here now. Something has to be done now. Now people are dying. Does Mr Öztürk still think that the Netherlands should not do anything to help those people there, regardless of diplomacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u77	I answered that question. I've said ISIS needs to be dealt with. I have answered that several times. That is being done at the moment, but at the moment when ISIS is being tackled hard, so other advisors say, other organisations are coming and coming. So I'm like, if you're gonna handle an organization, you're gonna have to have an approach and know what's gonna happen next. That rugged language to get votes, that right-wing thing here, that taking part in that hype, doing that rough thing, that cry for more weapons and more war, doing more rough things, and then the voices come, those purely personal interests that play here; we don't participate in that. Our story is: what are we going to do next with the people who have become extremist? You gotta have a story for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u78	So, in summary, Mr Öztürk supports the participation of the Netherlands in the ISIS coalition and is particularly looking forward to the cabinet's plan for what we are going to do next to restore stability as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u79	We supported the cabinet in tackling ISIS, but we did not support bombs in Syria, which we did not think was necessary. That's where we drew the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a prosperous country, even one of the richest countries in the world. Nevertheless, our armed forces have been shamefully neglected in recent years. The cabinet carried out a naive and life-threatening defence policy. With the election of Donald Trump as American president, this became painfully clear. His comments on the European under-achievers within NATO are, of course, entirely justified. The European criticism of this is an enormous weakness. It's even hypocritical. Not Trump, but the freeriders, such as the Netherlands, are a danger to the survival of the Atlantic Alliance. Our country has for years failed to comply with the NATO 2% standard. We break our promise in a terrible way. We're behind by net 0.8% of gross domestic product. This cabinet abandons its allies over and over again. My group has tabled six motions in recent years to boost the defence budget to the NATO standard. Six times this minister dissuaded our motions and voted against the majority of the House of Representatives, including the VVD, PVV and CDA. Now we have a huge problem. Today we do not want any excuses from the cabinet, today we want clarity. When and how are we finally going to meet our commitments? Or will we continue to parasite our allies after the American elections? We say: come forward before the elections with a clear roadmap to increase the Defence budget by billions as soon as possible. This is about our security, the core task of the government. Fortunately, the Rutte II cabinet is nearing its end. This will allow us to look back on the achievements of this Secretary of Defense. Our conclusion: it wasn't all that good. Because as defence expert Dick Zandee also stated in an opinion piece: after four years Hennis, the armed forces are still a bitch. Previously, NATO and the General Court considered the lack of employability to be devastating. The Minister also admitted that Defence is not fully capable of defending our own territory. After four years of VVD, Defense is still in a depravable state. As a percentage of GDP, the budget is only declining over the next few years. The cabinet promised a break in the trend, but it was only a downside. Our armed forces lack battlepower, the readiness is limited and the investments are not made. For example, 23 ships will have to be replaced over the next 15 years, but the budget for this will not be available. The purchase of drones is postponed to 2022 due to lack of funds. At the same time, there is investment in yoga classes for military. That's totally ridiculous. The priorities are definitely elsewhere. The armed forces are still struggling with greater human outflow than inflow, unfulfilled vacancies and huge shortages of ammunition and spare parts. The Army, the Air Force, the Navy and the Military Police are turning in red. Returning jihadists can sneak into the Netherlands unnoticed by the heavy understaffing. Our commandos had to beg material from allies. It's all terribly sad to see. But the worst part is how this cabinet deals with thousands of former soldiers. While tax officials get a gold-plated scheme, veterans with an AOW-hole sometimes come out at welfare level. The commonly mentioned terms "recognition" and "valor" have become empty casings. It is scandalous that the government has still not found compensation for the AOW-hole within the government budget. Yes, I followed the VAO this morning, I heard the Minister said he was going to solve this, but how and when is completely unclear. No answer has yet been given. Yes, the VVD and the Labour Party only close the gap for half. So the solution is still not close. Hopefully, at the end of this budget debate, the Minister will be able to clarify the situation. Still, I'd like a comment. We live in uncertain and unsafe times. Global tensions call for a strong defence policy and a strong military force. There is no need for this in this cabinet. It is as several military experts said: The Netherlands plays Stratego at amateur level. We must not make the capital mistake of moving towards an EU army, as the President of the European Commission Juncker and the German Minister for Defence want. These urophils seize every opportunity to work towards a European superstate. We want a sovereign Netherlands within a strong NATO. I'm rounding up. My party, VNL, continues to fight for defense. We are the only party to take the NATO agreements seriously. We are investing in our electoral programme more than 5 billion more in our armed forces. And yes, our program is neatly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. With these additional billions, Defence will once again have the opportunity to adequately defend the Netherlands. First, all existing deficits are eliminated. Then we want to work towards a modern military force based on force. This means, among other things, frigates and submarines, more transport capacity, restoration of own tank units and more money for our reservists and marechaussee, but certainly also sufficient budget for cyberwarfare, armed drones and new other technologies. All the army parts are getting enough money from us. We dare to think big in the defence field. Our military deserve it, the Netherlands deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u81	I'm thinking about yoga classes for military. Maybe we should organize it for some of the MPs as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the budget, I would first like to thank the Minister for her commitment over the last four years. It was a hell of a job getting things back together. Over the past few years, its predecessors have made huge cuts in the defence sector. Others talked about that, too. Her efforts to get everything understood and transparent are commendable. Unfortunately, however, it also makes it painfully clear how we stand and that is not so good. The election of Trump as President of the United States shows the need for an extra good army of its own. We must be able to act independently in the Netherlands and Europe if necessary. Although many are shocked by the election of Trump, I say: the voter is always right. Obama said yesterday that we do not have to worry yet and that the US will abide by the NATO agreements, but in the long run we will have to ensure that we comply with the agreements with NATO and thus meet the NATO standard or at least the European average. If we do more, the average goes up, others perhaps do more and we move towards that NATO standard. We've got to get the basic readiness up. It's gonna be a tough job before everything's at the desired level. In any case, the cabinet has started to make extra funds available to put the basics in order, but the 197 million is far too little. This may solve some of the problems, but we are far from there. When we talk about the problems with foreign exchange rates, 40 million is too little. How is the Minister going to deal with the F-35's currency risk? Can she go into that again? Then the AOW-hole. I tabled a motion this morning and others did. The minister didn't advise them. Fortunately, she has made the commitment, and I am pleased that she is going to compensate the people. I think that's good. It's valuable that Defense personnel know they're appreciated, not only with words, but also with deeds. It doesn't help if we're gonna cut down on helmets or put the military on the zero line. In this context, I would also like to ask the Minister whether she would like to comment on the possibility of stressing the special position of the military officer, Mrs Eijsink, by ensuring that the military are exempted from the 52% tax penalty at the time when they do not voluntarily leave the service more quickly. That is what is at issue. Maybe that'll help solve the problem. Another structural problem is the fact that Defense is making investments and releasing money, but that money doesn't end up spending. That's still weird. There's a shortage of money, but there's also underexhaustment. This is partly due to the business management problems, the purchasing processes and scarcity of suppliers. However, we must ensure that availability and conservation are good, and this is not enough. I would like to hear what the Minister is going to do to improve this. Can it consult with the NIDV companies to see how business can contribute to increasing the availability and maintenance of weapon systems and share the results of that consultation with us? In the end, there is a lot of knowledge in the business community and it would be a shame not to use it. The benefit-burden system has often been mentioned. I cannot fail to say one more thing about this. We're gonna work on it. The Minister has already said that finance is in the middle of an investigation. Is it perhaps possible to get to work on this next year? Finally, a topical issue. There has been talk of Turkey. There was a bit of a you-bake debate, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u83	A little?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u84	You've experienced it as much as I have. I thought I'd say it carefully. We have seen a coup attempt in Turkey. That's causing unrest in the world. We are talking about peace and security in defence. A Commissioner from the Netherlands has made a statement on this matter; Mr Knops has already asked for it in the course of the work. How does the Minister appreciate these statements? Does she think they contribute to peace and security? Is she aware of the investigations to which Mr Timmermans referred in the first instance? It appears that these studies are not widely known. The Minister usually knows more than we do, so maybe she can share her knowledge with us and give her opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-8.u86	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow at 10:15 a.m., we will proceed with the treatment of the defence budget. I shall suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m.
