ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week it was announced that the salafistic alFirah mosque in Utrecht has links with an institution from Kuwait that was brought into contact with Al-Qaeda by the American government. It is the second time in a short time that the alFirah mosque is compromised. Earlier it became known that the mosque raises children from a dislike of Dutch society and therefore from a very anti-Western institution. How on earth is it possible, I ask the Minister, that there is still no intervention here and how long have the links with the charitable organisation in question been in existence? Not only in Utrecht we see dubious money flows from the Middle East heading towards mosques. Similarly, the Amsterdam El Tawheed Mosque was once founded with suspicious funds from the Saudi terrorist organisation Al-Haramain. The NCTV has now indicated that such constructions are undesirable. That sounds like an understatement to me. What is the Minister going to do to stop this foreign funding of mosques at last? Is he prepared to close mosques, including the alFirah mosque, which have links with terrorist organizations immediately? If not, why not? Finally, does the Minister share our view that if municipalities are aware of suspicious money flows, as is the case in Utrecht, they should always report this nationally? If so, how does the Minister intend to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van Klaveren for his questions. Let me point out that the mayor of Utrecht has recently had a consultation with the administration of the alFirah Mosque and that constructive agreements have been made, in which the alFirah Mosque has promised to be more open and transparent, including on its way of working but also on funding. That will enable us to assess exactly what is going on there. Let me say in general terms to Mr Van Klaveren that foreign funding, from dubious sources, can be problematic and worrying. Research carried out at the request of Mr Segers shows that problematic foreign financing is still limited to a few cases. There is indeed the possibility of carrying out research on this subject within existing legislation. Mr Van Klaveren, I can say that this research will also take place if it is necessary, but I cannot, of course, give any information on this. We do not know a ban on foreign financing of mosque associations or religious associations in general in the Netherlands. In itself, foreign funding of institutions, whether religious, social or otherwise, does not have to be undesirable or criminal. After all, we uphold our principles of freedom of religion and freedom of association. If it can be proven that financial resources are being used to support terrorist activities, there is, of course, terrorist financing. Then our Code of Criminal Law provides sufficient reason to launch a criminal investigation. It is true that the Pakistani and Afghan branches of RIHS are on the terrorist list of the United States and on that of the EU and the UN. This does not, at least not anymore, apply to the headquarters of this organization in Kuwait. However, if there are suspicions of the involvement of one of the listed branches in financing alFirah or if there is a serious suspicion of foreign influence by foreign financing that poses a threat to the democratic rule of law or national security, then investigation will be carried out by the relevant services. As I said, I cannot make any announcements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	A constructive chat with a salafistic mosque that preaches hatred and facilitates violence preachers is of course not going to make a fool of itself. Nor has there been any answer to my question as to whether mosques linked to terrorist organisations can be closed. It's all too late and also too little. As stated, the problem we see throughout our country is formed by salafistic mosques, mosques with dubious foreign financiers and mosques that keep inviting violent preachers over and over again. My question in this context is what is going on with the motions that have been adopted to ban Salafist organizations, including the alFirah Mosque. Why does this kind of organization get a lot of money?You can think of the Al Fadjr Mosque from Helmond and the Essalam Mosque from Gouda via their anbi-status still fiscal advantage? So we'd all pay for this kind of mosques in the air? Is the Minister prepared to put an end to this? If not, why not? If so, when can we expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	To begin with, measures have been taken by the government to make it possible to withdraw the anbi-status of an organisation in the event of dubious funding. I have already informed the Chamber in a general consultation that this type of organisation often lacks an anbi-status. So that complicates the control of that point. In addition, Mr Van Klaveren asked about a wide range of departments with the various motions that have been adopted in recent months on Salafist organisations. The main line of the cabinet is always that we look at the behavior and not at the belief of life. However, we will ensure that all these motions will be dealt with properly in the coming months as soon as possible. The Chamber will then receive a letter on behalf of all the departments concerned on the implementation of the motions and on what is done with them. Finally, in an earlier general consultation with the Chamber, I undertook to give an overview at the end of the year of what happened last year in the field of research into foreign funding flows for such organisations. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	If we want to combat the influence of Salafism, we simply have to take very firm measures. This means a ban on foreign funding of mosques that we know are linked to terrorist organisations. I have just mentioned a number of them. It also means banning Salafist organizations, as a majority in the Chamber wants, closing mosques calling for violence and dismantling organisations that keep inviting preachers of violence. My final question is whether the Minister can indicate how many mosques in the Netherlands that have been called for violence or who have invited preachers of violence have finally been closed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	To the last question I do not have the answer, because closing a mosque is a matter for the municipality. That's not up to the Minister. One thing is certain: I can confirm to Mr van Klaveren that the cabinet is pursuing an active policy to ensure that the so-called hate preachers cannot enter the Netherlands. We are working seamlessly with the countries around us and with the other countries in Europe. Within Europe, I am constantly addressing the issue, also within the framework of the European Presidency, because we are convinced together that we do not want people calling for extremism and violence or rejecting Western standards and values as speakers in the Netherlands in the context of a religious message. In many cases, there is very good cooperation with mosques. In some cases this is not the case, as recently in Eindhoven. Mr Van Klaveren will know that too. Measures are then taken in close consultation with the municipality, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NCTV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Van Klaveren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	The policy is not that active. The Minister does not know, but I know that a mosque has never been closed in the Netherlands where it called for violence. No mosques have ever been closed in the Netherlands that continue to invite preachers of violence. So I wonder to what extent there is an active policy. The Minister can talk until he weighs an ounce. He can talk like Brugman, but in the end it's about action. If we really want to combat the salafistic idea, especially when it comes to calling for violence, other measures will be taken than just talking to mosques and local administrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	I can tell Mr Van Klaveren that the cabinet is fully convinced of the need to limit all the movements that call for violence and extremism. We are. That's active policy. On behalf of the government, I shall return to the motions on the Salafist movements. That is what I am doing in the letter on the motions that have been tabled in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	The word "active force" has already fallen. The Minister now has a chance to do something. AlFirah in Utrecht clearly has links with terrorist organisations and a clear relationship with violence. Hate preachers are invited over and over again. Speaking of active policies, there have been countless hate preachers in the Netherlands during the Christmas holidays. We have also asked Parliament questions about this. So there's no point in chatting. Go do something. That is why I would like to ask Mr Van Klaveren the following question. Why doesn't the minister show real action? Why does he keep engaging in the fake dialogue with Islam? There is no dialogue with Islam. I ask him to show the Netherlands that it is serious and that he wants to defend the Netherlands against the advancing Islam and especially against violence, hate preachers and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Hate preachers and all those who express ideas that are not in accordance with Western standards and values are being treated hard. This will also be reflected in the answers to the parliamentary questions. During the Christmas holidays, an issue was raised in Eindhoven. There has been active action, both by the municipality, by Mayor Van Gijzel, and by my department in cooperation with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are on top of it, precisely for the reason that Mr De Graaf mentioned. We believe that the expression of that thought has no place in Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Netherlands doesn't notice it at all. A hate preacher came to Amsterdam as well. Action would be taken on this, but what is happening? This guy shows up in Zwolle, too. So he showed up in one more place. Nothing happened there either. Hate preachers get all the space in the Netherlands to spread their hate and their violence ideology, to help Islam even further, to Islamicize even further in the Netherlands. This minister isn't doing anything. So what he's saying isn't true. Nothing's being done. It's a weak policy. Why doesn't the Minister show us any strength? I'm asking for action, not words. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Deadweight is in the implementation of current policy. Every effort is made to ensure that people who preach hatred do not come to the Netherlands. An individual assessment is always made. You have to have a good story. That is also why some preachers are admitted to the Netherlands and others are not. Preachers may already be admitted to another country or simply have a legitimate residence within the European Union. Then it is complicated to act on this, but in good consultation with municipalities we do so with great regularity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	The Minister is right to say that freedom of religion and freedom of association are important elements of our fundamental rights. They form the basis of our rule of law. But the Minister seems to me to be someone who is not currently the guardian of that rule of law. We are talking about political Islamists who have nothing to do with the rule of law, who are restricting the individual freedoms of our citizens because they have some sort of retarded image and want to have another society. The Minister may hesitate, but the Chamber has decided. We want a ban on foreign financing from countries like Kuwait, especially if this is related to Al Quaida, a terrorist organization. My question to the Minister is: are you going to block these money storms? Next time, can we hear from the authorities, that is to say the mayor, this minister and the minister who is talking about integration, that there are parallel societies that we are going to fight, rather than having to hear from the newspaper again and again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	The government's policy on combating political salafism is clear. Mr Asscher explained this in his letter to the Chamber. The rule of law is and will continue to be the starting point for our actions. This also means that each association is assessed in the same way. There may be funding for religious organizations from America, but it may also be from Kuwait. You have to look at the essence of the funding every time. What happens to it, who is involved and what are its effects? That is what the rule of law demands of us. You can expect that from a minister of security and justice. That is the balance that we are always making. Where there is cause for criminal investigation, that criminal investigation is also taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	It is striking that the Minister once again, as a VVD executive director of Security and Justice, does not give sufficient concrete expression to the way in which he carries out the motions of the Chamber. A motion has been filed by the CDA, along with the VVD, to address a number of issues surrounding anbi-status. A motion has also been tabled to ensure that the Salafist flows of money are reduced, but I do not actually hear the Minister say what he has done in concrete terms about mosques that have been discussed today, but also before. What concrete action is being taken, except for the beautiful roaring lyrics of this ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	As far as mosques are concerned, the primacy lies, of course, with the municipalities. The municipalities must consider for themselves the measures to be taken in relation to their own mosques. That's what happens all the time. Utrecht and Eindhoven are very good examples of municipalities where the mayor has played an active and in my opinion very good role. The government is also responsible for criminal enforcement. It just happens where it's needed. There are examples of this. I've already talked about anbi status. Government policy has changed in response to questions from the Chamber. The anbi status may be withdrawn if necessary. In addition, there are concerns about money flows. We will take them up at the end of the year, as I promised the Chamber. That is complicated, because it is also about research carried out by the services. The question is whether there will be anything to report on this. That's what I told the Chamber. We will send that information to the Chamber. In the meantime, hate preachers are being prevented and everyone who crosses the legal boundaries is being looked at thoroughly. It's under criminal investigation. This applies in this case alone to jihad suspects for more than 85 investigations into more than 100 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	I would like to go back to the reasons for these oral questions. It concerned foreign financing of Dutch mosques. The Chamber has discussed this with the Cabinet on several occasions. We have had a very frustrating briefing on this, in which it was actually noted that we cannot identify the financial flows and so there is no problem. At that time, Mr Segers and I tabled a motion in which we again asked the cabinet to clarify and clarify the financial flows. Now I hear the Minister say: if necessary, we will make this clear and clear. I would like to know what is going on with the implementation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	The Chamber has been promised, under this motion, that before the end of the year information will be provided to the Chamber where possible, possibly confidentially. On behalf of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, I will then provide insight into the investigations carried out in connection with foreign funding of Dutch religious associations. I made that promise and it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	The motion makes it very clear that we want to be informed about this at the beginning of 2016. At the end of this year I think it is rather late, given the topicality of the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	That is the agreement I made with the Chamber during the general consultation. I explained that we need a certain period of investigation. That is the responsibility I have given to Mr Segers and Mrs Tellegen on this point. You want information, and I hope I can give it to you. It does depend on the extent to which research has been possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	This motion has a history. Three years ago, we had a debate with the Minister who is now behind in trade union K. We wanted to get our finger on this soon, but it didn't work out. It has been a very long and difficult journey. The question is, what is the intention of the cabinet? The Chamber has said it wants to know more about these salafistic mosques and money flows. Is it the intention of the cabinet to block it, to counter it, to do more than just map it out? What is the government's wish in this respect, when we see that these flows of money can lead to radicalisation and jihadism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	Of course, it is the cabinet's wish to limit all such influences that threaten the Dutch legal order or adhere to standards that are not in line with the standards and values of our western society. That is also the essence of Mr Asscher's letter on the salafistic movements. He has indicated how difficult that is. He has also indicated that there are very few organisations that call themselves salafistic, that within such an organisation there can be a lot of people with very different ideas and that there can be some or more people who do fall into this category. In the context of the rule of law, the government must always be very careful and tailor-made, but it is the daily policy of the cabinet to limit behaviour that is contrary to our standards and values and that is a threat to our legal order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	I have a supplementary question. The Minister doesn't take away my concerns. The answers are very theoretical in nature, while we have an action plan against jihadism. Salafism, mistakenly confused with Orthodox Islam, is the ideology of ISIS, of the jihadists. I would like to hear from the Minister that he understands the seriousness and urgency and shows in his actions towards these Salafist organizations, which express the minds of the young people, more than 300, who we are losing to war zones. These are our young people we have lost and at the same time pose a threat to our own society. Salafism is the ideology of ISIS. I would like to hear more about that from the Minister, also that he sees the urgency to fight that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	The Cabinet sees this urgency. We are doing everything we can, for example in the area of the Internet. The Internet Referral Unit at Europol has just started and is very successful. As a result, many websites with these kinds of ideologies are removed from the sky. There is excellent cooperation within Europe. The NCTV, in cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, is doing everything in its power to deradicalize those who radicalize. I call prevention. We are trying in every way to ensure that people, especially young people, do not travel with this idea and that there is a good story why they should not follow that idea. We are still unable to stop everyone, despite all the measures rightly included in the action programme against jihadism, but the action programme is being implemented 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you.
