ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions in the second term. I've got three cubes. The first concerns a number of questions which were still open from the first deadline or which were raised in the second period. The second block concerns the assessment of the motions that lie on my property. Finally, I will give an assessment of the amendments in my area. With your permission, Mr President, it might be a good idea for the Secretary of State to take the floor afterwards to give his opinion. I shall begin with the question asked by Mr Marcouch about mental care. I say to him that there is no need to doubt the expertise and professionalism of mental care for the police. The model proposed by me is united with the professional profile, the quality standard and the professional code of the Association of Spiritual Careers, the FGMZ. In April of this year I informed the Chamber about the contours of the work. This means that the intended spiritual caregivers are fully-fledged spiritual caregivers, who operate from a specific religion or belief. There is therefore no question of a business coach or psychologist to whom Mr Marcouch called. I agreed to inform the Chamber in the first quarter of 2017 about progress on this issue. Of course, I keep that promise. Mr Van Nispen asked about the right of victims to copy files and see other documents. The answer to that is that this right does indeed exist. The same applies to the copying of pieces. If the NFI has conducted investigations in the context of the criminal investigation, those investigations are also part of the file. This is enshrined in Article 51b of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As we have exchanged in the first term, but also in the written reply, the Public Prosecutor may refuse to do so on the grounds of the research interest or the protection of privacy. I'm taking the subject into my ministry's discussions with the Federation of Survivors Victims and the Victim Lawyer. The Public Prosecutor's Office is examining the possibilities of providing survivors with clearer guidance on this issue. Before the summer of next year, I will inform the Chamber. In other words, the Public Prosecutor's Office is considering how it can ensure that there is one clear line of policy with regard to next of kin. In that sense, I agree with Mr Van Nispen's comments. Mrs. Swinkels asked about Victim in Image and Mediation. Let me say two things about that. In 2015, more than 2,000 applications were made for interviews in the framework of Victim in Beeld (SiB). Of these, 70% were victim interviews. 30% consisted of mediation in criminal law. One third of the registrations for victim interviews actually led to mediation. That's relatively high. Of course, the initiative often comes from one side only. The other party still has to agree. The approach of Victim's recovery intermediation interview in Image is emotional recovery. Victim and perpetrator can decide on a voluntary basis to agree on damages settlement. Victim and perpetrator may also decide to link the conversation and its results back to the district attorney if there is another criminal case. The latter may take into account the agreements made in the settlement if they so wish. This has also been described in the policy framework for remedying victims, to which I would like to refer Mrs Swinkels. The mediations carried out by SiB in the context of mediation in criminal law have been included in the evaluation. Other than Mrs. Swinkels thought, these were included in the WODC investigation. Then I come to cooperation with the Belgian police. The Belgian police and the Dutch police are working intensively together. We do so on the basis of operational cooperation, through Europol, through working groups and in ongoing investigations. In addition, there is a police liaison with the staff of the federal police for strategic relations. There's no mention of a cut-off person. Mr. Sjoerdsma asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u2	A very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u3	I asked when the road-saving liaison was placed back. There was talk of him disappearing. So now he would have been placed back. Is that right? If he didn't, didn't he ever leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u4	We discussed this extensively in the April debate this year. There was an embassy council. That's something else. This is someone who, from the Ministry of Security and Justice, maintains contacts with, for example, the Ministries of Justice or Home Affairs in the country where the person concerned is present. Examples include Paris, where there is a liaison from the Public Prosecutor's Office, and London, where there is a liaison from the Ministry of Security and Justice itself. We also had such a guy in Brussels, but he didn't want police cooperation. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for the budget to be put back on the International Crimes Team to deal with war criminals. Let me say first of all that, of course, we have already replied in writing in the first period. I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that tackling war criminals and tackling international crimes is of great importance. This is also seen in the resolution and the investigation into the disaster with the MH17. I've beaten my budget on all parts. I cannot find the space that Mr Sjoerdsma is asking for, but that does not mean that I agree with him that this affects the importance of the team we have. That team is doing a very good job with the, I believe, 31 FTEs working there. Then I'll get to the motions. I shall begin with the Van Nispen/Kooiman motion in part No. 40. It invites the cabinet to come forward with a proposal in early 2017 to regulate the national policy on soft drugs smarter. We have already responded in writing in the first period. Moreover, I have said that it is up to the new cabinet to deal with hemp cultivation and coffeeshop policy after the elections. On this subject, D66 has tabled an own-initiative proposal. Your room might find something on that at first. Furthermore, we have promised to work on scenarios. As soon as I go into the Van Tongeren motion, I'll come back to that. These scenarios shall be made available for the purposes of discussions on a possible coalition agreement. The scenarios range from a complete ban to the legalisation desired by some parties. That leads me to dissuade the motion. In the motion-Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 41 the Cabinet is invited to come forward with proposals to restore judicial errors and inform the Chamber accordingly. Let me say first of all that this issue must be taken extremely seriously. Signals relating to shortcomings in the criminal justice chain must be properly investigated. Appropriate action must, of course, be taken. In 2012, we already extended the innovation criterion in the review procedure. I have not yet been able to read the book; it is only just finished, but it is not as Mr Derksen seems to claim. Mr van Nispen also said that the novel criterion would be too tight. However, on the basis of the current law, there does not necessarily need to be new evidence to meet the novum criterion. This can also be done by means of an expert report which sheds new light on the evidence or with indications that the judge has not properly understood the evidence available. So it is wider than in the media or perhaps by Mr Derksen I say it is carefully given. In 2017, the scheme established in 2012 will be evaluated. I would like to take these points with me in this evaluation. So I will also take Mr Van Nispen's suggestion along with Mr Derksen's suggestion and re-consultation with the Attorney General at the Supreme Court to see what action is needed in his view to allow or accelerate requests for revision. I shall therefore leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber, provided that I can explain it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u5	The Minister may explain the motion in this way, but I would like him to include the three proposals I have made. What matters do not come to the threshold that is now needed? That is the Novum criterion, so there must be a new fact. Should people for financial reasons waive a review request? That was my second point. And the third point concerned the deadline. If those points can be explicitly involved in what the Minister has just said, then he may indeed take the motion that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u6	Then it gets harder. I understand that it is important for you to be informed as soon as possible about a review request, but of course it will take a certain amount of time and it must be done carefully. In my view, Mr Van Nispen is not saying that there must be deadlines by definition, but he is asking whether the deadlines can be included in that evaluation. He also asked for financial obstacles. If I may explain the motion in this way, I will leave it to the Chamber, because then it is simply an evaluation that sees obstacles in implementation practice. Then I come to the Van Nispen motion on part No. 42 in which the government is asked to extend the possibilities for survivors to examine the investigation file. Actually, I've just responded to that. I intend to inform the Chamber in the spring of my conversation with the Public Prosecutor about this. May I ask Mr Van Nispen to hold that motion? After all, I have already made that commitment. If he does not, I will consider this motion as a policy support for the time being and leave it to the House to decide. I don't see Mr. Van Nispen responding, so that's how we're gonna do it. The motion-Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 43 concerns a standard for claims of €500 in the Registry Law Civil cases Act. We had an exchange of views on this. This motion is not provided with adequate coverage. I also disagree with the substance of the request, so I must advise against this motion. In the motion-Tellegen c.s. in piece No. 45 the government is invited to include the points mentioned in the motion in the policy response to the ibo. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If the motion is adopted, and if it is adopted on the basis of the signature, then we will take that request with us in the cabinet response. The Tellegen motion in part No. 46 is about the right to change. Mrs Tellegen and I will agree very quickly that this is a complicated subject. It is not easy to draw the right line. For this reason, I think it is very important that we involve the regime of the right to change in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is exactly what Mrs Tellegen is asking for, and that is why I leave this motion to the House. The Van Toorenburg motion c.s. in piece No. 49 calls on the Government to improve the recording of threat, stalking or violence reports by means of a specific methodology. Let us say first of all that the events we have seen have led us to receive advice from the Unicorn Commission and that these opinions have been taken on board. In the written answer to Mrs Van Toorenburg's first question, I said that we would like to take the experience with the Lethality Screen into account. However, I cannot support the motion if Mrs Van Toorenburg thinks that it should be precisely that instrument. It then advocates a new instrument which is not provided for in the opinions of the Unicorn Committee and which is not in line with the policy that is currently being pursued. I think it makes sense for her to ask me to look at it and take the experience with it. If that's what she means, we can find each other and then I can also make a positive assessment of her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u7	I don't want them to be allowed to do things that are good, but I want them to have access to them, because it's done its job. If that's possible, we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u8	Now we need to be sharp. I think we should take the experiences with the Lethality Screen, but not necessarily that we should prescribe them now. When it comes to something as important as responding adequately to signals of stalking or threat, or risks of violence, you must ensure that it is unambiguous. So my idea is that we will continue along this path, as advised by the Unicorn Committee in the opinions adopted with the broad support of your Chamber. In doing so, we ask that we take note of and take advantage of the experience with the Lethality Screen, to which Mrs Van Toorenburg refers. If so, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. If, however, Mrs Van Toorenburg, I would understand very well if she said that she wanted this instrument to be the only one, I should advise against the motion. I really do not think it is important for two things to exist side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u9	Short response, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u10	I'm gonna do it differently. I'll hold the motion for a moment. I know there's gonna be a big day about the victimization. There is a strong plea here. Maybe the Minister will be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u11	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (3450-VI, No. 49). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u12	In the motion in part No. 50 the government is invited to consult with municipalities on possible bottlenecks in the implementation of municipal plans. I said in my first term that I do not really see a role in this for the cabinet, but I am prepared to interpret the motion in such a way that, if it were adopted, I would enter into consultation with the LOVP and put the subject on the agenda there. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg nodding. Then I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion on item No. 51 is about the bribe. That's what we talked about. If there had been a bribe, this would have to be demonstrated by a Belgian criminal investigation. There is no doubt that research will then also have to be carried out in Turkey. I'm not about Turkey, and I'm not about Belgium. I am the Dutch Minister of Security and Justice. I've indicated where the risk is. If people are expelled from Turkey or are handed over or if they are not allowed to enter it, it is very important for our security that we are aware that they are coming. That means I have to discourage this motion. Then I come to Mr Recourt's motion. He missed one thing in his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u13	What number does that motion have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u14	That's the motion in part No. 54, Chairman. It's a good thing you said it, because I'm jumping off the motion at piece number one. 51 to the motion in part No. 54. The Secretary of State will take up the motions with the intermediate numbers. Mr Recourt is in his motion on item No. 54 forgot something. Of course, he doesn't do that on purpose. He means to indicate that he would also like to give the Council of State a role in the legislative proposal. I understand the motion in such a way that if this motion is adopted, which it looks like, I will do my utmost to send the legislative proposal on mediation to the Chamber immediately after the Council of State's opinion has come into force. I will do my best to do so before the next Lower House elections. However, Mr Recourt will agree with me that I do not, of course, have control over the Council of State on this issue, and it may take three months. I also think it is important for the Council of State to look carefully at such a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u15	I want it to be sent to the Chamber before the elections, because that means that whoever sits at the table for a new cabinet is on the table and we're gonna take care of it. That will also be the Minister's interest. I ask him to urge the Council of State to provide fantastic, high-quality advice, but also quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u16	I don't have to insist on that at the Council of State. I consider the motion to be a firm support for the urgency I exercise. I note, however, that the consultation period has just been closed and that the reactions are not all in line. That doesn't make it easy. Opinions on the bill are quite divided. Partly people don't think it goes far enough, while others think it goes far too far. So I'm sure I've got a job to do there. I would like to thank Mr Recourt for his support and leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 54 to the Chamber for that reason. In his motion in part No. In a number of areas, Mr Marcouch pointed out how, in his view, this is also the view of the cabinet that discrimination should be dealt with. This is broadly in line with policy. There is an integrated approach. We have the National Action Programme against Discrimination, which is state-wide. The Chamber will be updated annually with any new measures and progress. The next one's coming this spring. Discrimination in access to and access to the labour market is also a priority for the College of Human Rights. I therefore consider this motion to be a firm support for the policy we are pursuing and leave it to the House to decide. I'll come to the motion in part No. 56 by Mr Marcouch. It's about publishing images. We had an exchange of views on this. I have also shown in writing what is already possible. May I interpret the motion as follows? Mr Marcouch asks me to look into the legal possibilities and the possibilities for maintaining what he proposes in this motion. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 57 Mr Marcouch actually calls on the government to allow professionals to look behind the front door in the event of radicalisation, even more so than they already do. In the context of radicalisation and deradicalisation in the municipalities, huge programmes have been developed in the context of the case-by-case consultation. In addition to looking at the person concerned, the case is being looked at more widely. We have had experience with the Preventive Intervention Team following a previous motion by Mr Marcouch. It has shown that municipalities, as well as professionals, do not think it is necessary to have any more powers. I put my ear there to listen. For that reason, I must discourage the motion. But Mr Marcouch and I share the view that we need to tackle jihadism, extremism and radicalisation firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u17	I regret that the Minister is not in favour of the motion. It is not so much that these professionals lack powers, but that they are embarrassed to act because they are actually incompetent. It can't be that we say: then we don't do it anymore? After all, we see that many young people are radicalising very early. We also need to be able to address the little brothers and sisters. It can't be that we don't do anything with that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u18	I take Amsterdam as an example. The top 600 approach looks at the siblings. In the context of combating radicalisation, the family is looked at. After all, we know that there are risks in this area. So that's what's happening. I have not received the signals that Mr Marcouch has received which would indicate that there would be an act of embarrassment. The professionals and the municipalities tell us, as I have been told, that there is no need for more powers. But perhaps it is an idea for Mr Marcouch to continue the motion so that I can discuss this with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u19	I got the information from the minister himself that that pilot collapsed because professionals were required to act to get behind the front door. That's why I tabled this new motion. I'd like to arrest her to give the Minister time to take a good look at it. However, I think it is important that we do not let those brothers and sisters of jihadists go. If there's a jihadist in a family, we need to get into that family.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u20	In my view, Mr Marcouch and I share the principle that we should also take into account the role of the family and any brothers and/or sisters in preventing radicalisation. I understand from Mr Marcouch that he wishes to hold the motion. Is that correct, Mr. Chairman? If so, Mr Marcouch and I will continue the discussion on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u21	At the request of Mr Marcouch, I propose his motion (3450-VI, No. 57). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u22	I come to Mrs Helder's motion on item No. 58. I actually thought that Mrs Helder and I would have found each other in the first term on this point. I'll tell her I'll send the bill to the Chamber by Christmas 2016. This motion is actually a support for its implementation practice. I therefore agree with the thrust of the motion. I think it's gonna be complicated to set a fixed deadline. But I would like to have the debate on this with Mrs Helder. Is it perhaps an idea that she will hold the motion until the bill is in the Chamber? Then we can discuss these points in the debate we are going to have. As far as I am concerned, the debate on this can and must take place very quickly, very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u23	Sure, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u24	At the request of Mrs Helder, I propose her motion (34550-VI, No. 58). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u25	I thank Mrs Helder for that commitment. In the motion in part No. Mrs Helder asked for a new and additional measuring instrument. Measuring is knowing; Mrs Helder and I always agree. She may know that Kamerlingh Onnes, who won the Nobel Prize in 1913, made a laboratory in Leiden "the coldest place on earth." That happened in what is now known as the Kamerlingh Onnes Building. That building belongs to the law faculty. His motto was to measure to know. Mrs Helder and I share that motto, but the Nobel Prize has not yet been held together. So we have several measuring instruments to determine the extent and severity of crime: the Security Monitor, the Youth Crime Monitor and the overview Crime and Law Enforcement of the WODC and the CBS. I see no need to introduce additional measuring instruments. I do see the need to always have the willingness to adapt the measuring instruments. In other words, a new instrument, as stated in the motion, I do not like it, but I do think that you should always develop the instruments you use. The question is if I can explain the motion in this way, but then I am speaking to her... No, I see to Mrs Helder that that is not allowed. Then I'll advise against the motion. But I do accept the thrust of the motion, namely that 'by measuring to the knowledge' is a very good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u26	Mrs. Helder. Maybe you two will come together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u27	I heard the minister say he was going to explain the motion linguistically. I nodded a little bit, but the minister immediately interpreted that as a no. I'd like to hear that linguistic explanation anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u28	I would like to ask whether I can understand the motion in such a way that Mrs Helder and I agree that measuring is important and that we should be prepared to change instruments over and over again. With regard to measuring the willingness to report, I really give credit to Mrs Helder. She has asked a lot of questions about this in the past. We've been doing a lot of research on that. Then, fortunately, there was no reduction in the willingness to report, but unfortunately there was no increase either. We know that now. In my opinion, Mrs Helder and I agree that we must be prepared to always develop the measuring instruments. If I may explain the motion as an incentive to continue to do so, I shall leave it to the Chamber. If Mrs Helder also wants new instruments, I must advise against the motion. Because I just don't have room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u29	I referred in the first period to an expert who suggested that we look at the method of re-catching. That could be an additional way of research. The intention of the motion was actually to have that investigated. This research could also lead to the absence of an additional instrument at all. The Minister's linguistic explanation is too scary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u30	We still share our thinking that measuring and knowing are important. I'm dissuading the motion. But I will continue to measure, so that Mrs. Helder can also know. The motion in part No. 61 from Mrs. Swinkels is about seizure. We have discussed this very briefly. The Public Prosecutor's Office is working on a new national directive on the disposal and destruction of property. The improvement measures are now being implemented, as mentioned in the letter I sent to the Chamber on 4 October. I'm going to inform the Chamber when that national directive is ready. A mandatory rule not to set aside before the judgment of the court leads to undesirable practical consequences, for example for goods which quickly lose their value or are perishable. That's why I have to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Segers asked for an inquiry into the justice of the peace. Let me say first of all that I am always willing to make good ideas that blow over from another country into ours. I think we should, too. Our impression is that the experience of peace judges abroad, particularly in France, is not a great success. That's also because it's a lay judge in France and not a professional. That's where the problem's gonna come from, I'm telling you. If you want to send a professional, there must be a clerk with it, there must be support, there must be a hearing place and that must also be regulated by law. So it's not just taken care of. I ask Mr Segers if I may explain the motion as follows. I ask the WODC, in close consultation with the Council, to look at the developments in Belgium and France and what could be useful for the Dutch legal system. We may also be able to involve this in, for example, the project with the neighbor judge of the Council for Justice or in the further development of KEI legislation. Let us be realistic: the KEI legislation leads every Dutchman to have access to justice from his own home very quickly. Maybe that'll solve the problem too. If I may explain the motion in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u31	Please, to involve and merge the knowledge of foreign projects. At what time would that investigation be completed? As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be a PhD, it doesn't have to be an endless research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u32	I agree with you, it doesn't have to be a PhD, but it has to be a WODC investigation. That's what I'm proposing, and that means it has to meet the scientific standard. I'm gonna take a look at my officials. Is that possible for next summer? It doesn't fit into the 2017 WODC agenda. It's already in place. I will inform the Chamber about the timetable before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u33	And with the Minister's explanation that we ask the WODC to report on this as soon as possible and look abroad and the pilots and find out what is useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u34	Yes, but I actually think it's very ambitious to ask the WODC to add something to the program that is already in place. But I'll check it out. Perhaps Mr Segers will be disappointed, but we will still carry out the motion if it is adopted. That would be one of the possibilities, if I counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mrs. Swinkels, you have a question about this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u36	No, about the last one. You know, I sometimes miss something. Now it was too fast for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u37	That's the motion in part No. 61.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u38	Suppose I slightly adjust the second part of the operative part, will the Minister be more sympathetic to it? Then it's about postponing the decision to destroy. Then I'm thinking about mitigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u39	Then Mrs. Swinkels has to say how, because now I'm in the dark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u40	I would then put it as follows: calls on the government to ensure that the decision on destruction or sale of the property is in principle postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u41	No. Observe perishables, which are worthless, but whose storage costs are very high. I can't think of anything that fast, but I once confiscated a herd of sheep myself, and I wasn't happy with that, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u42	I was just going to suggest freezing the stuff, but figuratively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u43	I don't think that's gonna get us there. Mrs Swinkels wants to postpone, but I want to implement the arrangement we have and make the improvements. So I maintain the advice: dissuade. I'll come to the motion in part No. 66, by Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg on the National Organisation of Police Volunteers. I consider this motion to be as follows, also given the debate. It's a support of what I said, namely that I'd like to have a conversation with the police volunteers. Of course, then, it is up to the parties to reach agreements. I assume that the elements mentioned will also be included. I also assume that Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg agree that this should be at the table and that this motion supports this process. In December we will continue with it. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I come to Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on the scenarios. I have indicated that we are working on scenarios for a new coalition agreement. With that, I can advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 69, about the law and the judiciary with an experiment in the Netherlands. This is a motion by Mrs Voortman and Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u44	The previous motion was the motion in part No. 68. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u45	Yes, that was the motion in part No. 68, by Mrs Tongeren. I'd like to dissuade them. The motion in part No. 69 is the motion-Voortman/Van Tongeren or Van Tongeren/Voortman... I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u46	With four people in the group, it should be possible to keep two apart, I would think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u47	Well, for the record, you've put a scribble on it with all kinds of arrows and names scratched through. There's one thing up here, and here's the other thing, so I'm confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u48	It's Van Tongeren/Voortman. I also read the motion, but I imagine the Minister doesn't remember, because it's been a long day. I do not understand why the Minister does not leave the House to judge the motion on scenarios relating to the regulation or legalisation of cannabis. The minister says it's policy support, and that's why I'm not advising her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u49	It is about the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 68, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u50	Yes. In the motion in part No. 68 is: how regulation or legalization could be shaped. However, I have promised the Chamber to look at the whole range, including a ban. There are parties in the Chamber that have included a ban in their election programme, there are parties that have introduced smarter regulation into their election programme, and there are parties that have incorporated legalisation into their election programme. What I do is wider than the motion. That's why I didn't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u51	Then I still don't understand. We often write motions which do not cover the entire range of policy activities of a ministry, but on which the opinion is left to the Chamber. I have seen a few of them, which happen to include the names of MPs of the Labour Party, who also do not cover the entire spectrum of the Ministry's policy. I think this is part of the Minister's policy. So I would think that he could leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u52	It's not part of the minister's policy. I will ensure that a wide range of possibilities is known for the purposes of the possible coalition agreement; that is what I am doing. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the Van Tongeren/Voortman motion in part No. 69 the government is invited to examine, in consultation with the legal profession and the judiciary, whether an experiment with digital forms of justice can be carried out in the Netherlands. We are on the verge of implementing the digitisation of justice. We've gone through an incredibly long journey. We chose KEI. We've talked a lot about that with the Chamber. I follow the experience in Britain with interest, of course, but I am not prepared to investigate another possibility. We've really chosen our own system. Nor is the system of England comparable to that of the Netherlands. I therefore advise against this motion. I come to the motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 72. I agree with the thrust of that motion. I think that police officers should be clear about their position as soon as possible, but I also think that this should be done carefully, also in the interests of the policemen themselves. I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij if he is prepared to hold the motion until the legislative proposal is tabled. That'll be for Christmas this year. We can then have the debate. Mrs. Helder held her motion for the same reason. Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij is prepared to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u53	I would nevertheless like to put the motion to the vote because it contains a specific deadline which could be the starting point in simple matters. In this way, some pressure can be put on the talks that the Minister is going to have on this issue and the matter will be prevented from being put off too much because of capacity problems or for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u54	The motion, of course, has a majority. My opinion on this will therefore not have much effect, whether I advise it or leave it to the Chamber to decide. I would like to make it quite clear that I am taking care. I will certainly pay attention in the legislative proposal to the possibility of introducing a form of time-limits, but that will not necessarily be this time-limit. If I may explain the motion in this way, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. For the sake of clarity, I leave the judgment on the Van der Staaij and others motion. in piece No. 72 to the Chamber. In the Kuzu motion in part No. 74 the government is invited to use the intensification of 450 million also to tackle discrimination. It is not entirely clear what exactly is meant in the motion. There is a policy of tackling discrimination in all possible areas. I had an extensive exchange of views with Mr Kuzu on this. There are several possibilities. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 75 calls on Mr Kuzu to pay more attention to complex arrest and self-defense skills in maintenance training and police training. I agree with Mr Kuzu that it is important that the techniques of violence and detention are certified and re-certified annually. For this reason the number of training hours has been increased in the collective agreement. I'll transfer the contents of the motion to the Chief Constable. I consider the motion to support the policy and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the Bontes motion to item No. 77 the government is invited to work towards a situation in which other serious crimes may also lead to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Under the previous cabinet, it was examined whether this would be feasible, desirable and possible. However, it was found at that time that this would be contrary to the European Convention on Nationality and that there was no need to adapt it in Europe. In his motion in part No. 78 calls on Mr Bontes to focus on the fundamental reform of the ECHR and the ECHR. I should also advise against this motion, as I believe Mr Bontes understands. The motion in part No. Mr Bontes' 79 concerns the subsidy to the Internet discrimination hotline. On this point, I would like to say that today's coverage of the Internet hotline discrimination also made me raise my eyebrows firmly. As far as I am concerned, the original position of the hotline is unacceptable. Discrimination is discrimination and is not what we in the Netherlands consider desirable in this respect. I therefore agree with those Members who have made a comment on this in this debate. I note that the hotline itself indicated on its website that it made a mistake. I think this is an adequate description of what happened. It has also expressed its regret. The error has been corrected and Facebook has been asked to remove the contested expression. In my view, this incident should not necessarily lead to the cessation of the subsidy at the Internet discrimination hotline. I myself proposed to cut this subsidy, but I can also see that there is an amendment to which I will respond in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u55	They have indeed said that it was not meant to be, but only after we were on top of it have asked questions and it came into the media. Otherwise, it would've been nice. It just said that gays should be burned and destroyed. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u56	No! Mr Bontes and I fully agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u57	Then there's no justification for subsidy, is there? You can't give a grant to an organization like that, can you? Once again, they would have had the same opinion if we had not asked them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u58	I don't know. I can't judge that. I will answer these questions neatly, also in consultation with the hotline. Perhaps I can reassure Mr Bontes on this point. Mrs Van Toorenburg has an amendment to item No. 8 in which it asks for an additional investment in the fight against cybercrime and in cybersecurity. I agree, as we exchanged in the debate, that internal summits need to be tackled firmly. They're working on that, too. The number of declarations of in-houselighting is falling, as is the number of notifications of in-houselighting. It is likely that the rapid blocking of bank accounts has led to a reduction in the number of declarations in recent years. I talked to the banks about that too. They also indicate that the damage they suffer as a result of internal summits has fallen dramatically in recent years. The amendment is then at the expense of investments in cybersecurity and the detection of cybercrime, two points on which I think we really need to do what we propose. I must therefore discourage the amendment. The Van Nispen amendment to item No. 15 considers that part of the subsidy is still available to the NVvR. I have also stated in writing that I do not see any room for that, and for that reason I must advise against the amendment. Mrs Kooiman asks in her amendment to item No. 19 money to be made available to Sect signal. We have indicated the added value of Sect signal. The proposal in the budget was to reduce the subsidy and then no subsidy would be granted in 2017. I agree with Mrs Kooijman that Sect signal has a useful function. The hotline helps the police and the Public Prosecutor to raise the profile of abuses. I have heard the deliberations of the Chamber and a number of Members' comments on this and I leave it to the Chamber to decide on this amendment. The Van Nispen amendment c.s. in piece No. 21 on the Foundation Disputes Committees Consumer Affairs is widely supported by a large number of members of this Chamber. I have, of course, made a careful choice not to finance part of the Foundation's Consumer Disputes Committees. I myself believe that it is a responsible choice to ask the dispute committees to finance themselves. There is now 20% government funding, so that is only a very small part of the total amount. The advantage that the branches have of such a Disputes Commission is much greater than if they had to go to court. I do agree with Mr Van Nispen and others that these dispute committees contribute to an easily accessible dispute resolution, often in the interests of the consumer. That is why I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I shall now turn to the Gershuizen amendment on item No. 22 on the Financial Intelligence Unit. This is an additional EUR 1 million. I have indicated that I would very much like to inform the Chamber of my intention to expand the capacity of the Financial Intelligence Unit. Perhaps, in that context, Mrs Gesthuizen might retain her amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u59	We can't, because we're going to vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u60	You can't, because the Chamber is going to vote next week. Then I must advise against the amendment. I do say warm words to Mrs Gesthuizen that I agree that the Financial Intelligence Unit is doing a good job. I think that I will at least be able to meet her with my letter. Then I come to the Sjoerdsma amendment to item No. 26, which provides for the addition of 2 million euros for the International Crimes Team. I note that the current formation of 31 FTE is of course good, but also that choices will always have to be made as to which crimes can or cannot be arrested. I have no room to comply with this amendment and I must therefore advise against it. I shall now turn to the Tellegen and others amendment No. 28, seen at the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mr Sjoerdsma has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u62	Yes, a short question, because the Minister doesn't say he doesn't want it in substance. He says there's a choice to be made and there's no room for that. If the minister says he doesn't have room, does he mean he's deceiving the cover or not? This coverage is used in several amendments. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u63	There are two reasons. There are a lot of parts of the work of the national police and the Public Prosecutor that I am very positive about, but I do have to make choices. In this particular case, I indicated that I see no room to add this amount for the International Crimes Team. If that space were there, you could make other choices, too. In that sense, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma that I must also discourage the substance of the amendment, although I am positive about it and understand his position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u64	I would ask you to speed up a bit, because I see that there are already people for the next debate, while we are still having a dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u65	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm doing the best I can. The amendment in part No. 28 see the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. I can talk for a very long time about why I think that in a number of areas the sectors now supported by the Centre to do what they themselves could do should also do so themselves. For that reason, I also felt that there could be a reduction. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I shall now turn to Mr Verhoeven's amendment to item No. 30, which controls the budget increase for the Team High Tech Crime. I note that this team is obviously doing important work. It is invested from this budget so that the regional units can deal with cybercrime cases themselves. The Team High Tech Crime can focus entirely on tackling complex high-tech crime and cybercrime. I do not see the added value of this amendment. Moreover, the Safe Enterprise mark has been included in the amendment to item No. 28. I have left the opinion on that amendment to the House. I should like to refer to Amendment No 1, tabled by Mrs Scrivener and others. 30 therefore dissuaded. Mr Marcouch and many other Members of Parliament have the amendment in respect of item No. 32 submitted. This amendment provides for additional funding to be made available for the Internet Discrimination Communication Point (MiND). Should the Chamber decide to vote in favour of this amendment, I will at least have a serious discussion with this hotline on today's events. I think Mr Marcouch agrees that I do. I shall leave this amendment to the House. I shall now turn to the amendment to item No. 33 by Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u66	Mrs Van Toorenburg has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u67	No, I don't have a short question. Before this happened, a number of Members signed the amendment to item No. 32, including me. I have now instructed the Registry to remove my signature from the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u68	The amendment will be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u69	Then Mrs Van Toorenburg will also understand that I would like to have a thorough discussion with the hotline on today's events. I shall now turn to the Kooiman amendment to item No. The aim is to increase the budget for the Children's Porn Information Point for the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse (EOKM). There is no discussion about the need to combat child pornography firmly. I fully agree with Mrs Kooiman on this. My consideration was that the EOKM is a private hotline set up by Internet service providers. That's why I thought the hotline should be able to attract new financiers. We facilitated that. I understand the wish of the Chamber to make more budget available. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 35 by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. This will provide an additional step for the exit programmes. Recently, I have looked at this very carefully. There are certainly good examples, but it has also been shown that these exit programmes are very complicated. I am, however, ported by the fact that there has to be co-financing, and I see this as a condition for making this money available. Subject to the condition that this can only be done if there is co-financing, I leave the assessment of this amendment to the Chamber. With the amendment in part No. 37 of the Recourt c.s. mediation is regulated in criminal law. We have had an extensive exchange of views on this matter. I am very positive about that. I would have liked to find the money myself. I see this amendment as a serious signal to do the same. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. The aim of Mr Kooiman and Mr Recourt was to make additional funds available to the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children, with whom the reduction provided for was largely withdrawn. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. I would like to make two final comments. I would very much like to thank Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Azmani, Mr Recourt, Mr Segers, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij for their very positive contribution and for their compliments to the Ministry of Security and Justice, including for the quality of replying to written questions. The same applies to Mr Marcouch; he was also mentioned. I thank them for these compliments. In my opinion, the compliments for our official support are certainly deserved when I see how things have been over the last few days and how they are now working in this Chamber. These words have been received with appreciation. I am very grateful for the appreciation of our officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u70	Mr Recourt whispered to me that there was still a question about enlargement: the compensation fund for the BES islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u71	I welcome this request. I am prepared to discuss, during my work visit to Bonaire, whether, and if so how, the SGM regime can still apply there. That reminds me that I never had to tell the Chamber what my agenda would look like in the future. If it is true that Mr Recourt says it can be achieved in a relatively simple and cheap way, then I am of course in favour of it. So I will pick that up and inform this Chamber about it after my work visit. I'm sorry I forgot. I shall now turn to the last point. I thank the Chamber for the debate we have had. I note that there is a budget that is sound and provides a basis for the two core tasks of our department: making the Netherlands safer and strengthening the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u72	Mr. Chairman. I shall first answer the questions raised in the second term and then deal with the motions and a single amendment. Mr Azmani asked for a reflection on discretionary powers. In view of the time, but also in view of the problem, I will be reluctant to do so. If that power lies with a ruler, the tendency to deal with it politically is slightly greater than if she were with an official, where she has been in the past. It is not two-fold compared to other powers that already exist. Mr Azmani asked if I felt content with that. In my view, it would be okay if that authority were not in the hands of a ruler, but rather at the level of the IND. Mr Azmani also asked a question about orphanages. The Netherlands also finances, where appropriate, specific provisions for children and/or orphans in countries of origin. This also applies to reception in the region. The Netherlands has an eye for vulnerable groups like children or orphans in the region. I agree with Mr Azmani that it can contribute to preventing phonyism. These are children who, in fact, are not orphans, but are sent out by their parents to reach Europe, in the misconception that an orphan in Europe is better off or more likely to be. Mrs Gesthuizen asked what is happening to the real refugees, now that we want to limit the influx to Europe and the Netherlands and to accommodate the people in the region. There is no right for refugees to obtain asylum in Europe, but we cannot try to stop the non-refugees, because this will be at the expense of the real refugees. The protection should preferably take place in the region and the Netherlands contributes significantly to this. The Chamber is aware of the funds and programmes we make available to contribute to this. Mr Verhoeven asked about the obligation to notify public registers. On this issue, I will send a request for an opinion to the Dutch Data Protection Authority this week. Once I have received that advice, we will address this issue in a response to that opinion and also address the specific issues of reporting obligations and the data lock. These are indeed important issues. Mr Voordewind asked about the willingness to invest 10 million in mobile IND teams to prevent children from having to move often. I'm not prepared to do that. However, I am prepared to ensure that there are fewer moves for children. These are measures that we have already taken, but I do not think that it is the most sensible use of scarce resources to deploy or set up specific mobile IND teams for this purpose. Mr Van der Staaij asked me when the announced investigation into conditional release could be completed. In January or February, the internal audit will be completed and an external examination of the possibilities of linking, promoting or degrading to those VI conditions will have to begin. That could be ready in August. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. Mr Van der Staaij also asked about the difference between conditional release in the event of a conviction of up to two years unconditional and two convictions unconditional each for one year. The conditional release can only be applied if there is an unconditional penalty for more than a year. It's so settled in the law. So if you have two unconditional sentences of something less than a year in a row, there is indeed no question of conditional release, whereas one sentence of up to two years is unconditional. Mr Van der Staaij also asked why was chosen for a period of one year. That is to some extent arbitrary, so we will involve it in the evaluation. The motion in part No. 44 tabled by Mrs Gesthuizen, I advise. On behalf of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, AEF is now investigating the new tasks. I would like to go to the table together with the Dutch Data Protection Authority to see what else is needed. By the way, additional funding has already been allocated for additional tasks. The Azmani motion in part No. 47, I can take over. I agree with what it says and will inform the Chamber about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u73	I see no one objects to taking over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u74	The Azmani motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u75	The Van Toorenburg motion c.s. in piece No. 48 is about the three-month period. I understand the thrust and I would also like to welcome Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I have to discourage the motion for technical reasons, because I am not talking about everything. The municipality is responsible for the paroleal detention. I don't have all the data. I don't collect it, so it's hard for me to report on it. I can involve this issue in the mid-term review of the Youth Act, which will be carried out in 2017. That's how I can map it. I am also prepared to take the motion-Keijzer in part No. Fifty-two to be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u76	Does anyone object to taking over this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u77	Is the Secretary of State literally taking over the motion as it was filed, so that I get a practical story about the execution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u78	I'm going to do my best to make practical proposals. Unfortunately, when Germany embraced this in the media, there was no concrete plan. We are constantly looking with the Commission and with other countries for a method of making it as practical as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u79	If the Secretary of State wishes to work this out with Germany, I am pleased. I'd like to look forward to the elaborate plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u80	The Keijzer motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u81	I come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 53. On the basis of Mrs Verhagen's report, which has also been mentioned, we will shape these activities. The private sector is crucial to this. In the first quarter of 2017, we will organise several round tables. I want to involve the results of this in the further development of the cybersecurity approach. If necessary, I will also change the strategy. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can leave her to the Court's judgment. However, the March 2017 deadline in the motion is too ambitious. If it stays in there, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. The Verhoeven c.s. motion in piece No. I can leave 60 to the judgment of the Chamber. In the letter of 29 November, I stated that I would like to identify the capacity needs in order to be able to involve them in the preparation of the 2018 budget. I shall therefore leave the motion to the House's judgement. The Sjoerdsma c.s. motion in piece No. Sixty-two, I'm not sure. We have discussed this extensively, so the reasons are known. The same applies to the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. in piece No. 63: I also advise against this for reasons that we have already exchanged. The Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 64 is in itself a support in the back. We're doing the same thing. However, the motion is very limited to single children in Italy, whereas my initial commitment was broader: it was about all minors in both Italy and Greece. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u82	Although I very much appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State is taking the trouble to find a reason to discourage this motion, the operative part states that it concerns both the Italian and Greek camps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u83	Yes, but the motion does focus very much on the single refugee children. I wasn't looking for a reason, you know; I just didn't want to raise expectations on top of the agreements we've already made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u84	I have a question about the Sjoerdsma c.s motion. in piece No. 63. I am asking this question now, because we will soon come to Mr Voordewind's amendment. I've asked the Secretary of State what's going on. In my view, there is no letter of amendment to get the 20 million out of the budget, so that 20 million is still in the budget. It says that it is intended, as long as there is consultation, to spend it on local facilities for foreigners. I therefore assume that the Secretary of State will say that the money will simply remain available for that purpose. I am really committed to getting this very sharp, otherwise we will make it all even more shady than it actually is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u85	It is available for if it succeeds in reaching an agreement and we are going to set up IVVs. The motion calls for the payment of local bed-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath facilities until such time as there is no such payment. It's not available for that. I come to the motion in part No. 67, in which the government is invited to table again with the VNG on occasional reception by bed-bath bread. I also advise against this motion, because it is unnecessary. I have promised that I will contact the UNG after the turn of the year to see if it makes any sense to talk about this again. That is why I think that is sufficient. The motion in part No. Mrs Voortman's 70 is in fact the same reason and because of the arguments we had previously exchanged about the committee. The motion in part No. I also advise 71 of Mrs Voortman, because we have an arrangement which is not coincidental. Nor is it intended to be wider than is currently the case. The scheme expects the stranger to have really done his best to leave independently or at least cooperate with it, where it has not been possible for him to do so and cannot be expected either. I come to the motion in part No. 73 by Mr Van der Staaij. That motion is about a bill for immediate implementation. We had prepared that bill, but we didn't get too enthusiastic about it. We are now looking at how we can respond to the objections. We have asked for opinions that are now being processed. On the basis of these opinions, we will inform the Chamber further. It is therefore a little premature to conclude that we need to come up with this. In this form I would therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u86	I am the deputy to Mr Van der Staaij for a moment. I'll have him consider holding the motion. I think this is in his line. I've been working with him for a couple of years, and I think I can estimate that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u88	On what time will the Secretary of State deliver a message?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u89	I hope to be able to send that in January or February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u90	We can hold the motion until Tuesday, because then we will vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u91	In the motion in part No. 76 by Mr Kuzu, the government is invited to commit itself to agreements with countries in order to avoid the punishment in question after expulsion. I can't change the laws in other countries. Countries that have such a law are not usually the countries you are talking about here at all. Eritrea is the most prominent in this respect. I do not think it is important to give priority to this. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). We also had an exchange of views on this during the Youth legislative consultation. Access to justice remains possible, but it is no longer automatic. So if people have any objections, they can go to court. The motion in part No. 81 by Mr Klein, I also advise against. The oath was abolished precisely because it proved not to contribute and was not a powerful attempt. What is powerful is a complaint procedure in disciplinary law; we have it. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 82 by Mr Klein, too, because Childcare estimates the Netherlands, and also experiences, that it does not often occur that family guardians are not there. I come to the motion in part No. 83 by Mr Klein. I also advise against this motion. It is really not intended that anyone applying for asylum should receive a language course; it is not a language institute. What we are doing now on the basis of the Sjoerdsma motion seems sensible to me, but this is going too far. I am ready for the amendments. The amendment in part No. Mr Voordewind's 20 is actually about the same thing as the motion we raised earlier, but then as an amendment. I reject the amendment for the same reason as the motion. As far as the amendment on item No. 34 on voluntary craftsmanship, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that volunteers play a useful role. That is why a budget of 3.2 million is available for volunteering. I do not think it is wise to raise this at the expense of the investment in DJI staff that is also badly needed. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u92	I'm gonna go back to the motion on part no. 76. I think it's easy for the Secretary of State to ignore it. Eritrea is one of the countries, but there are several countries to which the same applies. Could we not at least expect the Secretary of State to try to do so? If the Secretary of State does not wish to do so, it is not an incentive for people to return voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u93	Of course, Mr Kuzu may expect that, but I do disappoint him. I am not saying that it is insignificant, but in the whole list of things we have to do, I do not think that this point is high enough on the list of priorities to give the impression that we are going to work hard on it. I really want to use that capacity and energy for other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u94	I hear music! I'm gonna ask the people in the bleachers to turn their phones off or off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u95	The lines are close to the SGP fraction. Mr Van der Staaij wishes to see the motion on item No. Seventy-three, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u96	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (14550-VI, No. 73). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u97	My group would like to object to the adoption of the motion for a resolution on item No. 52 by Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u98	This comment is also taken into account. Secretary of State, you're done answering the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u99	Do I have to pass judgment on that motion? Then I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u100	Exactly. Then the motion will be put to the vote. Have you finished answering the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u102	I see that Mr Marcouch and Mrs Van Tongeren still want to interrupt. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u103	I didn't want to interrupt the Secretary of State, and I'd like to return to the motion in part No. 53, about cybercrime. The Secretary of State was willing to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber if the March 2017 deadline were to be deleted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u105	We're willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u106	I assume that the motion for a resolution before the vote will be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u107	I too have good telepathic contact with my group colleagues. I'd like the motion on part number one. Seventy-one, hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u108	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (34550-VI, No. 71). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-01-tweedekamer-12.u109	I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input. We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. I say to the people in the public gallery that they are far too early. The debate has come to an end. We'll start the next topic at 7:30.
