ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome you all. I welcome the initiator and his support, as well as the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The support consists of Ms De Jong, former PvdA trainee, Ms Punte, PvdA policy officer and Ms Lin, intern of this party. Welcome! Looks like a strong team.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u2	That's right! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u3	That's right. In examining the bill, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will act as advisor to the Chamber. The next item is the first term of office. The legislative proposal will continue to be dealt with at a later stage in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u4	I shall now be the first to give the floor to Mr Geselschap, who has the privilege of speaking his maiden speech tonight. Let me just say this with a slightly exhorting undertone: as you all know, it is customary not to interrupt and I do not allow that. I would like to give Mr Geselschap the opportunity to make his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr. Chairman. Before I joined as a Member of Parliament, a journalist asked me what inspired me to turn my life upside down for such a short period of parliamentary membership. In my answer I used the metaphor of a change in injury time to keep the team complete until the whistle signal. It's an honor to be on this team. I would like to add that this cabinet gets the whistle and thus becomes the first cabinet in this century to govern the country for the entire reign. That is also very much needed to get the Netherlands back on its feet in these difficult times. With back number 58 I am realistic in my expectations. We can't all be Michiel Kramer and score the winning goal for the o so beautiful club Feyenoord in the 99th minute. But I did ask my group if I could have some ball contact in injury time, and I would like to thank the members of the group for the warm welcome, for the fact that they are here now and for their great collegiality, which has also been shown to me in sharing debates. In this way, yesterday I was allowed to hold the first general discussion with the Minister who is now also present. The first two weeks go fast, because as of today I am not even the youngest Member of Parliament. And now, exactly two weeks after my installation, I get to make all my maiden speech. That is completely unexpected and therefore the public gallery is not filled with my friends and family, because they could not make it on such short notice, but I am of course very welcome to everyone who is sitting there now. So no cheers from my three sons, unfortunately, and my wife Antoinette isn't here either. However, she can probably make up for her absence in this Chamber, because before the forthcoming elections she is on the list of candidates for the VVD and not me. Hopefully she doesn't have to wait for a change in injury time, because the VVD has given her a much nicer, more eligible place. That is no coincidence: I have to admit that Antoinette is simply a better representative of the people than I am. In a good marriage, you must know your place as a man. In addition to a good marriage and my political work, I have a strong international orientation. I was born in Africa, I went to kindergarten in France, and I travel a lot. These trips are often to help liberals in countries where freedom and equality are not as self-evident as in the Netherlands. For example, I met a good friend there who is gay and, to my surprise, has to pretend to be straight within his own borders. It's too crazy for words. And that's not the only thing I can be surprised about when I'm in those countries. But fortunately, every time I return from those trips to the Netherlands, I realize again and again what a fine and well-organized country Holland is. You'll notice even before the plane lands. You look out the window and you can see from the landscape the order of years plowing against nature, against the water, and what a beautiful country we have made of it. Waiting for the train at Schiphol Airport I can then get excited about the few minutes delay that the train has. But then when I'm on that train, it's much cleaner and much safer than on the train I was in in the country I just came from. Sometimes I hear fellow passengers complaining and then I wonder if they realize how good it is here. Then I think quietly: go to Kosovo for a few days! Nevertheless, the complaints of those fellow passengers are good. Our Dutch directness ensures that we do not sit back enough, but make the Netherlands even better step by step. The subject of this debate also underlines for me how nice it is to live in the Netherlands. My children enjoy their youth in freedom and go to good schools. As real Dutch people, they complain about the amount of homework in the afternoon and when they have to take out the garbage bags, they say it's child labour. But fortunately we don't know that anymore in the Netherlands. I shouldn't think that my boys would have to do heavy work from 7:00 to 7:00 in the morning under horrible conditions. That goes against everything we stand for in the Netherlands, against everything I stand for as a liberal; kids deprived of their freedom and deprived them of the chance to make their own lives what they want. In the Netherlands, the first step against child labour was taken with the child law of Van Houten. That was in 1874. I am proud that this important step has been taken by liberals. In the meantime, the concerns are being widely borne and much progress has been made. Thanks to the great commitment of colleague Van Laar, both within the Lower House and beyond, this very important subject of child labour continues to receive much-needed attention. I'd like to thank him for that. The VVD would also like to thank him for all the hard work on this initiative legislative proposal on child labour. It clearly shows the role of the co-legislator, which we have here, but it still requires some hard work. There is no shortage of good intentions in this bill. The initiator presents a solution to a persistent problem, child labour, and wants to eliminate it completely. He makes an important point: companies that lead the way are punished. They are punished for being more easily associated with child labour through transparency over their chain. The VVD appreciates this conclusion from the initiator, but does not agree with the aforementioned solution. It considers that there is sufficient existing national and international legislation to pursue the same standard and, despite the changes made by the initiator, has serious doubts about the effectiveness of the proposal. The VVD Group attaches great importance to the transparency of companies. It also sees great success in the existence and development of the import agreements, which the Minister is committed to. However, the VVD opposes criminalisation through this initiative law in case the chains of companies are linked to child labour. Companies can already be criminalised within existing international regulations. A new law punishing companies if they fail to comply with their duty of care therefore seems undesirable and unnecessary to the VVD Group. After all, the will of industry to eradicate child labour is already great in the Netherlands and the chain is often difficult to oversee. The example mentioned by the initiators, namely that companies leading the way are punished, remains unchanged with this initiative law. Therefore, the VVD strongly encourages a voluntary link to contribute to results and efforts in cooperation with civil society. This is already being developed in the above-mentioned import agreements. The VVD sees many opportunities for these agreements and is convinced that an increasing number of companies will commit to them. She also attaches great importance to the Dutch locational climate and maintaining a level playing field. Before we build up legislation that can unnecessarily hinder companies in these areas, the VVD considers it wiser to wait for the progress of the imvo-conventants. The Minister has started to work with this and there is still sufficient room for further action. The prevention of imports and sales of products likely to be produced by child labour is complicated. As several studies have shown, this can often not be completely excluded or prevented. Unfortunately. How can the initiator proceed to fine companies if there is no certainty as to whether child labour is intertwined in the production chain? In the case of repeated offences, he even intends to pursue criminal proceedings against directors. No frivolous procedure. Given the large grey area within this subject, this is not something the VVD would like to move on to. It is very reluctant to do so and also supports the opinion of the Council of State, namely that this proposal does not guarantee any reduction in sales of the wrong products. The initiator indicates that due care is taken as long as it is in line with OECD standards. Can he indicate what his own-initiative proposal adds now that this is already common practice? Businesses must already comply with OECD standards. In conclusion, it must be said that the motivation of the initiator is highly commendable. However, legislation must have added value, must be effective and must not be unnecessarily obstructive. The VVD is not convinced that this proposal fulfils those conditions. For a good Netherlands, we also need good legislation. Unfortunately, we do not see them in this case. So the VVD is opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u6	That brings you to the end of your speech. Thank you for your important speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u7	It is my pleasure to be the first to congratulate you. It is a speech in which you make a statement about your motivation, but at the same time you also make some relativisation and through the alleged child labour of your children you can easily get to the subject, which you then serve off. That is, of course, the choice of the group. I shall suspend this sitting for a moment so that your colleagues can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u8	Yes, Mr Geselschap, you will immediately see how things work here in the Chamber: once you have made your maiden speech, your entire group will leave you and you will only be in the company of the colleagues who are doing the same thing. But we will be happy to spend the evening with you. Mr. Chairman. For the Child Labour Care Duty Act, I would like to thank the initiator very much. Tonight, I would also like to express my special thanks to the President, who wanted to perform my duties as President of the plenary because I would like to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u9	You don't get such an opportunity every day, after all, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u10	Let's get to the bottom of it. Kids should be in school, not a factory. Let them develop knowledge, not blisters of hard work. Give them chemistry at school, not a cloud of chemicals to give jeans a wash effect. Let them learn about human rights at universities, rather than being tortured out of the sight of a union. We must do what we can to prevent child labour. The horror of this, you don't want anyone. I would like to thank the initiator, but also the staff who are assisting him for the proposal before us, because it is still happening far too much and sometimes very close to us. Syrian children are working in Turkey because their parents are not allowed to work there. Children in Asia choke labels in the backs of brands that we here assume are child labour-free. However, we do not often talk about child labour in this Chamber. It's also a difficult subject. It's hard to find the brackets you could do anything about. A good intention alone does not make everything effective, does not always produce results and sometimes even ignores the problem. I still have concerns about what this bill delivers in practice. In order to overcome this, I have tabled a number of amendments and I shall put the necessary questions here. In order to bring about a real structural change, a movement on all sides will be needed, first and foremost at the companies themselves. Apart from market incentives, they must feel the need not to become part of what is, in fact, a criminal activity: child labour. Fortunately, this is becoming increasingly apparent in business, for example in the form of CSR agreements. With child labour, you deprive children of the right to work at school for their own future. Too often the responsibility for the actions taken by companies lies with the CSR department. It shouldn't be like that. It must be an integral part of your operations. In this proposal, this bill gives a little support. Is it enough? Is it sufficiently effective? I have doubts. I'm not sure about the supervisor's budget. How much budget does the minister's supervisor get to carry out the tasks under this law properly? The initiator assumes a maximum of 1 million euros per year, to be found within existing funds. Is that enough and where do we get that money from? Isn't it at the expense of something else that we also consider important? How many people with what expertise are going to be hired for that money? How much time and costs go to registering the statements? How expensive will an average complaint treatment be? How many complaints do we expect? And if it is necessary to investigate a complaint, for example because an NGO has filed a complaint against a company, how expensive would it be for that company to refute such a complaint? Does that have to be out of the 1 million budget, or does it pay for it? How are these costs distributed? How high does the applicant actually expect this type of cost to be on average? The bill explicitly states that the company is responsible for proving the unsubstantiated nature of the complaint. In addition, there are questions about the supervisory authority. Is it allowed to enter a factory or a field in Bangladesh or Turkey, for example, against the will of an owner? If that is not the case, what are the chances that a request for assistance will be properly implemented in countries that are lax in their legislation and practice in taking action against child labour? A sad observation that has also been made in other debates with the Minister is that there is an incentive in these countries to keep this economic activity, even if it is in this way. How do we deal with this tension? I will come back to the final point. If not, how can such a company prove that the complaint is unfounded? Some of these concerns also reflect the scope of the law. Who's in it or not? For companies based in the Netherlands, it is clear. But we live in a digital age and we have open borders within the European Union. Do we not run the risk of a web designer registering his business in Germany in Roermond, even though the share of child labour in this area is less easily proven? More and more is being digitized, programmed and so on. You never know what it could all extend to. In order to avoid circumvention of the law, companies which are not established in the Netherlands must also issue a child labour certificate if they sell something to a Dutchman at least twice a year. But how can you know about companies in Mexico or Bangladesh what it means if they sell something to the Netherlands twice a year over the internet? How can you expect all these companies to know the Dutch law? Is it fair to have a Romanian artist, an Italian web designer or a Slovakian office start with a warning rather than a clean slate? And how does the supervisor even know whether such a company sells to the Netherlands twice? You'd almost wonder if it wouldn't be troubling if he knew that. And how do NGOs know that they will probably be the main proposers of the complaints? Should they place two orders at amazon.com to ensure that this company falls within the scope of the law? Is that the point? Or is the applicant going to check in another way whether there really is a structural relationship and whether the company is actually targeting its activities in the Netherlands? This formula is also used in European legislation on electronic commerce. Wouldn't that be an interesting formula, I ask the initiator. I would like to receive a response from both the initiator and the Minister on the previous questions, if she wishes to add certain things to this debate on this point. In my block on business, I will come back to the statement to be made. That explanation is form-free. This is, of course, very pleasant to reduce the administrative burden as much as possible. When considering what this law costs and generates, low administrative burdens are, of course, a very good move through a form-free explanation. Such a statement may include a detailed plan on how production is monitored and how deep the chain is looked. This will often be possible for companies with their own products. But for many other companies, such a shop with all kinds of euro products in the average shopping street, that will be a lot more difficult. Such a store is actually a pass-through door for products from others. For example, the euro shop, the Action and the Xenos. You can't advertise here, but I can name a lot of them. Those stores are buying products. They should then ask their supplier if he wants to contract with those who deliver to him, that production takes place without child labour. I wonder whether this will be possible before 2020. If you really want to record it, it has to be included in the contracts. You don't want every entrepreneur to have to re-negotiate contracts with all its suppliers at once, because despite the fact that the declaration is form-free, that creates a lot of additional administrative burdens. Stopping the sale of a product is also not possible because of an existing contract. How does the initiator view this? Could the Minister at this point agree that the AMvB on the declarations is formulated in such a way that a company can make agreements at the time when an existing contract expires or is being amended? I think that would help entrepreneurs and avoid a lot of additional administrative burdens. If you then conclude a contract again, you can make it part of the negotiations by asking the supplier for such a statement. I ask the initiator and the Minister if they will find a solution. Consumers are the second party needed for the cover. Of course, this bill is aimed at them in the first instance. If they want to buy massively responsible products, the market will follow itself. For this to happen, the information must be easily accessible. Anyone who buys a sweater, a chair or a bag of green beans should be able to see on the packaging or should be able to assume that child labour is excluded. Do the initiator and the minister share this view? A good step in this direction would be for the register of statements to be publicly accessible, free of charge and easily searchable automatically. To ensure that, I have tabled an amendment. I understand that the Christian Union has come up with exactly the same idea, so there seems to be a good cooperation ahead of me. NGOs will then be able to verify very well by using the brand name and the declarations issued that these companies are indeed doing what they have promised and whether there is no greenwashing. Then there's the criminality. Anyone who fails to act carefully twice within five years may be punished by imprisonment. However, it is often a question of legal entities, which you cannot put in prison. So it's about the drivers, but I have some practical questions about that. What if those drivers switch in the meantime? Who's threatened with jail time? The original driver at the time of the first fine? Or the driver under whose responsibility the company went wrong for the second time? Or a third party who was there but was not initially accepted for it? Or a fourth that has been hired to clean up the ruins of the predecessors? The VVD pointed out that the Council of State has stated that there is no guarantee that the bill will work. But there's no guarantee it won't work either. When do you have a guarantee? At some point, you're gonna have to start weighing up odds. This is a subject that is difficult to address, but we would all like to do something about it. What opportunities do we have to do something about it? If you don't try, don't you actually accept the existing situation? The current situation is not sufficient for my group. On the other hand, you don't want symbol legislation either. But when will we know what the effect of that law is? Don't we know that only after we've had some experience with it? That is why I tabled an amendment to withdraw the law by Royal Decree when it appears that the balance between the intentions and the meaning in practice does not work in a way that this Chamber says: we are letting it continue. If the evaluation shows that the law works well, it's just gonna exist, but if it doesn't work, we could rescind it. I think that the incorporation of such a clause could upset the balance, but I would first like an answer from the initiator and the Minister to the questions I have asked, so that we can say on this difficult subject: let us try it before we serve it off. The first evaluation is scheduled for 2025. Let that also be the year in which, as we agreed with each other, we want child labour out of the world. That seems to me to be a very good time for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u11	You will be aware that my group is still wrestling with the question of what to do with this bill. That is something I taste a little bit about Mrs Van Veldhoven. She says that perhaps there should be more money for the supervisor to maintain this, because it is already busy and already has a lot on the bike; maybe more than he can handle. Doesn't that apply to the state's attorney's office, too? The initiator says the D.A.'s office doesn't maintain. There's a criminal route, but the D.A. doesn't have the capacity to do that. So you could also say the following. We have the agreements and the enforcement through the D.A.'s office. If we gave that more priority and more budget, wouldn't that be a route? This allows you to comply with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u12	Preferably, you won't get involved in criminal enforcement. What I like about this initiative proposal is that, by making these declarations compulsory, you increase the pressure on companies to think about it all over the company and make it a possible part of the business strategy. Then the company becomes more vulnerable to failing to comply with the explanations it has made. I would therefore also like the register to be transparent. Because you have to be transparent about what you do as a company and what you stand for, consumers can also vote more with their feet. Do we think this company is doing enough, yes or no? Which means you might not even have to let it all go through the D.A.'s office. 'Cause of course you don't want to. But I share what Mr Dijkgraaf says. We simply have a number of questions here. It's a very commendable goal, but you do want something effective. That has been the reason for me to say: if we now include an evaluation with the possibility of repealing the law if it turns out that the balance in practice is not good, then the evaluation can certainly clarify this point too, which seems to me to be very important. We'll try, and then the evaluation will show us how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u13	In any case, I think it would be a good amendment to table. Then we can see how it works. An advantage of the Public Prosecutor's Office is the power of action beyond our national borders. The Authority Consumer & Market has no jurisdiction there. The D.A. can do things there through the routes that there are. The problems are beyond our borders. Isn't that an important route? Should we not give more priority to the state attorney's office, perhaps apart from this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u14	D66 is strongly in favour of having sufficient resources for the D.A.'s office. Mr Dijkgraaf is aware of this. This also applies to the supervisory authorities. Again and again we ask the cabinet: are there enough resources for it, do we allow these important bodies to carry out their work properly and properly? But also for the public prosecutor it remains a long journey if it wants to achieve something outside the national borders. You can also achieve effect outside our borders without getting to the D.A., because someone who wants to sell stuff here in the Netherlands is going to look at their suppliers and negotiate with them. If a supplier says not to issue such statements, then the seller can say: then I have a preference for another supplier. The beauty of this is that it also has an effect outside our national borders, without it being dependent on regulation or its enforcement. So it can have an effect. Whether or not there is, the evaluation will have to prove it. But I do see the possibility that it will have an effect. I find that very interesting. You are going to create in the chain a dynamic that is inherent to the chain, without the government having to stand there every time to control it. There will then be a market reality that will ensure that this is done. I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u15	Very clear. The same applies to all questions raised by the D66 Group. I recognize the questions. I will not repeat many of them either. My question to the D66 Group is as follows. At the moment all covenants are being created. There too, you could make very clear agreements on child labour. Let me be clear. The CDA group is off the route: first we create these covenants and very clearly leave them hanging over the market that, if things are not going well, that law is going to become a possibility and thus indicate that it is not without obligation what we are all doing here. How does the D66 Group view this? Actually, I hear Mrs Van Veldhoven say: do the law first and then we'll see if it works or not, and possibly we'll continue on another route. I find it difficult to assess exactly how Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u16	Covenants are a very important route. This has been under way for a long time. The CSR policy isn't yesterday's. Fortunately, many companies have been working on this for a long time. That has also shown that the effect is growing, fortunately. But enforcement in the case of manifest violations is more difficult. I think it would be a sign of confidence if companies were to say: we are prepared not only to record it in a covenant, to attach our name to it, but also to record it in a statement under a law. It is an even firmer statement of a company if it indicates: this is the direction we want to go in. We're not talking about anything. We're talking child labour here. We're talking about 10-year-old kids in a chemical plant. We're talking about things we all don't want, which the CDA doesn't want. I know how hard it is to do something with this. Therefore, with all the questions I have left, I appreciate the intention of the initiator to really try to get those children out of that factory by making it even more difficult for a company to stick to just good words or to limit it to one department within the company. The whole company has to understand: we have to realize this, we can't close our eyes in our place in the chain and we're just going to ask the other parties in our chain for an explanation that they don't either. So I really like that chain work. In my opinion, this bill is better than agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u17	Then there's one more question. You can tackle the problem in many different ways. The colleague of the VVD also indicated other routes. The CDA is very much on the route of the covenants: let's give them a serious chance. In fact, Mrs Van Veldhoven states here in her first term: yes, but is 2020 feasible at all? At least that's what I heard her say. To what extent does it give the covenants a serious chance if it already opts for legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u18	First of all, let me say this. I have asked a lot of questions and, depending on the answer, my group will decide its final position. This is a bill that we are struggling with in terms of intentions and their effectiveness; Mr Dijkgraaf formulated it exactly. But if it all works like it's meant to, if those questions are answered properly and we don't just have to believe Mr. Van Laar on... I don't think he has blue eyes, but if we don't just have to rely on his assessment of it, but also really evaluate it, then I think we're talking about a problem that we want out of the world by 2025. I don't see this as something that makes the covenants superfluous. I see this as an extra bottom under the covenants. Companies then take it so seriously that they are even prepared to record it in a statement that a legal regime is bound by. That test is perhaps also very good to make sure that we know for sure that I have two kids myself really can go to school and not stand in a factory. That is still happening a great deal; Mrs Mulder knows that very well. The subject is so important that I think we should be extra careful in looking at what we can do. That's not a guarantee; I share that. I am absolutely in favour of the covenants, let there be no misunderstanding about that, but I think this can strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u19	I wanted to interrupt to ask why we should not wait for the success of the covenants and why we should not try them first, but I really cannot say anything other than that I fully agree with the CDA colleague. The agreements are much more proportionate. So I'm gonna focus my interruption on something else. You yourself indicate how complicated it is when you have all kinds of suppliers, who have suppliers themselves. But isn't that difficulty, which you acknowledge yourself, the reason why your criminalisation, which is really the most serious means we have in our legislative range, applies in such an unclear situation? That seems disproportionate to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mr Geselschap believes that the covenants are a much more proportionate instrument, but it depends on how important you think this is. I did hear a passionate argument from Mr Geselschap about the importance of combating child labour. We have the goal of getting child labour out of the world by 2025, but next to those fine words I hear that the VVD, as often happens, is totally unwilling to do anything for that purpose. And actually doing something sometimes means trying something that you're not sure will have all the effects you're hoping for. However, this must be related to the importance of the subject. I would almost like to ask the VVD: how much does it matter to you, except for all the fine words you spoke about it? If it really matters to you, and it really matters to me, then you're even prepared to do something so complicated as criminalisation. Of course we have to dress that up properly. We also have a few questions about that. I also asked how as a company you can prove your innocence. But if it really matters to you and you don't want to lose any more generations before 2025, it's time to do something, because it still happens on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u21	You will hear whatever interruptions you have been spared thanks to your maiden speech, Mr. Fellowship. What's your follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u22	We are all particularly concerned in this Chamber, from left to right. I'm sure of it. We are very much opposed to this by 150 men and women. You say, "Let's try this." But the chapter of the covenants is just not closed yet. Why can't you wait until we've really tried? This Chamber has also made available a budget for another initiative by Mr Van Laar, the child labour fund. Why, for example, can we not use this to strengthen these agreements even further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u23	I think I will come back to the answer I just gave to Mrs Mulder. I don't think it's either-or. If this really matters to you and it is not just beautiful words, you should also be willing to write that down seriously and to be tested for compliance with it. If you are willing to be checked for compliance, you also have no objection to this being recorded somewhere in a register. If you say "my clothes are child labour-free," an NGO can just see if that's true. That's all the bill does. It doesn't draw up any new rules. The legislative proposal simply contains the rules that all kinds of companies in the Netherlands have long signed and recognised and which they say we stand for with our whole heart. Well, then it's not as bad as someone checks it out for once, is it? 'Cause then you've always been good at making sure you really do that, haven't you? The covenants are a very good means of further filling in how the rules we have all endorsed work in a particular sector and how a sector can properly take responsibility for them. Of course, it's not a digital system. So you always have to fill it in. So the covenants and the bill can fit together in a good way. I have asked a number of questions about this and I would like them answered. But that contradiction is a sham contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u24	Clear. Did you finish your contribution with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u25	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u26	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Fellowship, on his beautiful maiden speech. We also look forward to his successor, who is going to do a lot better than he is, according to himself. 168 million children worldwide should go to school and be working on their future, but they are forced to work. In countries such as India, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Turkey, Mali and Congo, children do not attend school, but work in mines, factories or land. During my visits to those countries, I saw how children spend days in the hot sun pulverizing stones in the mines with a hammer. They work on raw materials and products that also end up in our stores. The Christian Union finds that impossible. I therefore welcome the initiative taken by Mr Van Laar and his staff to come forward with this bill. The Christian Union has been working for a long time in the House of Representatives to combat child labour, also together with Mr Van Laar, for example by structuralally continuing the motion on the child labour fund. The Christian Union is also in favour of a legal lower limit to protect human rights in production chains and to give companies a legal duty of care. They must do everything in their power to prevent child labour throughout their production chain. That should be additional to the agreements where we do not always see good progress. Covenants are useful tools to support companies in improving human rights, but legally, every company should have a duty of care to respect human rights. I still have a number of questions about the legislative proposal, for example on the content and scope. The Christian Union would prefer to extend the law even further. As far as we are concerned, there will also be a legal limit for forced labour and modern slavery. The framework of John Ruggie, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, requires that companies' duty of care to respect human rights be properly laid down by law. The framework therefore has three elements. One: the duty of the state to protect people from human rights violations by third parties. Two: the corporate social responsibility to respect human rights. Three: the victims' right to access legal remedies in the event of violations. These principles are still not well laid down in Dutch legislation. The petitioner now wants to translate part of the second principle, responsibility to protect, into legislation. I ask the author why he leaves the first and third starting points outside the law, namely recovery and redress. This law does not directly help the victims of human rights violations through better access to justice or compensation. Moreover, child labour is only one important ILO standard. According to international human rights agreements, companies must also combat forced labour and modern slavery. Isn't it better to record this right away, including by laying down the principle of due diligence widely? It is then about mapping and reducing risks in business operations. I refer, for example, to the law recently adopted in the United Kingdom: the Modern Slavery Act. It came into force last year. Switzerland knows the Responsible Business Initiative. This provides for the introduction of a legal imvo. It is a duty of care for Swiss companies. Why didn't the initiator choose that route? I have an amendment on that point too. The legislative proposal opts for the age limit of 13 years for child labour. I say to the initiator that this will have major consequences. The ILO Convention explicitly refers to 15 years. There is indeed, as the author says, an exception for light work. That may not be difficult, it may not be at the expense of health or education. If we adopt this law in this way, a lot of children will still end up in or remain in child labour. Just think of all the plantations that we have had a lot of debates about. In Turkey children simply stay away from school because they have to go with their parents to cotton plantations and other plantations. So they're really missing out on education. So why wasn't that age set to 15? I have also tabled an amendment on that point. The initiative law chooses to impose a duty of care on every company in the Netherlands in order to identify and reduce risks. For many companies this duty of care will not be relevant, for example because they work within the Dutch borders or only decrease from countries where the ban on child labour is well enforced. Why did not the applicant opt for an obligation limited to risk sectors and imports from risk countries? That's actually the system the Americans know. By means of a global risk analysis, the government can appoint risk countries and risk sectors in an AMvB. This also makes the legislative proposal more focused on the high-risk countries and sectors. Think of sectors such as clothing, shoes, natural stone, precious metal and tropical fruit. Of course, the company's duty remains to investigate for itself whether a production chain extends to a country at risk. I would like to hear a response on this point. I come to the point of consumers. I agree with Mr Van Veldhoven, who says: let's make it public immediately when companies make a statement to the ACM. For example, consumers know that companies have registered there when it comes to banning child labour. We will undoubtedly be putting our heads together to see if we can come up with a joint amendment. The bill chooses to appoint the ACM as a supervisor. The Christian Union would like to broaden the ACM into an authority for people, the environment and the market. Unfortunately, however, we have not yet reached this stage. The ACM now focuses on competition and consumer rights. For example, the ACM will not check for respect for human rights and cannot carry out checks abroad. Why don't we introduce a stronger supervisor who's actually guarding the level playing field? We now see in the covenants that there is a lack of a supervisor, so that the agreements are very non-binding and many companies shun their responsibilities, including in the clothing sector. I would like to hear a response from the author on that point. I have one more point on the starting date of 1 January 2020. I ask the author whether he does not think it is too late and why he chose that date. He says companies have to get used to this new law. However, the ILO Convention has been in place for decades. The standards in the bill cannot come as a complete surprise. Moreover, we can already expect companies to commit themselves to preventing child labour. Why not opt for an earlier start date? In conclusion, I also have a question for the Minister. Last week we had a debate with the Minister on imvo. I also asked a question about ISEAL, the dome of labels. I asked if it would allow us to develop some kind of leverage for products that we do not want to accept at the border. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. It is important that every child can go to school to work on his or her future. I remember the story of Aisha of 13 years, who lives in Turkey. When asked what he wanted to become later, he said: I want to be a doctor. However, he works on a cotton field to harvest raw materials for our cheap clothing. A few months later I met him again at that same plantation at the hazelnut pick for our chocolate paste. It is important that Dutch companies carefully examine their production chains for human rights violations and take action with a plan to set up child labour-free zones and allow children to go to school, so that Aisha can realize his dream later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u27	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my new colleague, Mr Geselschap. Success in this injury time of the House of Representatives! It's been very much to your liking. Then, of course, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Laar of the PvdA Group and his people, who have worked very hard for him. Creating an initiative law takes a lot of time and energy, and I appreciate it very much when people from the Lower House take the initiative. The subject that Mr Van Laar has chosen for his own initiative law is of great concern to me, namely child labour and the duty of care that he sees in it. The intention behind this law, the elimination of child labour, really supports the CDA. Of course, kids should just go to school. My grandfather, as a worker, saw the importance of this as well, and that led to my father becoming a teacher and then going to college. So you can see through the generations what effect it has. I share the fact that this issue is extremely important with the PvdA Group and my other colleagues in the Chamber. I'm still very grateful to my grandfather for seeing that importance of education. My other grandfather was very busy doing business. I am also very grateful to him for that, because I got quite a bit of that. That education is important and that entrepreneurship can also take you out of poverty: these are two things that are very important. During the discussion of Mr Van Laar's own-initiative paper, I indicated on behalf of the CDA that I had practical objections to a number of points. No matter how good the goal is, we must all avoid creating a false reality with a lot of bureaucratic slugs, without really solving the problem. That's what I'm struggling with. My question to the author is therefore to what extent he thinks that the ban will also contribute to solving the problem effectively. Can he go into that again in detail? How far does the accompanying policy go and how can the Public Prosecutor's Office maintain? I also ask these questions to the Minister. According to the CDA, we should be fully committed to the agreements on international corporate social responsibility. At the moment that these covenants do not work properly, Mr Van Laar's law is very clearly presented before the CDA. That law regulates the minimum and is therefore, in our opinion, the final piece of legislation. The covenants should be the beginning and therefore they should regulate much more. We want child labour to be eliminated throughout the chain, because the risks are in the whole chain. The CDA is therefore committed to this integrated approach. We should also use the sectoral agreements for this purpose. I therefore sympathise with the statement made by the spokesperson of the Christian Union that, in the first instance, we should tackle precisely those sectors where the risks are greatest. Of course that is happening, because the problems at that factory in Bangladesh have led us to have a covenant in the area of textiles. Of course, there's still a bit of a tooth left. That is also what my colleague Mustafa Amhaouch said in the Chamber in debates with the Minister. We think it is important that it is certainly not non-binding. I have just mentioned this in the brief debate I had with Mr Van Veldhoven. Child labour varies in intensity in different sectors. Of course, we do not find any form acceptable, but I think we should start where the problems are greatest. That is why we believe that the agreements are ultimately more enriching than the law sec. That is why we believe that every covenant should contain a very clear child labour paragraph or a very clear child labour article. Now we see a list in the first textile agreement. My question to Mr Van Laar is what more points he would like to see incorporated into those agreements, which he believes are still lacking, which would enable you to deal with child labour properly. That's the same question I'm asking the Minister. Of course, Mr Van Laar will say that those points are in his law, I understand that, but perhaps there are some steps that can be taken with those agreements on child labour. How does the Minister view this and what role does she see for herself in this regard? How can it further strengthen that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u28	You finished this little piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u30	Then there will be an interruption by Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u31	I follow the argument well. The CDA indicates an orderality. Mrs Mulder says: let us first settle these agreements, then we can always look at this law. What is the basis for maintaining that order? Those covenants are much broader, aren't they just about child labour? I thought those two things could work very well side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u32	The CDA first looks at how things can be resolved in a good way on a voluntary basis in all forms of policy. It is only after that that we want to come up with a ban. This is how we always look at legislation. So that's how we look at this case. We do not think that at the moment there is enough detail on the agreements. We have not given ourselves enough time and space to do so in a good way. That is the order we want to use. We do the same with other forms. That's what we choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u33	I would say to the CDA that under the UN Framework we are obliged to legally anchor this due diligence. It is simply stated in the UN directives that each Member State must anchor this in the law. We have this proposal and we also have the covenants, which go much wider and sectoral. It is not a question of order which we must pursue, first of all on a voluntary basis and then looking further. These are obligations arising from the directives that we have received from the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u34	We must also look at the fair playing field. We have to deal with this in a good way. We see that not all parts of the world have yet been laid down by law. I therefore believe that we should follow the route to apply the covenants in a good way first. I'll talk to companies if they don't deliver. I would like to make it very clear in this Chamber that this matter is not voluntary and not non-binding. This is really something the companies should do as far as we are concerned. Of course, it also has to do with the agreements we have made internationally to do something about this together. However, we must look at the order in which we do so. The CDA is clear about that. It may not be the order that Mr Voordewind has in mind, but this is our order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u35	I'm gonna keep going on this one anyway. I'm trying to look on the bright side. I do hear the intention and the will of the CDA to look at such a stick behind the door, if necessary. I think that's very positive. Well, I'm looking for the moment that stick comes into the picture. Sectoral agreements are of course very good, but by definition only cover a limited number of sectors. Moreover, there is no guarantee that within a sector all companies will be covered by that covenant. Is it not the intention of this proposal of the law to show this stick for the companies which are now outside the agreements, so the companies which are operating in another sector or do not want to participate in the sectors which are covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u36	I think a lot of companies should be aware of that. If companies think of getting away with this and do not support the covenants, they know that this legislation does come into play. This seems to me to be a stick behind the door for these companies to reconsider whether they should continue in the way they have done so far, or whether they should do more to do good for the children concerned, in order to prevent child labour. I really see that as a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u37	That is interesting, because the companies participating in Minister Ploumen's covenants are doing well and, by the time this law comes into force, they will be able to demonstrate their efforts by 2020. They don't need that stick anymore. Then we come to exactly the order that the CDA is looking for: four years from now, when everyone has had the time to participate in their covenant and is thus already ready, remaining for the other companies within the sectors in which they are already working, and for the other sectors exactly the stick that the CDA is looking for. Isn't that order in the timetable provided for by the author?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u38	I understand that Mr Servaes sees it that way. That is how the author sees it, but we really want to give the participants in the covenants the room to live up to the intentions in a good way. I think that our companies are at the forefront and I think it is wonderful that the Minister has picked this up in this way, so I would also like to congratulate him on that. I think everyone in the Netherlands knows that the entire House of Representatives is committed to this. We are not gonna get rid of this with a whiff of lead. We want this to be done and I see the order of things as I have just outlined. I can also see that we are not getting closer to each other now, but who knows how the petitioner and also the minister will respond in the near future. I will take the answers back to my group. Right now, I'm clearly indicating what we think is the right order. We want to give all the space and opportunity to live up to the agreements. Otherwise, we're gonna put ourselves on hold, and that's not what the CDA wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u39	What is the order of things in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u40	We very much want the agreements to be worked out and steps to be taken quickly. That's a little slow right now. That is also what my colleague Amhaouch, who is the spokesman in this area, said in my knowledge in debate with the Minister. We want to give this time for a number of years, because you are asking a lot of entrepreneurs. The question is also: Mrs Van Veldhoven asked in her first term whether 2020 is not actually too early to introduce this law. I think that you should give business the opportunity to take the necessary steps for a number of years. Let me run it against the microplastics. I think they should disappear from make-up, because they all flush through our drain, end up in the environment, in fish, for example. Those fish we eat, and that's how we get those microplastics in. Now child labour is far worse, but I've been working on those microplastics since 2012, and it takes many years for companies to process that in a good way in their processes, that they can innovate and that they can make the necessary success. I see the same kind of route here, which takes you a little more time. That's not what I want, because I would have liked to have done it yesterday, but that's not how it works. We would like these steps to be taken. That's where I want to go, including those covenants. Fortunately, we have a minister for this, who, on our behalf and with our support, continues to exert considerable pressure to ensure that these steps are actually taken out of the covenants. So what we are doing here is not without obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u41	The intention is certainly not to let it be noncommittal. I share that with Mrs Mulder, but if she does not indicate any timetable, the CDA will abandon the objective of getting child labour out of the world by 2025. If the CDA doesn't let go of that intention, then time is really running out. I know and share with the CDA that you don't go to law if you think you can solve it in another way. Then I come to the same conclusion as the PvdA just did: those companies that really want to, they will have their business in order by 2020. So the legislation still applies to those companies that think: I'm putting my name under it, but I'm not going to run so fast for it. I know, as Mrs Mulder has just said, that for these companies the stick of such a legal foundation must be in the picture, with all the comments that we still have to discuss with each other on exactly how to design that law. Is it not true that the companies that really want it do not have to make any extra effort, because they are already working seriously on these agreements? You're supposed to catch the other companies, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u42	Try to answer it a little more compactly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u43	It has to be intrinsic with companies in the system that you don't want this, throughout the company and not just in an imvo department. That's what it has to start with. That is why agreements are concluded and companies are looking at how they can handle this in a good way. At least that's what you'd expect from those companies. For Mrs Van Veldhoven 2025 must be the year in which everything must be 100% for each other. Of course we want that with each other, but it's gonna be really hard. The Netherlands is not the only country in the world, and we also want fair competition. How do we get everyone along so that we can get where we want to go? I may take a few years more time than 2020, as Mrs Van Veldhoven does, but I do want to see results from these agreements in the end. We can then, for example, look at the situation in 2023. Then we'll be two years before 2025. If we still want to take the measures provided for in the legal provision, we can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u44	Clear. There is an interruption by Mr Dijkgraaf. Mrs Van Veldhoven, we are a little stuck in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u45	I wanted an extra interruption from you just now, but I wasn't allowed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u46	No, I didn't allow that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u47	My questions were very brief. That's why I thought I'd give it a try. But we will go to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u48	In preparing for this debate, I asked a small businessman in the textile industry what he thought of this bill. In fact, I expected the answer: don't do that, because it affects me because of the administrative burden. But what did he say? He said: you have to, because I suffer from the fact that there is no level playing field in the Netherlands. I'm really trying to do this honestly, this entrepreneur said, but I also see competitors who don't do it, and that's what's bothering me. What is Mrs Mulder's answer for that entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u49	You have a number of problem sectors, the risky sectors, as Mr Voordewind of the ChristenUnion pointed out. But you also have, in a broad sense, the shopkeeper in SMEs who does the opposite. That makes it a very difficult, complicated issue. We are not here to do something very easy, because it would have been settled by then. It is simply very varied across the sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u50	That wasn't my question. Mrs Mulder actually repeats my question in a different way. My question is: what is the answer to entrepreneurs who lead the way? How do we get them a level playing field? You can never make such agreements mandatory. There's no general statement, as far as I know. Those who abuse too cheap products and child labour can still go ahead and thereby create false competition on the market. What's the CDA's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u51	I believe that such entrepreneurs will make a big commercial out of the fact that they are doing very socially responsible work in this way. There will also be consumers who see and appreciate that. This type of entrepreneur is often also very innovative. They will surely find their way in it. They will also have to be more innovative than the rest, otherwise you will not be able to do it as an entrepreneur. I am replying because I believe that this law not only deprives the entrepreneur in the textile sector who is perhaps very busy, but also entrepreneurs in other sectors of the level playing field. I'm just having a really hard time with this. That is why I say to the SGP Group: let us first do it in a good way with the covenants. Let us show that we are serious and that it is serious. In the background, there is the law that may be passed, the initiative bill that we are discussing today, which makes entrepreneurs aware that it is serious to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u52	Thank you. You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u53	No, I'm not!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u54	Then you may continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u55	The CDA asked at an earlier stage how much additional commitment to supervision this law will require. Colleagues also asked: is that amount of 1 million sufficient? In any case, we see that the public prosecutor's capacity to act abroad is lacking. This law also provides for the transfer of the crime to the Netherlands. This creates a route through administrative law to deal with this failure. According to the applicant, this would not involve any administrative burden. We have some doubts about that. Can the applicant give further clarification of this new construction, which enables the public prosecutor to investigate and order Dutch companies to be convicted because acts come under Dutch law? How does this not lead to more administrative burdens? The CDA would like the initiator to give an indication of how many children could be helped by this law. We want to know this because the initiator indicates that he wants to achieve an appropriate individual solution for each child. How does he see this and what are the financial consequences for both companies and families who are partly dependent on the money they bring in? The problem is, of course, both sides. The CDA would also like to know how companies, once they are free from child labour, can continue to be controlled. What is the Minister's view of the implementation of the law? Finally, I would like to ask whether the author has any insight into the extent to which such a law or approach takes place in other countries. What can be done in Europe to combat child labour within the European Union? I mean, from the European Union. I should hope... Although, I don't rule out the possibility of it still happening here and there. What can be done in Europe to ensure that European companies which are often located in different countries and are still subject to different legislation can produce child labour-free products and services? We would like to hear more about that. For the rest, once again, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Laar on his own-initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u56	I have a question and an invitation. I think it's important to have the CDA on board. When eliminating wrong work, PvdA and CDA always work together and also with the unions with which we feel so connected. The CNV strongly advocates such measures. I note that in Mrs Mulder's speech there are nuances in the timing. She has some legitimate questions about the implementation. I would like to invite her to sit down with the CNV and other players in the time between the first term of office and the initiator's reply. Then we can see if we can solve these more practical problems and come to a common position. Is Mrs Mulder prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u57	A conversation to clear things up is always good. I always like being willing to do that. However, I would like to say that I am not prepared to move away from the order I have just indicated. Otherwise, expectations may be raised that will not return to the debate afterwards. I want to be fair about how I stand in there. Anything that can clarify is good. I would like to talk to the CNV or to any trade union and also to the colleague of the PvdA Group. That could be Mr Servaes or Mr Van Laar himself. I'm okay with doing it like this. We've dealt with more initiative laws for fair cases together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u58	When you make an appointment, it's always important to keep expectations in order. I think we even agree on order. The question is whether the timing that Mr Van Laar has built in is sufficient or whether a little more time should be taken, as Mrs Mulder proposes. I believe that this subject should be discussed with CNV and other organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u59	There's another point. The order is important, but I have a lot of expectations of the covenants. The moment the covenants turn out to be working, I don't necessarily need that law. It's important to tell you how I feel about this. Otherwise, people might think the law will come anyway. I would like to give the covenants a serious chance, because otherwise we should skip them now and go straight to the law. I want to make that clear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u60	Who knows what kind of beauty can blossom. I call Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u61	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to Mr. Fellowship. He made a very nice speech. My grandmother used to talk about Reverend Fellowship. So when I saw that Mr. Geselschap came here in our midst, I had high expectations of that. They've come true so far. I don't know if my grandmother meant to, but it was a nice story. Thank you! Compliments to the initiator, Mr Van Laar. It's always good for a MP to do this. I would also like to thank his supporters for that. I know how much work that is because I have experienced in my own group that colleagues do. This may be a little more difficult for a small group than for a large group, but it is a lot of work besides the busy agenda that is also present in large groups. When this bill came, I was immediately motivated to look very closely at it, because I think the problem is undisputed. That is what I have heard so far in the Chamber, in fact from all parties. That is not what the debate is about, so I do not have very long speeches about it. I get to be president of a foundation that holds up a school in India. From what's going on there if those kids don't go to school and have no meaningful day fillings, from the horrible things that happen there, your hair gets up straight. If we can prevent that, it's worth a lot. So that's not where my big question is. To be honest, it is a real struggle in our group, but perhaps it is also very nice. People sometimes wonder if a debate makes sense. Very often you go into such a debate, you already know what you're going to do and then you give your opinion. This debate makes sense to me, because I am weighing: is this really effective, is this the right instrument, should we do it right now? Those questions have been raised so far. I look forward to having this debate with the initiator. Is this bill the right way to achieve this goal? Theoretically, it's at least a passable route. I think that's obvious. I haven't heard any arguments so far that you shouldn't do this at all. It's about the practical effects: does this work? I have two practical questions. The first one has already been quite discussed: is it effective? The second is: is there sufficient legal certainty? I have a few more questions about that. Is this effective? Is this really the earning model of those who abuse child labour? How does the initiator look at the chance of getting caught? It only happens when there is a complaint and there is sufficient capacity for the supervisor to actually do something with it. If we have these systems in the law and companies think "it's in the law, but nothing happens," then it's a dead letter. That will never be the intention of the initiator or ours. What about the capacity of the supervisor, the ACM? It is not just about financial and human resources, but also about powers abroad. The problem is abroad. The ACM has no jurisdiction there. How do you practically imagine if there's a suspicion that there's a problem in some African country? What can the ACM do to give it hands and feet? Or is it going to be very difficult to get the evidence in order? I ask the Minister and also the initiator how this relates to the covenants. That discussion has just been held, so I will not repeat it. Is it supplementary? Is it or-or? Is it en-and? Does it discourage the covenants? I just made a very important point in the case of interruption. You always have people who are ahead of you in a sector like this and people who are behind. Does it help to keep the people behind in the classroom? I ask the Minister why it is not primarily invested in the lack of capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office. This can, of course, be even more effective in law than the ACM. The initiator rightly says that at the moment too little is being done about this. I agree, but shouldn't we invest in it first? Then there is legal certainty. Companies have to do an investigation. Article 4.1 states: "This research complies at least with the requirements set out in the ILO-IOE Child Labour Guidance for Business." This is stated in Section 4.1.a. I have two questions about that. The ILO is very broad. It's quite a package, if you take a look at it. What exactly does the initiator mean? Can he make that even sharper? I think that if we go to the elaboration, to the implementation, that's pretty important. What exactly does that "at least" mean? Businesses may wonder what else is being demanded in relation to that research. I don't know. It's not in the bill, it's not in the explanatory statement. Am I sufficiently legally certain that the ACM, when I conduct an investigation with good intentions and there is a complaint, says: "You have indeed done well. Maybe there's a problem, but you couldn't help because you couldn't know. You couldn't have reasonably suspected"? Then there is the point of reasonable suspicion, for example, when there is transit in the chain. Suppose you have a supplier in Germany. You order from the Netherlands from a supplier in Germany. There's no direct leads. You google, you look at the annual report and you visit. However, you do have indirect clues, because it is very cheap. Then I think you should have the reasonable suspicion that there might be something going on. The answer to questions is that child labour is not being used. You state in the contract that there is no child labour and he signs it. Is that enough? I would like a clear answer to that question. In fact, it is important for the history of the law when there are court cases, and I think that will happen in order to know exactly what requirements are being made. I think we should be very sharp about that. What am I going to complicate the situation we're in when I know that this German supplier has a Thai broker with dozens of suppliers? Do I have to ask from the Netherlands not only the German, but also the Thai broker and the dozens of suppliers? It will certainly be very difficult for a small entrepreneur to do so. How do you do that? We can't do that over the Internet. How do you give that practical hands and feet? When, actually, is the main question, have you sufficiently demonstrated that you've done good research? What should be avoided is that the entrepreneur thinks that he has met the standards and that afterwards it turns out that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u62	Was that your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u63	I've got one more piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u64	I shall first give Mrs Van Veldhoven the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u65	Very nice questions, exactly at a point where I also had questions. Could we not sum this up with the question: how far do you have to look in the chain? Do you not actually ask every entrepreneur to assure his subcontractors that there is no child labour? If that German supplier signs that statement, should it not be the case that it can be held liable for those who deliver it? This is because we know that the effect of the law in this sense is that we can only maintain it properly in the Netherlands. However, it may have a trickle-down effect. Once you know that there are a lot of complaints about this German supplier, you might ask yourself whether it is logical that you should accept that statement when renewing the contract. So I should like to add something to your speech. Perhaps we can ask the initiator to respond to this further reflection. I believe that we agree that this is an important point of legal certainty for this law. How do you delineate that? When are you gonna do enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u66	A moving moment: you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u67	Mr President, this happens all the time. We also disagree sometimes, but we are professional enough to separate those moments and deal with both well. I very much agree with that, also because I have experienced such a thing in the social affairs domain with the Chain Liability Act. A gardener turned in a temp agency and he asked if it was nice with those people. A lot of Poles worked there, which turned out to be illegal afterwards. That gardener got tons of fine. As far as I'm concerned, he really did his best. He'd seriously investigated it, too. However, the company almost went overboard. That's the kind of situation I'm struggling with. How do we prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u68	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u69	If there is a reasonable presumption, there must be a plan of action. What measures are sufficient? Can the initiator say anything about that? For example, should there be evidence of effectiveness? Article 4.3 states that international directives must be complied with. These are described in the explanatory memorandum, but there are still several. Shouldn't we be setting out more clearly what exactly we're talking about, and what this plan of action has to comply with? And then I find another question interesting. How is this handled in other EU Member States and what can we learn from it? I would like to put this question to both the Minister and the initiator. Of course, we are not the only country that is struggling with this. I think it is quite right that some Members said that this kind of legislation, from the perspective of corporate social responsibility and because consumers should pay attention to this kind of thing, should not really be necessary. So I am in favour of everything that encourages that process, but at the same time we know, on the basis of market experience and various studies, that unfortunately this is not yet happening sufficiently. That is what the discussion has just been about. Mrs Mulder said that companies and producers should clearly indicate this and that market forces should do the rest. I understand that position, but over the next 20 years this will not work for those companies who deliberately abuse this situation, because they are not sensitive to it. They also aim for another segment of the market, where there is much less purchasing power. We know that a lot of consumers in the Netherlands confess it with their mouths. But when they go to the store, they don't pay attention to that kind of thing and they just look at price and quality. That is the reality. To sum up, the target is good. As far as the impact is concerned, I have the impression that a number of points still need clarification, either through an explanatory statement or through amendments. We have a few in preparation, but I would rather wait for the answer to see if they are really necessary. We are therefore very interested in the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u70	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, the use of children in the production process is prohibited by law in the Working Time Act. There is only a criminal offence in that law if child labour leads to the death or serious personal injury of the child. In addition, there is a criminal offence if the employer has been warned by an investigating officer about child labour and then continues to do so. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiator pointed out that there are many international conventions and directives to combat child labour. In my opinion, states have a responsibility to implement legally binding international law. The PVV believes that it is the responsibility of the state where child labour takes place to combat that undesirable phenomenon. But the initiator goes much further. He wants to make Dutch companies responsible to contribute to combating child labour in countries other than the Netherlands. He also wants the Dutch government to play a part in this. That's way out of line with the PVV. The PVV is against child labour, let that be clear, but fighting it is a task of the government of the country where child labour takes place. We therefore see nothing at all in criminalising and fined Dutch companies, in connection with possible foreign child labour in products they offer on the Dutch market. This initiative law will cost not only Dutch companies and the Dutch government money, but also the Dutch citizen. Indeed, products become more expensive not only because they no longer contain child labour, but also because companies will simply pass on the additional investment in complying with the obligation of care required by the Initiative Act to the asking price for the product in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u71	That Mr De Roon is critical of the bill is fine with me. Anyone here can ask their questions. However, I find this remark, quite frankly, at least curious, which is to mention it as a disadvantage that Dutch products become more expensive if they are no longer produced with child labour. You can't be serious, can you, Mr. De Roon? Surely it must be an objective that we all at least strive to ensure that these products are no longer there? If that makes them a little more expensive, can't I hope even the PVV will accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u72	The question is not whether the PVV accepts it. The question is whether the consumer accepts it. So my point of view is: leave it to the consumer to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u73	That's a little too easy for me. Mr De Roon stands behind the microphone and says: if products become more expensive because they are no longer made by children, this is bad for the Netherlands. That does not mean 'consumers', says Mr De Roon. Maybe he just needs to think about what he's actually saying with that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u74	Perhaps the spokesperson of the PvdA should think before he tries to quote me, because what he is saying there, I did not say that. I didn't say it was bad for the Netherlands. I'm just taking stock of some of the consequences of the bill. I haven't reached a conclusion yet, so don't be premature!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u75	What do you think if the products in the Netherlands become a little more expensive, if we guarantee that child labour is not used? What is the PVV's position on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u76	The position of the PVV does not matter at all. Our view is that this is what the consumer is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u77	If the position of the PVV does not matter, I wonder why Mr De Roon is standing there. He's standing there to express the PVV's position in this debate, isn't he? I repeat my question. Does the PVV find it acceptable that it is certain that there is no child labour in a product, drives up the price? So I am not asking for the consumer's opinion. I'm asking if the PVV thinks this should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u78	The art of listening is also a difficult task for the spokeswoman of D66. I'm just trying to make it clear, and that's where my argument leads, that ultimately it should be up to the consumer to decide if he wants to pay more for a product that doesn't contain child labour. What the PVV thinks of this may even differ per member of the PVV. Maybe I'm going to spend more money on a product without child labour and another member of the PVV doesn't choose that. But none of that matters. It's what the consumer wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u79	Can I assume that this also applies to animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u80	I'm not here to talk about animal welfare. I'm talking about this law right now, and that's what it's all about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u81	I see the PVV as an advocate for animal welfare. She almost always agrees with the PvdD on this point. It is in favour of a major role for the public authorities at the expense of agriculture. I can conclude from this that animal welfare is more important than human welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u82	That's a very wrong conclusion. I didn't say any of that. I'm just saying, I'm talking about this law here tonight. If you want to talk about animal welfare and its costs, you should have the discussion on this with my colleague in the group who is dealing with this issue. I'm not going to compare those things. It's about this law now. I have a certain argument about this. I will draw a conclusion and submit it to the Chamber, the petitioner and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u83	If De Roon thinks the consumer should make his choice, will the PVV still have to vote for this bill? This bill makes it possible, if the statements become public, that consumers can see: hey, those companies have issued a statement with the ACM and those companies do not. Then they can make a choice. Mr De Roon must be absolutely in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u84	No, I'm not big on this proposal. What this proposal ultimately comes down to is the criminalisation of companies. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u85	Mr De Roon started with: let those consumers make their choice now. If the companies have nothing to hide, can't they just come forward with a statement? Then consumers can make a fair choice: I don't buy from that company and I buy from that company. That only helps consumer choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u86	Again, this bill criminalizes companies and I don't want to do that. That won't be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u87	Mr De Roon continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u88	In addition, this initiative law also costs money to the Dutch citizen who is a taxpayer, because the government must also charge for monitoring and enforcing this initiative law. The money needed for this comes back from the taxpayer's wallet. Then I come to the point that the Council of State has already found, namely doubt as to the effectiveness of this law. Even if you think this law might be a solution, there's still some doubt whether it's going to work. Now I hear one of the spokesmen in this Chamber say: well, there's also doubt if it doesn't work. But of course you should not approach spending taxpayers' money in this way. You shouldn't say: I doubt if it works, but I also doubt if it doesn't work, so let's do it! Then we're gonna gamble a little bit with the taxpayers' money. You shouldn't do any of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u89	This borders on entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u90	I didn't even mention a name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u91	I was actually inspired by the SGP...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u92	I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u93	...who made a comment about animal welfare. I could imagine that you would react to that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u94	This was a slip. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u95	It was an open-ended shot. I remember the PVV once argued in favour of spending taxpayers' money on the animal police. In order to protect animal welfare, the PVV considered it important that tax money was spent on it. Were we sure that was gonna work? No. The reason why we were not sure is perhaps again the abolition of the animal police. So sometimes you try something that you hope will work. Then you evaluate it. If it turns out not to work, then you do something else, but you do it because you really attach to that subject and you want to try everything you can to make a difference anyway. The question before the PVV is: does child labour really care about the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u96	At the PVV there was absolutely no doubt that the animal police were going to work. The fact that it did not work in the end was a matter for the police leadership, who said: we would rather put those policemen in for something other than for the animal police. Those animal police have simply turned their necks without the actual or non-working of them being detected by others who may have doubted it. My group did not doubt it. We still have no doubt about it. If we get the chance, we will come back with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u97	Apparently, others felt differently about that, especially the police. The PVV is therefore willing to give priority to and pay taxpayers' money for animals, but not for combating child labour. Can Mr De Roon comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u98	I already have, but I'd like to repeat it again. You can say, like this spokeswoman of D66: you can doubt whether this law works, but you can also doubt if it doesn't work, so let's do it! Of course, that's insane. Then you're really gambling. You are in doubt and yet you are going to say: I am gambling with the taxpayers' money and we will see how it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u99	A brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u100	Mr President, this was entrapment, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u101	This was entrapment, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u102	In many forms of legislation there is a normal evaluation clause. That's just standard usage. If you introduce that standard usage into this law for all due care, that has nothing to do with gambling. It's trusting what this bill could do. But weighing the effects against each other is a normal use. When adopting legislation, it is a normal practice to evaluate the effects. That was all I wanted to say about that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u103	I think that is a perfectly normal stupid way of dealing with taxpayers' money:...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u104	The positions are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u105	"We don't know if it's gonna end well, but we're just gambling with it!" Apparently D66 likes to do that, but the PVV is not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u106	It was no longer a question, so you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u107	If influence from our country has to be exercised to combat child labour in other countries, the PVV believes that this must be done by the influence consumers can exert in their buying behaviour. The initiator pointed out that it is not easy for consumers to know whether a product from abroad was produced by child labour. That may be so, but there are plenty of civil society organisations, both in our country and abroad, that can warn about this. It is ultimately up to the consumer to look into this, to take account of it and, if necessary, to adapt his buying behaviour to it. It is up to the consumer to decide whether or not he wants to buy the more expensive product that has not preceded child labour. This draft law essentially shows that the initiator has no confidence in the consumer's commitment and judgement. This whole draft initiative is essentially a vote of no confidence against the consumer. We consider this initiative law to be a typical example of PvdA-betutteling. The moral standard of the initiator, with which he wants to embrace the whole world, he wants to impose on everyone in our country. The PVV doesn't support him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u108	Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that the PVV is against gambling with public money. I assume that means that this time the PVV's election programme will be properly passed on by the Central Planning Office. I congratulate my fellow flair on his entertaining maiden speech. It was absolutely a pleasure. I welcome him as the eighth foreign minister who made the switch in this Chamber alone. I hope the Minister still has enough people left in the department to keep doing the job. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiator of this initiative law, knowing what work has preceded it. For this initiative law, Mr Van Laar's own-initiative paper on banning products related to child labour was also published and last year, on his initiative, the Fund for Combating Child Labour was set up under the budget, a fund of EUR 5 million. Much has already been done, but all these things must be seen in conjunction with each other. This is typically a subject that cannot be solved with one or the other. We have to do things one way or another, and maybe even more. A number of colleagues have already started to mention concrete examples of how painful child labour can be. Of all the things that are wrong in the field of good employment, and good employership, which should be opposed, child labour is perhaps the most painful and painful to see. The note mentions a number of figures. 96% of consumers rightly say they find it unacceptable when products have a lower price because they are made by children. But only 30% of Dutch listed companies openly commit to the OECD guidelines. These are just the listed companies. This was demonstrated in a study by the Association of Investors for Sustainable Development. If you contrast that because of the fact that this still exists there are 168 million children in this world who work, it is starting to dawn. That is 168 million times the story of a child working in a textile factory, baking bricks or dealing with other things that children should not be dealing with. That's our assignment. We do not formulate that mission and the corresponding timetable here today, which the world formulated for itself and laid down in the so-called Sustainable Development Goals, which were established last year. Objective 8: it is actually objective 8.7; it has become a whole Christmas tree, but it is a very important thing that all forms of child labour should be eliminated by 2025. So it's our job to figure out how to do that. Colleagues rightly raised the question of whether this will work, whether it will add something and whether it will have implementation problems. I recognize this discussion. This is because we conducted it within the PvdA Group before this initiative legislative proposal came into being. Where the new colleague, Mr Geselschap, used a football metaphor earlier, I found the cycling metaphor from the explanatory memorandum to the law most clear in this respect. In a cycling race you have front runners who run off on their own. In business, there are happy ones too. Those companies must be named and praised: Tony's Chocolonely ensures that the production of chocolate takes place without child labour or anything else for slavery; H&M has taken very big steps, and IKEA, where the debate started about fifteen years ago, is now a pioneer on this point. Then the platoon will be led by Minister Ploumen. These companies have been included by the Minister in these improv agreements. It concerns a number of sectors in which a large number of companies are willing to take steps. But what about the companies that cannot or do not want to keep pace in the peloton? That's why you need a broom truck. Actually, Mr. Van Laar, with all due respect, is the driver of the broom truck. I ask the Minister if she recognizes herself in this metaphor, especially given the comfortable place she takes at the top of the peloton. Do we have to force those other companies to join us, or do they have to step out of the race? Has the right balance been chosen between what we ask of companies and the burdens and pace that weigh on them? These are the concerns raised by Mr Mulder of the CDA. I think that balance is well chosen. The 2020 deadline gives companies a number of years to prepare for it, but we shouldn't wait too long, because after that they only have a few years until the 2025 target comes into sight. How do we use the interim period to prepare companies for the entry into force of the law as quickly and effectively as possible? The right balance has also been chosen with the supervisor. It will only take action if complaints are made. I think this is a smart approach that keeps the burden on that supervisor limited and effectively deploys it, namely when individuals or civil society organisations themselves have already done a certain preliminary investigation. Is there not a risk that some companies will wait until a complaint is lodged? Isn't waiting behavior rewarded? It is also good for the balance sheet that a form-free variant has been chosen. Each company may write down its own way of fulfilling its legal obligation. In this case, no "one size fits all" fits, but isn't it convenient to provide a General Measure of Management handles on how companies could do that? Various toolkits are mentioned in the explanatory notes. Isn't it convenient to help companies a little bit in drawing up such a plan? In the end, consumers need to know how to make the best choice. Frankly, I have listened carefully to a number of other parties who say: you have to be as transparent about that as possible. I'd like to join them. If there is such a register, is it not useful to make it transparent, so that consumers can easily see which companies comply with these rules and which companies are actually trying to eradicate child labour? I started with the fact that it's and-and. So I cannot help taking this opportunity to ask the Minister about the latest state of affairs. How does it, in its own way, place such an emphasis in the countries themselves, in its work, on this accompanying policy, particularly with regard to the strengthening of labour inspections? It often fails to do so. Countries, governments may have intentions, but how does enforcement take place? One of the most beautiful ways in which the Netherlands implements its development policy is to set an example to our own services, our own Labour Inspectorate in this case, and to work together with countries as a colleague and promote good policy. I would like to hear the Minister's interpretation and how she thinks these matters can be complementary to each other. I'm closing up. Of course, there are other issues that need to be further worked out. I know a lot of things that come up here. I am confident that the petitioner and his staff will be able to provide good answers. At least I'll look at it with very positive glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u109	I am curious to see how Mr Servaes looks at this whole discussion about how far you should go in the chain. I would like to take the example I mentioned of the German supplier who has an intermediary in Thailand, who has dozens of suppliers himself. What is the view of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u110	I found that the D66 colleague very well summarized the concept of trickle-down effect. The whole problem is the chain approach. We want everyone in the chain, from top to bottom, to always have the next link in that chain. In practice: if you have five suppliers as a company, your main aim must be to ask those five suppliers what they are doing to tackle child labour in the link after them. You could compare it to a chain letter. I think that is the strength of the proposal. We're not gonna track down all cases from a police force. We ask companies to take their own responsibility and look one step further. If everyone keeps looking one step further, we'll eventually get to the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u111	I think that is a nice and clear answer. The point is, it's not as laid down in the law yet. I will discuss an amendment with my colleague from D66, Mrs van Veldhoven. I understand from the way in which Mr Servaes put it that he thinks positively, depending on wordings and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u112	I'm always thinking positively. That's okay. I've read it like that. If you, as a company with five suppliers, can show that all five suppliers have their business in order, that they all have already deposited their form, their plan with the supervisor, then your own application can be extremely short. Then you can refer to those five suppliers and their plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u113	In the debate on this law, it is about the confidence in the effect it will have versus the burden on the contrary, about the proportionality between the two. That is why I think it would be wise to evaluate that. Then you can see if, mostly, that proportionality remains. I wonder what the Labour Party is like about the evaluation clause. Of course, it was already in there, but if we come to the conclusion in that evaluation that it is totally disproportionate, then you should be able to repeal such a law. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u114	I am in favour of this. Perhaps I am even looking at it with more optimism than the question arises. I take it as a starting point that we have confidence in it, so it is not a gamble that this will work precisely because of the chain approach. Evaluating is always wise. If you don't like the outcome, you should take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u115	Enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u116	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I just want to confirm that you are, of course, submitting such an amendment only to a law that you hope will be adopted, because you are confident it will work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u117	Exactly. Well, that's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u118	You just want to be able to weigh its unforeseen effects against each other again and then have already foreseen that you can find a solution. I will therefore table the amendment to this law on the basis of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u119	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u120	From the reaction to Mr Dijkgraaf's interruption, I understand that Mr Servaes actually follows the line of D66 in the complexities of the chain: if that German customer has signed with me, then everything is fine, then it is okay. If that is the case, this is just bogus legislation, symbolism, which is no use to us at all. If you say that it goes much further and deeper in the chain and that you have to figure out all those steps to the end and have full final responsibility for that, is the criminalisation completely disproportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u121	No, absolutely not. I think it is good of the law that it uses the systematics that companies also use: we look further into the chain and we appeal to everyone for their responsibility in that chain. That way, this has the trickle-down effect we've been talking about before. I liked Mr Dijkgraaf's questions. Do you just do it blindly or do you lie there, if you have any indications that something is wrong or if something doesn't feel right at all....................................................................................................... In any case, I would also give a positive response to this in the first instance. You may expect a little more than just paper, but the conclusion that it is false regulation is, frankly, unbehaved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u122	In the example of that German customer, you are talking about the trickle-down effect, but I thought this was Dutch legislation, which the Dutch company must abide by. Precisely because of the lack of the level playing field, not only within Europe but also outside, you do not get that trickle-down effect. The German is not committed to that, even if he has another sub-supplier in Ukraine. So you're stuck with a good explanation and an investigation with the German supplier. So what did you actually achieve for what's going on with that kid at the Bangladesh factory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u123	In my opinion, the bill stipulates that a supplier who supplies something in the Netherlands is bound by Dutch law. That supplier is therefore included. The demand for the level playing field is of course always good, but the question is whether you accept the lowest level and let everyone go down there, or whether you make efforts to boost that level. And that's exactly what's happening here. I forgot for a moment by whom, but it was asked whether we could also try to raise the level in Europe further. Of course, I'd love that. I also like the fact that you are currently seeing initiatives in several EU countries. A bill is being discussed in France. In England, they've already done that. I would like to invite the VVD to do the same here, because it ultimately creates a level playing field for companies of good will. They are no longer penalised by companies that withdraw from the agreements and do not want to participate. No, it just helps to create a level playing field at a high level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u124	I believe that the Ruggie framework is asking us to give transparency throughout the whole chain and to go back to where child labour takes place. So I hope that this law does not just go back to the first supplier, but goes further. Apart from that, my question is about age. The petitioner wants it to be 13 years old, but the Labour Party also knows the ILO conventions. They give a clear directive: 15 years, where there could be an exception for light work and a limited number of hours. There must also be no damage to children's education. Does the PvdA Group now support our amendment which sets 15 years as a standard, with a possible exception? Or are we going to lower the standard to 13 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u125	I really want to have a minute to look at that. There are different conventions, in which different ages are mentioned. I'd say we should go for the maximum. So we should not exclude children under the age of 15 from this in advance. However, I would like to look very closely at the amendment and, of course, I would also like to hear the reaction of the author of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u126	We need to look at how we interpret that, because with a maximum age you could also reach 18 years. Anyway, Mr Servaes is looking at it. The average age proposed by the ILO Convention is 15 years. But let's be in touch about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-13.u127	Thank you for your input. We have arrived at the end of the first term of office. The examination of this initiative proposal will continue at a later date in consultation with the initiator.
