ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is a threat to our country's security. Anyone who wants to is admitted here as an asylum seeker and taken in, and the screening on the threat of terrorism is extremely bad. This point was also brought in by the PVV during the general consultation, but got a new load last Saturday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u3	I know that you want me to wait until Mr Fritsma is a little further on his speech, Mr President, but he started by saying that this cabinet is a danger to the security of the Netherlands. In a week in which a politician was shot dead in Britain, I should like to say quite frankly that Mr Fritsma's party is thinking carefully and that it weighs well the words she uses in the political debate when talking about other political ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u4	This debate is also about terrorist threats. This was also the subject of the general consultation we had before. The borders are wide open, terrorists are hitchhiking on the asylum influx towards Europe and towards the Netherlands, possible terrorists have not been screened and tens of thousands of foreigners without passports and without papers simply end up in the shelter. Then I can say and then the PVV can say that this cabinet is a danger to security? That's what the whole PVV's behind. I'll keep repeating that here. That is based on the facts that I have just reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u5	The case in England is being investigated, but this lady is well aware that she was defending, among other things, the rights of refugees. Jo Cox was shot. Is this also an act of terror in the eyes of the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u6	Yes, that is a terrible act; of course, no one is doing anything about it. But this debate is also about terrorist threats. That's what the AO we were feeding was about. Then, of course, the PVV may also draw a conclusion about the cabinet's approach in addressing the problem of asylum influx, the lack of screening of terrorists and the admission of tens of thousands of undocumented foreigners, who no one knows what they are doing here. This is a danger to safety. That is an actual point that the PVV Group can make naturally and continues to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u7	I would like to support Mr Sjoerdsma, particularly in view of what Mr Fritsma said, namely that this cabinet is a danger to society. We may differ on policy, but then Mr Fritsma must appoint the policy and not address people, because that can lead to very dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u8	I have said that this cabinet is a threat to our country's security. I used those words. I didn't bring in any people. I am also, of course, referring to policy, as I have just explained. The policy of open borders, of allowing all asylum seekers who wish to do so, of placing them in a shelter of anyone who wants to do so without having been screened and without the Cabinet knowing who these people are and what they are doing here is, of course, dangerous. That has already been shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u9	Mr Fritsma, I would like to ask you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u10	There may have been an IS terrorist in the shelter in Nijmegen. There have been attacks in which terrorists came to Europe via the asylum influx. So that link is just there. I don't see why it shouldn't be appointed. That's what the PVV keeps doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u11	Mr Fritsma, I was interrupting you just now because I wanted to ask you if you could give me a shorter and more concise answer. You really lost a lot of time to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u12	I would point out to Mr Fritsma that his first sentence was directly directed against the cabinet and not against the policy of the cabinet. If Mr Fritsma had said that he was concerned about the policy of the cabinet and he had explained that, that would have been fine. However, he directly addressed the cabinet as a danger to this society. I hope that Mr Fritsma will take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u13	I did that because the cabinet is responsible for the policy. Who else would you call on? Mr. Chairman. Asylum seekers are poorly screened. De Volkskrant reported last Saturday that thousands of asylum seekers were not screened at all when they came to the shelter here in the Netherlands. Potential terrorists among asylum seekers have been released throughout September. That is, of course, irresponsible. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State why such a high security risk has been deliberately taken. It is clear that, for reasons of security too, the Dutch borders must be closed for asylum seekers. The PVV continues to make that call. I will stick to the issue of security, because I would like to table the next motion in response to the failing approach of criminal asylum seekers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that any crime committed by an asylum seeker leads to the refusal of the application for residence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma and Mr De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2196]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u14	Mr. Chairman. During the general discussion a long time ago we talked about the children's pardon, which was intended to put an end to the long-term uncertainty faced by refugee children, who are often rooted in the Netherlands. The problem with the implementation of the children's pardon is that there are always major problems for certain groups of children who are just out of the boat, for example because of the criterion of national supervision. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is an indivisible government in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the distinction made in the Scheme between long-term supervision and municipal supervision is an artificial distinction;]] [[Whereas there are more than 30 children whose recourse to the transitional arrangements has been rejected on the basis of this artificial distinction;]] [[calls on the Government, throughout the Scheme, to change the State Supervision criterion into the State Supervision criterion;]] [[calls on the Government to re-assess the rejected children with the criterion of public oversight rather than state supervision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2197]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u15	This afternoon we had very unsatisfactory Question Time with Minister Ploumen, who repeatedly said that she was going to call Ankara, but in no way seemed to want to move towards an independent investigation into what is happening at the Turkish-Syrian border. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several human rights organisations have reported (deadly) shelling of Syrians trying to cross the border with Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to have independent investigations of these reports carried out immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2198]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u16	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions and two minutes' speaking time. That's why I'm getting carried away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Secretary-General of the United Nations warned of a civil war in Burundi and that over 250,000 people had to flee the country in the past year;]] [[Whereas the 2009 notice is likely to be no longer up-to-date and it is irresponsible to return people on the basis of a seven-year-old post;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a new report on Burundi and at least until that time to set up a departure Moratorium for Burundi,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the vast majority of applications for the Scheme for long-term residence have been rejected on the basis of the working criterion;]] [[Whereas in many cases there has been no active opposition and this is understood as insufficient cooperation;]] [[of the opinion that in the balancing or rooted children in the Netherlands only active opposition should be a reason for rejection as opposed to a requirement of active participation;]] [[invites the Government, throughout the Scheme, to replace the working criterion with a counter-work criterion and then, of its own motion, to re-assess the applications rejected on the basis of this criterion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of rejected applications for the Scheme have been rejected because no asylum procedure has been initiated but a regular procedure has been initiated;]] [[Whereas this criterion is intended to prevent people who have arrived illegally in the Netherlands and have never applied for legal residence from receiving a permit through the children's pardon;]] [[Whereas people who have applied for regular residence have never had the intention to stay illegally in the Netherlands and that children are now subject to a procedural error on the part of their parents;]] [[calls on the Government, throughout the Scheme, to replace the asylum procedure criterion by the requirement that a procedure be initiated, irrespective of whether this was a regular procedure or asylum procedure;]] [[In addition, the Government requests that the applications which have been rejected on the basis of this criterion be automatically re-assessed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2199]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2200]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2201]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u17	Mr. Chairman. Normally ladies go first, but in order not to disturb the entire order of the Chamber, I shall not do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u18	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u19	I, too, have three motions. Given the time, I'll read the motions directly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increased influx creates a complex logistics process that can be accompanied by different moments of removal and that this can cause additional disruption especially for children;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for mobile IND hearing and decision-making officers, in particular for asylum seekers with minor and school children, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many applicants are not eligible for the out-of-debt scheme because the co-operation criterion is often invoked against them and that the ACVZ has also found that it is not always clear what actions foreign nationals must take in order to participate in their obligation to leave;]] [[calls on the Government to specify and relax the working criterion so that foreigners who actually cooperate, but without their own action, for example by refusing the country of origin, can still benefit from the out-of-debt regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[Whereas this is particularly traumatic for minor children;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways in which families with minor children, for example, are accompanied by social workers, in cooperation with the police, in the event of expulsion, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2202]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2203]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u20	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fewer asylum seekers appear to be coming to the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the current need for emergency care was partly caused by the reduction of thousands of shelters in 2011 and 2012;]] [[Whereas the number of applicants for asylum coming to the Netherlands is heavily dependent on fluctuation due to international developments and should be prevented from re-emerging large gaps in reception places when more asylum seekers arrive in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to maintain a flexible shell of reception sites in the case of lower numbers of asylum seekers, which will enable rapid and adequate response in the future to changing numbers of asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 92% of applications under the definitive scheme have been rejected;]] [[Whereas this still leaves a large group of children rooted in the Netherlands who have not been solved, with all the consequences;]] [[Whereas it follows from the International Convention on the Rights of the Child that the best interests of the child are violated if rooted children are expelled;]] [[calls on the Government to revise the Scheme of Long-Term Children in such a way that all children rooted in the Netherlands who have been in the Netherlands for more than five years and have not left for an unknown purpose are included,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2205]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u21	The point is that children like Noor, Maryam, David and Daniel are in uncertainty every day. They're always afraid that today might be the day they're being evicted. In the meantime, there seems to be a majority in the House of Representatives saying that the criterion of participation is not being applied fairly. If that's what you think, then I don't think you can say: we'll take another look at it, we'll ask for some more information. You just have to have the guts to say we're adjusting the arrangement now. It's the least you can do for these kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u22	Mr. Chairman. "He who doesn't honor the little one is not equal to the big one" is such a beautiful saying. I had to think about it when I let go through the two topics I want to talk about today. I'll get to the big one first. During the general consultation at the end of May, I asked the Secretary of State if he had a plan B, a plan in case the power starts again from Turkey. He answered that he doesn't have a plan B. That's worrying. Visa liberalisation does not go as Erdogan wants, and so there are quite a few other incidents. We know how vulnerable we are, because we are unable to tackle the major causes of the flow of refugees. In addition, yesterday the newspaper said that Frontex expects a doubling of 150,000 to 300,000 refugees for this year. That is the current coming from North Africa to Italy. This current has already been mentioned by me during the AO. Does the Secretary of State maintain today that the government does not have a plan B if the number of asylum seekers increases again? If there is a plan B, will he send it to the Chamber? I come to the small, although it is probably experienced differently by the people involved. What am I talking about? The famed and desired reception of 28 single, underage foreigners in the Zeevingstraat in Purmerend. This is a shelter where the municipality, the organisations involved, the volunteers and the neighborhood are satisfied. You'd wish it would go in more places that way. But we need to get rid of this shelter. During the AO I asked: can't it be otherwise? I am often prepared to give a ruler who I am robbing with details the opportunity to come back to that in writing. The Secretary of State sent a letter on 17 June, richly later than promised. And that was a bit of a bullshit letter, I might add. They are in consultation, the Secretary of State wrote. Boy, I'd almost like to say. On 14 June, the mayor of Purmerend sent a letter to the Secretary of State, stating that solutions are being sought and that, as long as they are not available, the Zeevingstraat in Purmerend remains available. How difficult was it for the Secretary of State to simply send this information to the Chamber because they were asked to do so? Not only have I asked for that, but two other parties as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u23	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the temporary children's pardon scheme, more than 1,500 people received a residence permit in the Netherlands. We're proud of that. This temporary arrangement has been followed by a permanent arrangement. It is our job to ensure that this arrangement is implemented in a fair and just manner. One of the criteria on the basis of which children are rejected for the permanent scheme, namely the participation criterion, has been questioned. Since we don't want any doubt about that, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 90% of applications for the final scheme are rejected, about one third of them on the basis of the participation criterion;]] [[Whereas the purpose of the scheme is to provide clarity to children with a background to asylum who are already long-term residents of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas there is doubt as to how the co-operation criterion is to be applied;]] [[Whereas the out-of-debt criterion provides that families whose country of origin does not cooperate in return and thus frustrates the process should remain subject to any reasonable return;]] [[noting that it is currently unclear how many families and children who have been rejected under the Scheme have made use of the out-of-debt criterion;]] [[Whereas the above information on the grounds for rejection and the out-of-debt criterion is desirable in order to obtain a complete picture of the implementation practice;]] [[calls on the Government to provide information on the implementation, the overall picture of the grounds for rejection and the granting of the out-of-debt criterion in relation to the Long-term Children's Scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u24	I want this information sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. This is not about numbers, but really about the reasons why children and their family members were rejected on the basis of the permanent arrangement of the children's pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u25	I have a question for Mrs Kuik about this motion, because the motion simply contains questions to the cabinet. We usually put it in the debate, the Secretary of State answers and then we can do something with it. In fact, a month ago, Mrs Kuik asked the Secretary of State for what she had stated in her motion as operative part of the debate. The Secretary of State promised to find out. I therefore assume that the motion is superfluous and that we will receive a reply from the Secretary of State. So my question to Mrs Kuik is: why would a motion ask for this information? That's not an act in the direction of broadening the children's pardon, is it? That's just asking a question in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u26	I note with you that this information is not yet available and that the letter we have received is completely inadequate. So there is nothing left for me to do but table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u27	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u28	That is possible, and I understand this to some extent, but the question, which other parties have also put here today, is of course: in what way and with what extent would you like to extend or change the child's pardon so that it will work as it is intended? So let me put that question to the PvdA. You want more information, fine, but what is the position of your party? How are we going to expand this children's pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u29	I'm glad you get it. The scope of my question is that I would like to know at a business level how the criterion of participation is now being applied and how it is being operationalized, so that we can find something of it and so that it is being implemented in a fair and just way. There must be no doubt about that, and if there is, we must take him away. This is how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u30	I thought I understood it correctly, but now that I have the motion, it turns out that Mrs Kuik finds that a third, on the basis of the working criterion, is not covered by the definitive scheme for long-term children. I therefore believe that there is indeed a percentage in her own motion. Mrs Kuik gives the answers in her motion herself, but what else would she want to know on top of what she has already seen? In short, does it not want to know more than just the figures? Is the intention of this motion to extend the working criterion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u31	Mr Voordewind is actually asking a rhetorical question. Indeed, I do not want numbers, but clarity on what exactly lies behind the working criterion. I know that people are rejected because they have withheld their passports, because they have committed fraud or because they have not kept their appointments over and over again. That seems logical and fair to me, but that is only one aspect of the criterion of cooperation. I can also imagine that there are criteria that we do not consider fair and fair. There has been some doubt about that, and I would like to see that brought to my attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u32	A final question from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u33	If Mrs Keiken herself stated in her motion, in her first observation, that a third was rejected because of the strict application of the working criterion, I would honestly have expected her to ask the Secretary of State in the operative part to broaden that criterion. I would also like to ask whether she believes that this should also apply to the extra-indebtedness criterion, which she also refers to in her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u34	In order to find out exactly where the unreasonableness and injustice lie and to be able to implement the mechanism in a different way, I must first know how the criterion is applied. What would Mr Voordewind include? Would he, for example, include or not include withholding passports? It's too easy to say right now that we know it's a third, because that letter doesn't tell me anything. That letter was completely inadequate and I am very dissatisfied with it. That is why I felt obliged to table this motion, but I would have preferred it to have gone another way. I don't want numbers. I want clarity at case level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u35	Mr Voordewind, Mrs Voortman has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u36	I would also very much like that clarity at case level. Does Mrs Kuik mean by this motion that she would also like to have the anonymized minutes of both the rejected and the decisions granted, so that we can look at how all this has been applied at case level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u37	I would like to know what criteria have been applied in the granting or non-dismissing of the participation criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u38	I am glad to hear that the Labour Party too would very much like to have the anonymized minutes of the decisions, because then we can all find out exactly what is happening at business level. However, I would like to know what is happening in the meantime. There are children who are now worried about expulsion and who are now afraid that the police will be on their doorstep tomorrow. Does the Labour Party consider that there should be no expulsions until such information is available? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u39	I cannot ask that, because first I want to know whether the criterion of participation is right or wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u40	I get a bit dirty taste in my mouth anyway, because it's been singing around for a few weeks or months that the Labour Party is for a more generous children's pardon. Many children, including children who write about this to me and perhaps also to Mr Voordewind and Mrs Kuik, are asking if we can do something for them. What does Mrs Kikkie really want to achieve for these children if she herself repeats her own point in the House of Representatives, without having to arrange anything for those children? You have a majority!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u41	With that majority, we have already achieved a very beautiful and generous children's pardon. I now want a fair and fair implementation of the permanent arrangement and I therefore want to have a breakdown of how the co-operation criterion is applied. There are also people who say: you don't have to cooperate at all, you're welcome to dive into illegality, but I want you to get a permit. I disagree. I believe that the criterion of cooperation should be worked out in a fair and fair manner, and I therefore think that the letter sent by the Secretary of State is totally inadequate. We want that clarity as soon as possible, so that we can do something targeted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u42	I have just tabled a motion on this point. In this I ask the government not to make it a criterion of cooperation, but a criterion of counter-work, and then to exclude people. I cannot escape the impression that there is, after all, a very nasty and ugly thing to say in this debate about the back of children who are in a vulnerable position and who are being evicted, is in the process of electoral rhetoric. I would like to say this to Mrs Kuik: just be a little harder on the VVD! You have here in the Lower House with our support just a majority to settle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u43	I've seen Mrs. Gesthuizen's motion. I wonder how you operate the difference between a co-worker criterion and a counter-work criterion. It holds a criterion in itself. So it's going to be a bit of a "yes, but" or "no, unless" discussion. I don't think that's what we're looking for, just the two of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u44	If you do not know that, you have no idea what you are asking for in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u45	Mrs Gesthuizen, I did not give you the floor. Mr Voordewind has not received an answer to one of his questions, so he can ask it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u46	That's very kind of you, Mr. Chairman. I did indeed ask a second question and there was no answer. Mrs Kuik asks for information about grounds for rejection in the Scheme for long-term resident children. Is she also interested in the same grounds for rejection in relation to the criteria for out-of-debt? We have a similar discussion about this. Would she also ask the cabinet through this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u47	Mr Voordewind has not yet received my motion in advance, so he has not been able to read it properly. However, in the recitals and the operative part, there is also the out-of-debt criterion. I have asked a number of questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u48	Mr Azmani is on the list of speakers, but he is not speaking. Then we have come to the end of the Chamber's input. We're going to listen to the Secretary of State for the response and weighing of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u49	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the questions that have been asked. Mrs Keijzer asked about a plan B. In my view, we have now agreed on a package with Europe, within Europe, but also with Turkey, where there are already more safety valves within Plan A. If Turkey were no longer to cooperate, for which we now have no signals, a person would still not be able to move forward if he could make the crossing. Because that person is then in Greece and we agreed last year that there will be no more political change. So someone cannot go from Greece to Macedonia and then back to the EU and Schengen and eventually to the Netherlands. That whole package of agreements is not just a deal with Turkey. There are several measures to prevent a high influx in the Netherlands from repeating or even exceeding last year's influx.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u50	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State's body language. I think this is the answer to the questions about Plan B. Does this also apply to the current from North Africa which is now going to Italy and which Frontex says is going to double this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u51	For example, we have made it clear in the JHA Council conclusions that we do not support a policy of perpetuation. Of course, we do not want Italy to get into trouble, and that is why we want to make more agreements on readmission with countries on the other side of the Mediterranean, but that is slightly less flexible than with Turkey. Mr Koenders has taken steps at the Foreign Affairs Council to focus European logic on making agreements with those countries outside Europe and strengthening the coastguards there, so that rescue can take place as quickly as possible and people can be brought back to the nearest, non-European coast as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u52	Can the Secretary of State tell me exactly what he means by his remark: we are going to work on agreements with countries in North Africa? Does Libya fall under that category? Are people sent back to the Libyan mainland if they are found as refugees within or outside territorial waters? What am I supposed to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u53	In view of the current situation in Libya, this is not a viable map. In last autumn's cabinet position, I believe that it was September, it already states that we are in favour of Search and Rescue as close as possible to the coast of departure and therefore return to it. Apart from the question of whether a government is available to make agreements, a number of countries there are not stable enough to do so now. So you didn't set this up in a couple of weeks. However, we did not expect an agreement with Turkey to be reached within a year. We have succeeded, and that is why we are optimistic. Once it has come to this and you have stopped the terrible death in the attempts to cross, you can talk about how to provide security in a regulated way by means of an invitation to establish a larger number than in Europe today. Let me now turn to Mr Fritsma's question and comments. I think Mr Fritsma is throwing things together a little quickly in his rhetoric. The cabinet has acknowledged that it had to recover a leg when registering in the weeks that the influx was very high. This involves an influx of more than 4,000 per week. We scaled up as quickly as possible, because we were not satisfied with what it was like at the time. Afterwards we checked everyone and subjected to additional checks based on the profile. Instead, Mr Fritsma says very quickly: screening asylum seekers to see if there are people in there who need extra monitoring. He calls that here already the screening of terrorists, but that goes a few steps further. Mr Fritsma has also tabled a motion. With all due respect, we've tightened things up considerably over the past few years and months. We don't give asylum status to someone who broke the law. It may be that Mr Fritsma believes that there should be no limit and that this should be done in the case of any crime. The Cabinet does not share that view. However, Mr Fritsma should not link his motion to terrorism if the intention is to deny bicycle thieves access to protection. Of course we're watching the influx. Of course, it can also be used by people with terrorist motives. That's why we're screening. That's why we're looking out for it. If you couldn't, you wouldn't have to pay attention. But a much greater proportion of asylum seekers are victims of the same barbarians. This requires that we offer safety to people who are fleeing from them and remain vigilant, so that people cannot take advantage of that goodness by threatening us. That requires vigilance. You can't answer that with simple rhetoric. You can't just pretend that this motion is helping, because it doesn't help with heavy categories. We already have policies for that. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u54	As far as screening is concerned, of course, terrorists can hitchhike with the asylum influx. That's what happened. The Secretary of State has said for a long time that this is unlikely. Unfortunately, that's been lied to by the practice. Then the question remains as to why the cabinet has allowed thousands of asylum seekers to be sent into society unscreened. They can just walk free and sit in the shelter. If you don't know who they are and so you don't know if there might be terrorists, that's a huge security risk. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u55	Most terrorist plots are unlikely. That's why it's so hard to arm yourself against it and keep an eye on everything. If someone announces it, calls it in and says that in three weeks' time he will cross a certain border crossing and commit an attack, then the security work would be simple. It's hard. That's why you need to screen in large numbers. You have to do a lot of work that ultimately only leads to confirmation that nothing is going on. If something's unlikely, it doesn't mean you shouldn't pay attention. I want to get rid of that statue. The cabinet doesn't have anything "let it happen." We were dealing with a hugely fast influx. I know Mr Fritsma wants something else. That's what we've been talking about in this Chamber. But his party leader, Mr Wilders, also said that he would not build fences. At such a high influx you also have in the model of Mr Fritsma a time that you have to stand at the border, that people come in between and that you have to deal with it. You must also get things in order as soon as possible and, with retroactive effect, submit everyone who entered in the meantime to a profile test and a screening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u56	I have another follow-up question. The cabinet chose to let all those people in, didn't it? The cabinet could also have chosen not to let asylum seekers in. Now it has been deliberately chosen to release thousands of asylum seekers unscreened into our society. You don't know who they are or whether there are terrorists underneath or not. Of course, the choice should have been different. We should have stopped. We can't handle it, and that's why we should have set an asylum stop. I also have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u57	I haven't heard a question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u58	It has been found that 20 000 asylum seekers have arrived without documents, without a passport. How can the cabinet of these undocumented asylum seekers know who they are and what they are doing here? Again, major security risks are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u59	Mr Fritsma has now added the undocumentation, while the people who had evil motives often had a proper document. If that's a fake, you should check again. If an asylum seeker has had to flee, there is no demand that he has all his papers. Mr Fritsma knows that too, because it has been for years. That does mean we have extra work to check out. Mr Fritsma sells air castles. He says there's got to be an asylum stop. We also once exchanged with the PVV what that looks like in her model. Then you wouldn't take care of those cases anymore and you wouldn't give those people a place to live. But after questioning it turned out that the boundaries wouldn't really be hermetically closed, even at the PVV. The party leader said there would be no fences and no walls. Then there are people coming in and Mr Fritsma puts his hands in front of his eyes and he says: I don't see you, so you won't be there. Then you have a total risk, because then you don't know where people are. So we are working to get the screening in order as soon as possible. The last time we had it inspected, it was in order. That wasn't reassuring enough for us and that's why we're doing another check. Meanwhile, we are working to ensure in a decent way that we have inflow rates lower than those we saw last year in the distribution, in which we contribute to the safety of refugees outside the Netherlands. In any case, we are beginning to get a grip on it this year. Only when the year is up, I dare to say it, but so far you can see that at least we have more control over it than last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u60	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u61	No, Mr Fritsma. I'd like the Secretary of State to continue with the answer. He's only at the first motion and the reactions are very extensive. If we continue at this rate, we'll be in trouble with the next VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u62	I just heard the Secretary of State say he hopes he'll have it under control by the end of the year. He's talking about getting a picture of whoever comes in here. He's talking about identifying, reading phones and stuff like that. I hope, however, that he will not be talking about this, because in the AA I was promised that there will be a test of inspection in the summer and that we will then... For me that is actually much too late, but well, I do not want to go to the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u63	No, Mr. Chairman, I certainly wasn't talking about that. I was talking about the grip on the influx into Europe and I did not want to sell the skin in this respect until the year is up, just to make up the expression. I don't want to announce right now that we have complete control over it. It keeps working hard every day to get a grip on the influx and there's still a lot of work to do. I'm coming to the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. in piece No. 2197, in which there is an indivisible government. We don't really have one on this subject. We believe in the Netherlands that the children of people who do not have a legal right of residence should also be able to go to school. So we don't ask the schools to report it to us if they have someone in class who doesn't have a legal residence. If you really want an indivisible government, the schools should report this. The effect is not that we have people in the picture faster, but that children without legal residence are deprived of education. I think this is not the intended effect, but it is an unintentional side effect of the logical consequence of an indivisible government. Therefore, since we do not have them and choose not to make certain facilities dependent on the legality of the stay, I do not think that you can continue this line in the supervisory judgment. The authorities that go over it and which we have entrusted with it do not know that the people are there, while organs that are not allowed to tell the government know that. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr Sjoerdsma's motion for a resolution 2198 concerns reports of deadly shelling in Turkey. During Question Time, Mr Ploumen's cabinet indicated that it was important, like the Chamber, to clarify what happened and what did not. To this end, we use the channels mentioned by Mr Ploumen in Question Time. I do not see how the Netherlands can also conduct an independent investigation outside the aforementioned and promised channels on Turkish territory. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u64	For the sake of clarity, does the Secretary of State say that the cabinet does not want an independent investigation in any way? In Question Time, the Minister merely promised to contact Ankara.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u65	That has been promised on top of the regular channels. Through the Commission, which has the greatest responsibility in this respect, we are asking for clarification. The UNHCR is also doing this case by case, but we have discussed this in an earlier AO. I think the UNHCR is independent. She looks into the case, but then she doesn't report. So there is an investigation, but no report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u66	I happen to have just come from that border area and have also spoken with the UNHCR. In no way has UNHCR been asked to look at such incidents. The UNHCR does not report because it sees no task for itself and because it is not allowed to work in the border area. So I ask the Secretary of State to do the following. The European Commission is, of course, not independent. Ankara is not independent. Is the cabinet really not prepared to come up with a genuinely independent investigation into these incidents? Is that what the Secretary of State is actually saying about dissuading this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u67	I'd rather not let you put words in my mouth. I said what I said about it. The verdict on the motion remains: dissuade. We are on the road with the Commission and with the increased involvement of the UNHCR in Turkey. That is what we have in mind. I come to Mrs Gesthuizen's motion on item No. 2199. This motion is about Burundi. I promised to send a letter that the Chamber will receive with my knowledge this week. I can formally ask if Mrs Gesthuizen wishes to continue the motion, but the Chamber will receive the letter before the vote. The motion may have been overtaken by the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u68	What is your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u69	Yeah, what am I supposed to judge without giving anything away? Then why don't I just say "judge room"? Then we will see in the vote whether the letter led to arrest. I come to Mrs Gesthuizen's motion on item No. 2,200. It wants to change the working criterion into a counter-work criterion. I'm having trouble with that, because it's really moving the weight. It denies that parents in particular have their own responsibility. Failure to have a legal residence permit means a duty to leave. This will cross an essential part of the return policy. It focuses on the fact that a person who has been found to have no right of residence after having completed all the open legal remedies has a duty to leave, preferably with all kinds of facilitation voluntarily, but if necessary forced. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. I also advise against 2201, because I think it should really be a result of the asylum procedure. The children's pardon focuses on asylum. It is about what happens in those procedures that eventually leads to an effect that ultimately makes you say, even though a first application has been rejected, that the child's pardon applies. I don't see any ground to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u70	That's a rather formalistic answer. What exactly is the difference between the child who, with a regular application, but with a different kind of history, has been here for five years and has been rooted, and a child with an asylum background?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u71	In the latter case, parents have usually reported themselves on entry, but at any rate at any time for protection under international conventions. I do not believe that children with five years' residence should therefore always have the right of residence. We are therefore already differing in this respect. You shouldn't put that in too big. I think it makes sense to think that it is only conceivable at all if it comes from an application for protection, from an asylum application and not from another form, such as economic migration, where people will consciously choose to stay under the radar and not apply for asylum, to complete that five-year period and to achieve residence through the right of the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u72	I have, of course, dealt with that last point in the motion. The motion is not about people who have deliberately chosen illegality. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State agrees with the view of the previous Secretary of State, who said that it was not really his job to root the children? I may have misunderstood him during the general consultation. Isn't it about the rooting of those kids? Is it about other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u73	I have another and, in my opinion, a broader view on the importance of the child. I am looking not only at the children who are here now, but also at ways of preventing situations from reappearing as they are today in the future. How do you find a balance in a scheme that meets the toughest cases, in which the rooting of the child plays a role, but which does not have the unintended but inevitable side effect that against the best interests of the child in many people choose to exist in the margins of society, an illegal existence, to call upon it after a while? By definition, the scheme will be limited in composition and effects. I now come to the motion on part No. 2202 by Mr Voordewind. I agree with Mr Voordewind that moving movements should be reduced as much as possible, especially for children. I note, however, that last year they were mainly caused by the sudden and enormous increase in the number of asylum seekers in a short period of time, including the number of new and unorthodox facilities that we had to make. We are now in the process of better mapping the movement and looking for ways to better serve the interests of children. That's where I'm gonna find the answer. I share the problem analysis, but I don't see the mobile teams that the motion is asking for as a solution. That's why I don't recommend the motion. This may seem easier at micro level, but it will result in a huge loss of time with expensive decision-making capacity. You need to move less, but you have to wait much longer because the IND is then busy bridging distances instead of making decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u74	I have great sympathy for this motion. So I need a little more than just "I want to, but I can't." Would the Secretary of State be more able to justify that, if necessary in a letter? I think there's something for those mobile parades to say. This reduces the cost of vans that have to go everywhere, uncertainty and so on. I think there is still a little more to be said about the cost and benefit side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u75	I'd like to map those costs and benefits, but also a mobile team doesn't just show up anywhere. You're gonna have to find a facility for that. You need to rebuild all your reception locations so you can take hearing from them, or you need to work with mobile hearing aids, while we are increasingly demanding the conditions under which hearing takes place. All these things aren't exactly compatible. These are gonna be some road shows. I would like to put an indication of the costs on paper, but this is easier said than done. It doesn't mean that an IND employee can drive his tablet to an azc instead of going to the office, and do his job there on the edge of the bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u76	Like I said, this feels like a logical wish. Apparently, at least this MP needs some more information to convince him that this is not a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u77	We'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u78	If the Secretary of State sends a letter... The motion simply asks to see if this is an option for the children who have already moved two or three times. They have to go to another school, they have to make new friends and so on. I don't think anyone in this room wants that. The motion calls on the Secretary of State to consider how we can reduce these moves to, for example, a maximum of one, so that those children can stay at the same school. If the Secretary of State promises to investigate how he can limit the extra movement and write a letter about it, then I'll hold the motion. I'll see what that letter contains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u79	I like that offer, because we share the goal of limiting these relocations. We only disagree about the organisational consequences and the question of how to achieve the intended effect most quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u80	Then I'll hold the motion and wait for the letter to arrive. Can the Secretary of State indicate when that letter could be here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u81	I'm gonna need to talk to you about that. I can easily indicate what we are doing, but if we also want a better assessment of the means proposed by Mr Voordewind in the motion, I need a little more time to do so. I'm not gonna save that in a few weeks before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u82	To make it even simpler: the Secretary of State could also take over the motion. Then it doesn't have to be stopped or withdrawn. I assume we'll get a letter in which the Secretary of State takes stock of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u83	That seems to me to be a very good addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u84	Then "research" becomes "inventor" but with that translation it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u85	Mr Voordewind, if you agree to that interpretation, the motion will be taken over. Do you object to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u86	"Inventories" and "examinations" seem to me to be about the same. I understand the Secretary of State is taking over the motion. I'll wait for the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u87	I'll see if there's any objection to that with the other members. If that is not the case, we will agree and the Secretary of State will take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u88	In the motion in part No. 2203 by Mr Voordewind, the government is asked to specify and relax the working criterion so that foreigners who actually cooperate can still be eligible for the out-of-debt scheme. The essence is that the stranger may reasonably be expected to do anything to return. This may vary between individuals and also between countries of origin. So we can't make a ticking list out of that. Of course, there is always the judicial test to assess whether our interpretation is considered fair within the law. The feasibility shown in the motion in part No. 2203 is supposed to be, I can't rhyme with reality. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u89	The reality the Secretary of State is talking about shows that at the moment only a few are covered by the criteria of out-of-debt. Last week I spoke again about the number of people who have been here for 12 years and who have been trying for three or four years to get the embassy's cooperation, but who simply cannot get out of here. The ACVZ also states that it is important to consider whether the current criteria for out-of-debt are real in the situations in which people are excluded. That's the intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u90	I also know the stories, of course. There are also many people who cooperate until the embassy, but once inside no longer cooperate. Then the embassy won't cooperate. The matter is tricky. I think that an individual assessment, with a judge's check on it, is the best thing to do. I do not have the impression that we are setting the bar too high. I understand that few people meet it, because many people who really do work and make efforts to return can actually return via voluntary return. People don't just leave forced. The motion in part No. 2204 is about how we deal with the people when it comes to eviction or detention prior to eviction. The motion breathes a little bit that we are not doing it carefully at the moment and that there is misplaced toughness. I'm gonna distance myself from that. I've seen the footage, too. That's not how we go in, but unfortunately it's necessary. If, in our rule of law, all those concerned, having accepted the outcome of the process, were to board the bus, we would not do so today. Unfortunately, it is necessary to do so. There's a lot of conversations ahead of that. Unfortunately, sometimes it happens that it can't be different from this way. No one does that for fun, but the fact that it happens means it's really necessary. I do not want to give the impression, by doing anything other than dissuading her, that there is still room for another approach which will reduce the number of times an eviction takes place in this way. The involvement of children creates an additional threshold to proceed with that action. If that action is necessary, it is, of course, painful, especially for those involved, but also for the others who see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u91	We once had information about how it works and about the escalation ladder. One of the things that comes back frequently, it's the morning lights from the bed. Can the Secretary of State address that aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u92	No. At what time of day people are picked up depends on the case. It could be morning; it depends on when the flight is. If you put in the action, of course you want everyone to be present to be transferred. However, there is no specific policy for it to always take place in the morning. It can happen at more times of the day. Very often that happens without discord and sometimes with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u93	So the statement that in all cases people are taken off their beds in the morning is not supported by the Secretary of State? I, too, have got the impression that it is standard in the morning and that this is part of the protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u94	I don't know every protocol, but I don't know that consciously. I'll check this out. I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 2205, tabled by Mrs Voortman. It can change quickly, because the motion is already considering how we deal with overcapacity rather than deficits. I agree with Mrs Voortman that you always need some buffer. We had that last year when the inflow rose; only that exceeded our buffer. Give me time to come up with smart solutions, in good consultation with the administrative partners, and to find a balance between flexibility, knowing when to expand and where, and not necessarily having to maintain and continue to finance capacity that is not needed. I would like to shape it within the financial framework. At the moment, I think it is too early to decide whether to maintain a flexible shell of shelters and to bear their financial consequences. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u95	The Secretary of State is asking for some time to come up with smart solutions. I'm always willing to give the Secretary of State more time for that. Can he give us a time indication? Then I'd be willing to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u96	That's not in a few weeks. We are currently discussing the acquisition of new locations. You'll be operationally aware that nothing can be done to limit the influx. So far, we've been able to make some progress. We are talking to the local authorities in the coming time to make sure that the good that has been loosened remains involved. I just need to get on the road with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u97	In my view, the Secretary of State often consults with different authorities on this matter. We have a debate on Thursday and right after the recess. The Secretary of State can rest assured that I will make enquiries. It would be nice if he could tell us the results of those conversations. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u98	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (19637, No. 2205). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u99	Mr Voordewind has another question about the previous motion, about the time limit for the Secretary of State to check whether the protocol states that it takes place in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u100	You've put it all together. It was a response to someone else's question, but it was my motion. I would like to be clear in order to be able to draw up the voting opinions for my fellow Members. Maybe we can get that clarity before the votes on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u101	I am thinking out loud: that is mainly because of the content of the answer. If it's not in the protocol, it's a short answer and it can be done very quickly. If it is, then of course I would also like to discuss how it is. I can tell from the Chamber that she's more than just curious. I will try to answer it as soon as possible, but it is possible that I will not be able to follow up on it if the answer is not as the Chamber hopes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u102	Then it is up to Mr Voordewind to do what he does with his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u103	I have difficulty with the recital in the motion in part No. 2206 that the best interests of the child would now be violated. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has a direct effect in the Netherlands. If our actions were in breach of that treaty at this time, the judge would be whistling us back. That will not happen, however. We may differ on the desirability and content of the scheme, but I cannot support the fact that we are violating the Convention by means of current practice. We would then have heard it from the Council of State and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u104	Research by our current Children's Ombudsman shows that there is no situation in which a child who stays here for more than five years would benefit from being evicted. That is what the recital refers to. I would therefore like to know on the basis of which investigations the Secretary of State comes to different conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u105	This depends more on what the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires. The Netherlands is a beautiful country. It is not so crazy to think that for a lot of children in the world the Netherlands is better than the country they come from. Then it is not yet the case that the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires that these children be allowed to be here, even if they have been here for some time. It is about the legal analysis of what the treaty requires. If the treaty requires more than we are doing now or if what we are doing is contrary to that treaty, the judge would have found it. Of course, you can also have all kinds of discussions that feed you scientifically and political discussions about what kind of policy you want. However, I cannot find a link to the idea that we are violating the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u106	Finally, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u107	We disagree on that. In fact, judges point out that the legislation as it stands does not provide sufficient tools to properly comply with Article 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. There will be another discussion about this, because an initiative law is being drawn up on this point. I note that the Secretary of State ignores Mrs Kalverboer's investigation and does not take into account that if you have been here for so long, by definition it will also affect your development if you are expelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u108	The fact that we have such an arrangement at all means that we take that into account. However, it is not something that transcends everything else and is only decisive. That's why I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 2207 by Mrs. Chicken. I have answered some of the basic questions on this subject, but I can see that Mrs Kuik wants to go down in depth. I have two real problems with this. The first concerns the consideration that there is doubt as to how the measurement criterion is to be applied. I understand that there's a doubt with Mrs. Chicken. I can see that. As I said before, it certainly does not exist legally. The arrangement as it is made, works like this. However, we have needed a number of court cases to crystallize some cases. If the Council of State gave rise to this, we have adapted our actions accordingly. However, it is all tested and legally sustainable. So I advise against this motion. I see, of course, what happens to it in the mood. If she's hired, we'll see how far we can get to the level of detail. We have a pathway in which we as legislators make policies and laws and in which people have legal remedies with a judge who reviews at an individual case level. I think we're starting to get in the middle of this. Anyway, it is up to the Chamber at the vote to determine to what extent it wants to go on that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-31.u109	Voting time on the motions is next Tuesday.
