ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	The cabinet is represented by the Secretary of State during this debate. The message of obstruction from the Minister has, I understand, been received by everyone. I welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It can't be a coincidence, can it? On the International Teacher's Day, the Chamber will debate the bill which includes the teacher register. I'm just gonna take a look at the Griffin's people. This seems to me to be the pinnacle of plans. My compliments. An answer to the question about the quality of education depends primarily on the quality of the teacher. That is an insight that I think we share in general. The question now is whether the present legislative proposal, in which the teacher register is legally anchored, strengthens the teacher's position to a sufficient extent. A law governing the teacher register cannot be separated from the total problem of matters concerning the position of the teacher. The legally anchored teacher register follows the voluntary teacher register. This started in 2012. I understand from the reports of the Education Co-operation that some 62,000 teachers have since registered in that voluntary register. That's quite a lot, but also a quarter of the 250,000 teachers. The present legislative proposal contains three elements: the definition of the profession of teacher, the recognition of his professional space in the school, and the requirement for the teacher to register and keep track of the competence. Let me make one thing clear at the beginning of my contribution: GroenLinks is in favour of a teacher register which is managed for and by its own professional group. This means that we are in favour of this legislative proposal as a matter of principle. This is without prejudice to the fact that we have the necessary concerns. They'll be discussed now. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there are sufficient safeguards and rights for teachers as well. Not for every teacher it is enrollment, or it must register a party. For my group, it is important that the legislative proposal, which aims to raise teacher competence and teacher competence maintenance, has a good balance between rights and obligations. We are not at all reassured about this. I come first to the description of the profession of teacher. I have very few comments to make on this. It is important that it is described in this law. More difficult is the recognition of the professional space, or actually the not yet sufficiently described. The Secretary of State wants the teacher to have sufficient authority to do his job properly. But what does this bill actually change in practice? What professional space will be added now? What improvements are teachers going to make in practice and in their daily work, of a professional status and a professional standard that is not quite there yet? Yes, the position of the teacher vis-à-vis the school board is strengthened by this law. That is right, and my group believes that this is right. But is that the biggest bottleneck, or is there perhaps also a bottleneck with the legislator, which, to this day, lays down fairly detailed rules in education so that school boards are also, in a sense, passing through these rather tight legislation? As a result, the free professional space actually gets too little chance. What does this mean for the progress and objectives of Education2032? My group does not think that teachers' control over school policy is sufficient; it should be strengthened. At least we get that impression from the legislative proposal. How is it sufficiently secured? Does the statute have the right of assent to participation? GroenLinks is, as I said, in favour of a teacher register of, for and by the profession. In addition to the ordinary teacher register, a portal has now been proposed. We have doubts about that. It will depend to a large extent on the answer given by the Secretary of State to what we think on this point. The register includes teachers who have the legal competence requirements; they are entitled to call themselves a register teacher. The profession shall establish criteria to keep the profession up-to-date in order to maintain its competence and re-register it. Fine. If you don't do that without good reason, you'll get a note. We welcome the fact that at least there are views, objections and appeals. These are important safeguards. There is also an opening to disciplinary law. My group believes that this is right. A fully-fledged register therefore asks; look at the legal profession and the medical sector. But let's face it, we haven't got that far yet. Here, care is of the utmost importance. Could the Secretary of State agree to that? Can he guarantee us that a right of disciplinary action cannot be brought over the feet? Having a professional standard available and working with it seems to us to be one of the first basic conditions for achieving such a system at all. That's gonna take a few more years. The boards of government in education indicate that they have not been properly involved in the drafting of this law. Can the Secretary of State answer that? In any case, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, they have no primary role in the system of registration. That was already in my remark that the register is from and for the profession. It is important, in fact, to separate them. In this sense, we are not so impressed by the criticism of this bill from the boards. We do not agree with these employers' organisations that they should play a central role in the re-registration criteria. That is precisely the essence of the register; that is what the profession should do. However, employers' organizations rightly have questions about the provision of training and its possible financial consequences. However, it is logical that there should be sufficient training budget for teachers to achieve this. Of course, it is the responsibility of the school authorities to ensure that that budget is there. But that does, of course, raise the question of whether there is sufficient budget. Is that sufficiently anchored in the funding system of education? We have doubts about that. That is not a criticism of the school boards; it can be a criticism of ourselves as legislators. What will the Secretary of State also do about reducing workload, so that teachers also have time to work on their skills? Because if they have to do it all between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m., it doesn't go well. Do the teachers then get the time of school leaders and directors, and have we facilitated that enough in the rules and again in the budgets for that? For GroenLinks, this is one of the key elements of the law. Without a good vision and a good facilitation of this whole process, which is to a large extent our task, the registry will eventually fail. So we are also talking here about rules of government and money. There will also be a register portal, which is managed by the government. Does that have any added value? Teachers who are still in training or who are subject to statutory exceptions are included. The Council of State is also clearly critical of this. Does this have any added value and does it actually help the whole process? We are not yet convinced of that. We also see the criticism expressed, among other things, by Mr Rog and, let me be honest, we have doubts about the amendment tabled by Mr Rog on this point. There will have to be a very clear justification for the added value of the register portal, otherwise we think it could be counterproductive. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes the clarification given by the Education Co-operation on teacher control of the register. Those teachers will all have the same voice in a meeting of participants. This is important, because teachers should also feel the owner of the register. That does not alter the fact that there is some doubt in my mind: to what extent are such an approach and such a system stable? That could be a question which the Secretary of State discusses with the Education Cooperation. If there are 250 of the 250,000 teachers at a participants' meeting, that is one permille, and if it is always another group of 250 teachers, I fear for the continuity of the vision building on the register. Can the Secretary of State answer that? To what extent is he talking about this with the Education Co-operation and perhaps he has further answers from the Education Co-operation that I do not know about? Then last but not least the lack of teachers. No system of registration can be successful if we work with a continuous and growing deficit. That's not gonna work. This means that we will eventually have a register, but that register could, so to speak, even be a liability to have enough teachers for the classroom. I think that in the end the shirt will be closer than the skirt and we will say: take care of teachers for the class, even if they are not competent. Then we're back to square one. This could eventually lead to the failure of the entire system. My group is very concerned about the shortage of teachers. In primary education, it is already going wrong, as we have managed to cut the number of starting pabo-students by half in recent years, from 7,000 to 3,500. This has been done with good intentions for quality, but with ill thought-out measures. Meanwhile, pabo-trainings are busy to fire a large part of their teachers' corps, because they no longer have a job for that. Imagine that within a few years we will find out that the ship is going to turn around here, we will not only have a huge shortage of teachers in the po that cannot be solved à la minute, but we will not be able to scale up the quality of the training quickly enough. This is not going well, Mr Secretary of State. I would very much like attention to be paid to this. I will therefore table a motion today, in which I ask the Chamber for a ruling that the government should come up with a very thorough plan of action on the shortage of teachers. That plan will have to be broad enough. It must, of course, be about the status and reputation of the profession, it must also be about pay and career opportunities, and it must also be about reducing labour pressure and creating the facilities to make this profession attractive again and make people happy to do it. That's the point. So we are also talking about money. I know that we are all, of course, in the run-up to the forthcoming elections, but I want to make it clear that if we want a teacher's register to succeed, we will have to eliminate the shortage of teachers. If we're gonna lift the teacher shortage, we're gonna have to pull the wallet with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is very interesting what Mr Grashoff says, and I can very much endorse it. However, I do have a question. For example, the Council of State says that there should be no teacher register before the teacher shortage is resolved. How's GroenLinks in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	That goes too far for me, because that means that if you're not careful, you're gonna end up in some kind of chicken-and-egg discussion. The teacher register can make a very clear positive contribution to the status and possibilities of the profession and thus make the profession more attractive. So it can also be part of the solution of the problem rather than just a final piece. I see that the proposal means that the register will not be fully mandatory until 2022. That means we have a few years left. Those years we will need very much to solve the shortage of teachers, but I think that the proposal is actually fairly balanced on that point. We've got a few years. Let us use it with each other to meet these conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Of course, you can expect the teacher register to help solve the teacher shortage. That is perhaps precisely why it is now so prominent on our agenda rather than all the measures that would really help, some of which Mr Grashoff has mentioned. Is Mr Grashoff not afraid that the introduction of the shortage of teachers... Excuse me; the shortage of teachers has already been introduced. Is Mr Grashoff not afraid that the introduction of the teacher register will distract us from the things we really need to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	I go a long way with Mr Van Meenen's concern. It is not for nothing that I put this issue, with some force and emphasis, to the end of my speech. It should not be the case that the introduction of the teacher register will distract us from important issues, with the number one shortage of teachers. If that were the case, I would give Mr Van Meenen a great deal of support. However, I think that the opposite is also very unwise, namely now saying that we should just leave the register. I would say now: make sure the register gets there and take the time to enter it, but that now means all hands on deck. For me, therefore, the final assessment of success will depend to a large extent on the willingness of the Chamber and the Secretary of State to engage full speed in the fight against the shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. How important a teacher is, I heard again yesterday. The House of Representatives was overpowered by 30 men, 30 masters. They have offered me and a number of colleagues a kind of petition. They had asked all their students why it is so important to have a master. According to his students, Master Wim from Hoofddorp is a superman, a supermaster, because "he can explain well, tells quite nice stories and he is funny." According to his students, the master of primary school Kunstrijk, from Arnhem, doesn't mind explaining something ten times. And Master Roy is the best. A student writes: "I am proud of my master." It's great to have those masters here. Once in a while, they overpower a school with nothing but misses. Then the girls will be sent home for a day and then the masters will take over. What do these masters need? Yesterday I noticed that they are not really very busy with such a teacher register. They say, "Give us rest, space and autonomy; we are going to draw it, and we are going to make it beautiful; we have the most beautiful profession in the world; give us autonomy." We have also received large posters with all kinds of comments from students.The most beautiful compliments a teacher can get. Today, Teacher's Day, the teacher is central. These are masters and teachers. Let us put it this way, because they are needed in a good mix, so that a school is a good reflection of society, in which our children will have to live later. It is important for the teachers as a professional group to be given control. In the view of the Christian Union, the teacher register is at most a means and certainly not an end. That is the essence of my contribution today. How can we strengthen this profession in order to improve the education of children? Is the timetable outlined realistic? Is the initiative indeed in the hands of the educational field and the teachers? I am trying to get an answer to these questions today so that I can make a good judgement on what this bill is about. First of all, I have a question about the outcome of the legislative proposal. In primary education, the problem of unauthorized teachers does not arise, although this is a reason for this legislative proposal. In secondary education there is only limited talk of completely unauthorized teachers. However, unauthorized teaching is mentioned as a reason for the legislative proposal. What exactly is this about? Perhaps the reason is more status for the teacher, for example, but I do not expect a register to do so now. That's why I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly what the purpose is. When did this register pass? Can we get this clear today? Last week, the Education Council came up with the advice to give teachers more time for mutual cooperation and feedback. School boards must give room for this and the government must remain at an appropriate distance. That's a wise advice. It is also a question of sharing and being called into question, according to the Education Council, their own and shared views, beliefs, norms and values that lie behind good teaching. If school authorities need to give more room for the development of teachers and teachers to learn more, are these conditions in order? Mr Grashoff has already spoken about this. Schools sometimes have the greatest difficulty in having teachers standing in front of the classroom for a week and not letting the classes get too big. Teachers have to spend a lot of time in their training for further training. I note that these conditions are not in order at the moment. The time and space for development are insufficient. So are we doing it in the right order? Should we not have the conditions in order before making the teacher register compulsory? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Christian Union believes that the quality of education is determined by strong educational teams. Strong educational teams are diverse, masters and teachers, and strong educational teams are characterized by good leadership, by the school leader and by the teacher, and also by the teacher's self-leadership. If an educational team is 100% competent, this does not necessarily mean that there is a strong educational team. Good education is mainly determined by a strong identity of the school, a shared vision of the pedagogical-eductic approach, involvement of parents and of the environment of the school, good employership, and opportunities and space for teachers to train. About internal feedback and leadership, Wouter Siebers, the Teacher of the Year said: what is extremely important is trust in your own expertise. He said: teachers are sometimes just a followable people and I say: do it in your own way. I like to see this leadership in education wider. A few months ago, the Secretary of State called on the teachers to stop unnecessary administrative acts and to sell no against the inspection. He said: If such a teacher has a good story that it doesn't make any contribution to good education, then he has a good one for me when it comes to support. I liked that statement. How will this bill strengthen the position of teachers in this respect? Doesn't the teacher register miss out too much on the role of the strong educational teams? The employer is responsible for a strong team and in the Law on the Occupations in Education is literally in the explanatory statement: Schools are considered perfectly capable of maintaining the ability of the staff themselves. For my part, the teacher register is now cycling through it a little bit. What is the link between education and staff policy in schools in this national teacher register? In fact, I think that if we were to do it very neatly, the teacher register should be the culmination of a process that we all want to go to, namely the development of these professional education teams. In the future, even a penalty will follow if a teacher does not register. The Council of State states that the government thus passes through the school boards responsible for the competence of the staff. I still need a good answer to the question of how we get out of that gap. School boards are also not formally involved in determining the re-registration requirements and validation criteria. Why isn't that legally secured? For me, too, there is an important question as to why we should adopt a bottom-up legislative initiative and make it compulsory from above. The initiative for the voluntary teacher register has come from the professional group and, according to the Secretary of State and the Minister, this bill should provide a solid basis for this initiative. Is that really necessary if the teacher register is a means and therefore not a purpose? The Christian Union wants there to be a teacher register that is carried by the field. Should we not release the test of the Dijsselbloem Committee, in line with my adopted motion in the context of Education2032? It is yet another educational innovation and Dijsselbloem says that this means convincingly demonstrating that public intervention is necessary and well-founded, that good research has been done and that there is sufficient support. I am not yet convinced that this is the case, so I would like a response. A register is static in some sense, but the world is changing faster and the social context is becoming more complex. Aren't we going to have a static register in a very dynamic reality? What is coming towards us is a huge challenge: the shortage of teachers has already been mentioned by Mr Grashoff and there will be a strong emphasis on qualified teachers. But I wonder if the teacher register will not stand in the way of the side-influx of practitioners. We do not want to refuse the general access of unauthorized teachers: I think we need side-intromers and he-intromers enormously, for example technical professionals, master-partner relationships in the MBO. Drive those people in instead of asking them to put themselves in a register first. We should not do that in the mbo where we need professionals so badly to keep this country running. A register portal will be created for new teachers who are not yet competent. To be honest, I have to think a little bit about the Catholic foreborn: you don't know if you're going to heaven or in hell. The registry front portal... I don't know. Isn't that going to be something: I'm just not part of it, or I still have to wait and see if I'm part of it? I can't do much with that yet, so I'd really like to hear more about that today. I would also like to say to the CDA colleague that this is not in my text. I come to the professional standard that is also part of the bill but has not yet been filled in. The professional profile was drawn up by the teachers themselves ten years ago, but I conclude from the written round that the professional standard does not actually exist yet and that it is not yet clear what purpose it has. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on this? How does he see this process? Where does this go, what timeline applies and will the teachers themselves be at? Finally, I say that we have received signals from teachers that they are concerned about privacy: the disclosure of their personal data in the teacher register. They're gonna be listed with name and school in the register that's public over the Internet. If you want to promote competence and continuing training, I wonder whether that register should be made public. What degree of openness does the Secretary of State envisage? Is it not enough to keep up with the register, including the incentives for further training, and simply to say that you are registered, what your registration number is, and that it stops with regard to public access? I'm shutting down the way I started. "Master Wim: He is the best in the class and he is the funniest master in the world. He gives good lessons, such as spelling, language and math and not to mention nature. Hopefully you'll be our master for a long time. Greetings, Bram."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today is the teacher's day, which you will not have escaped. Colleagues have already spoken about this. Everyone who went to school knows from their own experience that the teacher can make a difference. Not only the "n=1" experience of everyone, but also long-term research among many students has shown that without good teachers you do not get good education. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is really the starting point of the law we are discussing today. The essence of education is that it prepares our children for the world they will end up in. That world is constantly changing, and that requires from teachers real craftsmanship and the drive to constantly evolve. The teacher must also continue to learn. Unfortunately, this is too often not the case. The teacher is not always the professional we want to see. Professionals, such as lawyers and doctors, are characterised by a strong profession. That's a club you should not only be a member of, but you also want to be a member of and work with each other on the quality of your profession and on the expertise of those who practice that profession. Before joining the profession, generic requirements have to be met and agreements have been made on how to maintain registration through further training and further training. Professionals in financial services will even have to retest periodically to prove that they are still mastering the profession. This not only makes these professionals better in their own professional activities, they can therefore also rely on more trust in society and on social standing. That's how it can be for teachers, but it's not like that yet. The profession of teacher does not have such a strong profession in which teachers stimulate and help each other to be as good as possible. A teacher obtains his authority with the diploma of teacher training and can then teach up to his pension without being structured at any time. As far as the VVD is concerned, that's just not possible. We want teachers to become a strong professional group, to continue to develop and to take responsibility for this professional activity as well as freedom. After all, they are working on the future of our children. We trust them with our most precious possessions. This creates expectations, but also responsibilities. Of course, not nothing has happened in recent years, but so far the professionalisation of teachers has always chosen to let that change come from the bottom up. In our view, however, this has not been enough. On the one hand, the current register of teachers is only voluntary and there are still groups of teachers who do not want to participate and who do not even want to answer to anyone, not to each other, and certainly not to an employer. On the other hand, there are school administrators who feel that the development of the staff is a task of the management to which the teachers themselves have nothing to say. They give far too little substance to the agreements on professionalisation that they themselves have made in the polder. That's the other extreme. It's not going to do us any good. After many years of discussion and non-binding initiatives, we are now going to do something to help this necessary development. Today we are talking about the creation of a public-law teacher register which will serve as a basis for the further professionalisation of the profession of teachers. The legislative proposal can therefore count on the support of the VVD. The VVD considers that a strong professional group is needed, apart from unions and school administrators, who are the employers in this area who can take care of the substantive professionalisation of teachers and enforce professionalisation of both teachers and employers. In our view, the teacher register lays the foundation for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	In recent years, it has been tried to achieve this from the bottom up in the eyes of the VVD that the teachers are going to bring about. It hasn't worked yet. That didn't work at all, you might say. That's why the government's gonna make it mandatory. Can I summarize Mrs Straus' speech so far? If that is the case, I would ask her whether it does justice to the development of the other professions. In these professions, the government never said it had to; they finally came to that conviction themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	This discussion has been taking place since 1993. In the meantime, I would have liked the teachers' profession to have really taken up this responsibility in such a way that it would actually be a living whole. However, we are more than 25 years ahead, and I still have to say that this is not the case. The great thing about this bill is that, although we are setting the framework and making it clear that we are really going to do this, there is a lot of room within the profession to give it its own content. I like that mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	How do you suppose this has been going on for 25 years? Do you have an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	The only thing I can imagine is that one way or another one has not seen sufficient commonality to actually work on it in a structured way. The profession as such has therefore not developed sufficiently over the past 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm chewing on this a little bit, so let's build on this for a while. They've been dragging and dragging for 25 years, and I can't do it. That is a plea against imposing the obligation to register, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	It is not about entering the register; it is about creating a culture of professionalisation in education. The register is only a vehicle for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	But that makes it possible not to do anything with that entire registry. And about this professionalisation culture: education in the Netherlands has been in the top five worldwide all these years; or was it even the top three? What exactly are we talking about? Are we not doing our own hobbies in this way, what we think education should do? Education does not see the point of this, it goes its own way and it delivers excellent performance. In the meantime, we have those who walk away from it very well and we can deal with them very adequately, so that the quality goes up across the whole width. In other words, what is the need for such radical measures? I'm trying to get convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	This conclusion by Mr Bishop, that education in the Netherlands is very good, I only share part of it. Education is indeed good, but it can do much better. This spring we had the OECD review. We have had a truly independent institution look at how the Dutch education system works and what can be improved. Especially at this point, the quality of the teachers, there was still a whole world winning. We believe that the register can contribute to this. The teacher register must become something of, before and by the teachers. The responsibility for its implementation lies with the Education Co-operative, the organisation currently representing the profession. However, the Council of State says, and rightly so, that the profession still needs to grow. In particular, the many teachers who are not members of one of the current organisations of the Education Co-operation should also feel the ownership of the register. Partly following a motion on this subject submitted by the VVD a number of years ago, the highest body of the teacher register will be a meeting of participants in which "one man, one vote" will apply. So neither the unions nor the management of the school is going to make demands; that is really up to the profession itself. How is the Secretary of State going to assess whether the unbound teachers are actually going to feel like they own the register? How is he going to ensure that they are given the firm role that belongs to them in the further development of the profession? What time course does he intend to take? In the long term, would it not be a good idea to also seek governance and finance the educational cooperative which is independent of unions, employers and government? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. As mentioned above, according to the VVD, we are today laying down the framework within which education develops. Despite the fact that the completion of the register is the responsibility of the profession itself, I would like to ask a few questions about this. Does the State Secretary share the view that there is still uncertainty about the further implementation of the register and the development of the profession? The Secretary of State states that the "route map', as he calls it, will be shared with the Chamber. What intermediate targets does the Secretary of State see in this roadmap? In what way will the Chamber be informed and involved? In fact, I would like to assess that the further implementation of this proposal is also sufficiently balanced, because there must be balance. As has been said, the quality of education stands or falls with the quality of the teacher. However, this does not mean that the context in which the teacher acts, the school, should be completely excluded. For example, the doctor works within the context of the hospital and needs to be aware of the policy pursued by the hospital. The Education Council recently indicated in its opinion on the professional space, Mr Grashoff also mentioned that team development is particularly important for the quality of education. The VVD would therefore like to see training programmes that teachers meet in a team context also count for the re-registration. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The legislative proposal reflects this balance between the members of the profession, the teachers, and the context in which they operate, the school, in a number of ways. For example, support for the re-registration criteria must be sought from employers. However, we are unclear as to what this means. What is the legal significance of support for this? How is it ensured that sufficient support has been sought in establishing the re-registration criteria? How do the re-registration criteria remain proportionate? I can imagine that, in assessing what is proportional, there is a difference between a teacher and the school. How do we deal with that? To what extent, for example, is it a starting point that the professionalisation hours agreed in the collective agreement are sufficient to meet the re-registration criteria? As far as the VVD is concerned, the re-registration criteria are not in addition to the professionalisation agreements made under collective agreements, but fall within them. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Another element in which the balance between teacher and school is sought is the professional status. This is a document in which teachers and school together agree on quality development. This seems to us to be a good instrument in itself, because it is an internal qualitative translation of the school plan, which will play an important role in monitoring. I think that Mr Bishop also thinks that is an interesting idea. However, how does this professional statute in the bill relate to the professionalisation plan that is currently to be approved by the mr at each school? Are they different, the same or complementary? That is not entirely clear to us. Does that professional status, on behalf of the school, indeed indicate the framework for the further training of teachers? The VVD considers it important to coordinate the individual developers of the teacher and the developers that the school as a whole wants to pursue. Is the professional status indeed the instrument with which you are going to ensure this? I have a few more questions that are of a more qualitative nature. What are the consequences of missing the re-registration? How does the inspection involve the results of the re-registration in the assessment of the institution? For example, can a teacher who does not have his re-registration in order ultimately compromise the quality assessment of the school? I still have a few questions about who is or is not eligible for registration. There are also people with educational competence who, whether temporarily or not, are not active in education. Some of them are here in the hall. How can they meet the re-registration requirement? How soon can someone who is qualified but hasn't kept his re-registration be in front of the class again? After all, it would be a shame to lose them for education. Finally, I have a question about the binding agreement. I see that in practice there are misunderstandings about this, so it would be good if we could clear up this point here. The primary education collective agreement has agreed that there will be a binding agreement, whereby teachers will get a contract for one hour a week to cover peak moments. They must, of course, be competent, because otherwise it cannot be done. How does this relate to the current minimum requirement that someone has to work at least 0.2 fte in education in order to register? This has to be well arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Straus herself asked a question about the re-registration. If the register is available, a teacher who does not meet the training requirements may lose his right to stand in front of the classroom. That could be a big problem for the school. After all, he loses a teacher. There may not be a replacement available immediately. How does the VVD solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	First of all, I think you should look very carefully at why someone hasn't been able to re-register. That could be disease, for example. That's why you're gonna have to put something of coulance into the system. That will therefore also have to be further developed. However, if a person has deliberately failed to keep track of his re-registration, if someone has deliberately not participated in further training activities, it is also possible that employers and employees agree together that this may ultimately have consequences for the appointment of the teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	That is exactly what the Council of State is objecting to. In fact, he calls this unworkable and not proportional. What if he is an excellent teacher who, for reasons beyond his control, has not complied with this training? Does he have to lose his authority to make that school have a problem, which is a class without a teacher?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	The question is, of course, what is an excellent teacher? If the profession itself agrees that a teacher must meet a number of conditions in order to meet those re-registration criteria, then the profession states what is an excellent teacher, and not me from the chair in the Lower House. If the profession lays down certain requirements that a teacher deliberately does not meet, the consequence is that the profession says that the teacher is no longer competent. It is a different situation if, for example, there has been a disease which has prevented someone from doing further training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	So you take the risk that the result may be that a class is without a teacher, that a school says to that teacher: we can no longer put you in the classroom, because you do not comply with the agreements made by the profession? That means, dear class, that there is no teacher for you, because we also have no substitute in sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	That could be the ultimate consequence. However, it seems very strange to me as a school that only knows about one day. If it is right, schools talk to their teachers every year and know whether someone is doing the right things according to the profession or whether they are not cooperating. So it can never come as a surprise for a school when someone doesn't have their re-registration in order. I think that the profession ultimately determines the conditions under which someone meets or does not meet those re-registration criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	You were finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yeah, I'm in the middle of a lockdown. Although we have many questions about the practical implementation of the teacher register, we are convinced that this teacher register is a step in the right direction. In fact, this register becomes the foundation under the professionalisation of the professional teacher. Education stands or falls with the quality of the teacher and every parent in the Netherlands wants the best teacher for his or her children. With the teacher register, we ensure that the profession of teachers is not only protected, but above all that they also represent their own quality. This is a quality that should be proud not only of us here in The Hague but above all of the teachers themselves. It is also a quality that will be increasingly recognized and appreciated throughout the country, with both our children and the teachers themselves as winners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. Our education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. It is therefore of the utmost importance that teachers are well trained, that they have time for learning development and for intervision and feedback, and that they continue to school, in the field of professional content, in the field of pedagogy and didactics. This bill seeks to respond to some of these elements. However, the impact also raises many questions. The most important questions are: what does the teacher have to this law, in what way is his position strengthened and to what extent will pupils find that the quality of education will ultimately improve by this law? That last question may be even more important than the first two questions. Although the competence of teachers is a necessity and should therefore be a matter of continuing concern of the government, we must note that the education inspection is not sufficiently effective in this regard. Some school boards attract unqualified or underqualified teachers, often in flexicurities and temporary contracts, without simultaneously starting training to be able to operate as quickly as possible at the applicable level of competence. For example, the caravan of unauthorized people travels through educational land. This bill organises a responsibility for the individual teacher to obtain his or her competence and to maintain his or her competence. But what responsibility do the school authorities and the government themselves take? Does the government also take a step in complying with the requirement of correctness? Why are school management not obliged, if they hire unauthorized or sub-competent persons, to start training or retraining of the unauthorized or sub-competent persons immediately so that the level of competence in force can be met? Can the Secretary of State indicate how many years of unauthorized or sub-competent staff may continue to teach in the various sectors of primary education, secondary education and secondary vocational education after the introduction of this Act? I hope that this law will provide an answer and that it will be less. If that is not the case, we will have to give that answer. The Council of State also puts the finger on the sore spot. He states that the law on this point is even disproportionate. On the one hand, unauthorized teaching remains possible, but on the other hand, non-maintenance of competence is penalised. Can the Secretary of State comment on this inner contradiction? Can he explain again why he believes that this approach is effective at a time when teachers will be forced into the labour market? There is an exceptional situation. The employers' organisations are against the law and the trade unions are very enthusiastic. You involuntarily wonder what's going on here. I would like to illustrate it with an example. In my view, the Secretary of State's plan is to reduce the number of extra children in the next three years by 33%, a horrible plan, but we read on social media that the AOb states that this law will soon make the agreements made by the Secretary of State with the PO Council no longer apply and that the teachers' teams will then be able to ignore them all. Is that true? Is it true that in that sense this law strengthens the professional space of teachers? Or is it going to be the case that not the profession will have more autonomy and control, but that the minister will have more control over the content of education? On the proposal of the Education Co-operative, the Minister will be able to determine the re-registration criteria and the rules of validation. On what criteria is that going to happen later? Does this not restrict the freedom of establishment of education? The CDA, of course, likes to see continuing training activities related to the training objectives of the individual teacher on the one hand, and of the teacher team, the teacher's college or whatever you want to call it. In addition, there are educational goals that relate to the educational vision of the school. As far as I am concerned, it is not only uncomfortable, but also undesirable to make the recognition of continuing training courses at concept schools, such as jenaplan, montessori, dalton or free school, dependent on the approval of the participants' meeting of the Education Cooperation, or of the Minister. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he looks at this? Can he answer the question of how the re-registration offer will develop? At the moment, even on social media again, I am very critical of teachers who believe that there is not enough professional offer, while for example attending a licked performance of a foreign chat maker gives just three recording hours. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? As far as the CDA is concerned, the register front portal is an unpleasant part of this law. Where the cabinet always relies on the broad support for the teacher register among educational organisations, such as the AOb, CNV Education, the professional associations and Better Education Netherlands, it should be noted that the Education Co-operation does not actively support this portal. At least that was evident from the conversation we had with the cooperative. On request, the supporting educational organisations explicitly distance themselves from it all. Why does the Cabinet attach to this unauthorized register? Isn't it a strange figure that, if the government wants to improve the status of the professional teacher, in addition to a true teacher's register, there is also a register for unauthorized persons? Wouldn't the position of the registry teacher be much more distinctive if this portal didn't exist? Moreover, it is the task of the Education Inspectorate to monitor whether the teacher not yet registered is legally in the classroom. You can do that without an unauthorized record, can't you? When a teacher starts in education, or when he goes to work at another school, he will be checked to see if he meets the skills requirements. A statement on behaviour must also be presented at that time. Unfortunately, we have to note that in education too, incidents sometimes occur with teachers who endanger the safety of pupils. Is it not wise, when the teacher register comes, to link the re-registration requirements that once every four years a new statement on behaviour is presented? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I would now like to present a number of situations to the Secretary of State. What do we do with elementary school leaders and deputy directors? These functions are extremely common in small schools. Do they have to register twice? If they give priority to the school leader's register, which is, after all, their first function, can they still teach? How do we deal with that? Teachers in training do not have an exemption from teaching, but what about teachers in training who have a learning contract? Do they, however, retain the exemption from jurisdiction? The same applies to those who have a one-hour binding contract for replacement. Are they going to be considered unauthorized in the inspection count? At present a minimum appointment of 0.2 fte is considered as a re-registration requirement. Is it gonna last? Are ibs excluded from teaching duties? Is the Secretary of State aware of the willingness of the social partners to establish "non-reregistration" as grounds for dismissal? Will this also be part of the inflow test of the Participation Fund? Can he estimate the amount of educational money that will soon be involved in paying transition fees and over-statutory benefits? That is a matter of concern, because we want as much money as possible for education to go to education. Education and ICT is not always a happy combination. At the moment, the Education Co-operative manages the teacher register, but with whom will the teacher have a legal relationship? Is it true that all provisionally registered teachers will have to give separate permission when the professionalisation data is transferred to another ICT system? I'd like to get a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. It can hardly have escaped anyone, especially after this debate, that today is Teacher's Day. So it's a good time to talk about that teacher here in the Chamber. For the critical listeners: by teacher I mean both men and women. Thank God they're both still here. Without a teacher, no education. When we talk about education in the Chamber, it is often about quality, about customization, about skills that prepare you for the future, and about making difficult social discussions possible in classrooms. All these things are in the hands of the teacher. Without a good teacher, not a good education. Teachers are therefore more than worth our support and investment. Today we are talking specifically about the teacher register. That is not a new issue, because it has been on the agenda more often in recent years. It should guarantee the teacher's position, strengthen the profession and ensure teacher's further training and further training. Now there's the long-awaited bill. D66 is very critical about that. I will honestly admit that I have long adjusted and weighed whether a teacher register could actually be a good tool for strengthening teachers individually and as a profession. I think we can do this. I think a teacher's register can contribute to this. We should at least give it a chance. Then I see an instrument of a strong profession as a result of the desire of that profession. A profession that itself deals with, for example, the design of teacher training courses. A professional group which operates independently of the government, also financially. Then the teacher register should not be a Hague instrument. Not a teacher's register because we want it here, because the Secretary of State wants it or because the Education Cooperation wants it, but a teacher's register because the teachers themselves want it. When I read the bill and hear and see the reactions of teachers, I do not feel that this register is of, for and by teachers. Take an enthusiastic teacher who would like to work with it and would like to think about his professional space. It reads in this bill that he or she can make arrangements with his or her school board. That goes through the next trial. I quote the explanatory statement: "If the employer and the teachers consider that the effect complies with the provisions of Article 4.1.a.1, (1) and (2), the provision in Article 4.1a.1 (3) of this legislative proposal does not require those institutions to adapt the current effects of the professional status. There are already agreements as provided for in this Article. If one of the parties considers that the effect applicable to their institution does not comply with the provisions of Article 4.1.a.1 (1) and (2), the employer should consult the teachers in order to develop the professional status agreed in the sector which complies with the said Article members." Well, then, in my opinion, that enthusiastic teacher has dropped out. Or I'm looking at the description of the teacher's profession, which we're going to lay down in this law. This law defines the teacher's responsibility for the subject-matter, subject-matter and teaching process, such as: the content of the teaching material, the way in which the teaching material is offered, the pedagogical and teaching approach to be used, etc. That could be much simpler. I quote Van Dale. It says that a teacher is someone who teaches. Remember, Mr. Beertema? It was as simple as that. Why wasn't this definition chosen, but for a number of open doors in a row? Teachers just want to teach. They do not want hours of discussion about professional standards and statutes. We wanted to reduce the administrative burden, not increase it. What is the added value of describing the teacher's profession? Doesn't the professional status just lead to more paper? Why are we making it so complicated? What is the advantage for the teacher to register in such a register? What motivation is there for the teacher other than that it is mandatory? In all my years in education I have never missed a description of the teacher's profession or a description of my professional space. I also never had a petition from a teacher in my mailbox in which he wrote: please give me a professional standard on how to deal with parents and students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	Of course, I fully agree with that definition in Van Dale. Mr Van Meenen and I are still from the time when we were indeed professional teachers with a professional space. But Mr Van Meenen had already sat on a driver's seat while I was still standing in front of the classroom. Then I wasn't allowed to teach anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	I wasn't allowed to teach anymore. I was supposed to be a teacher with a story. They had missed the connection to time according to all kinds of smooth-shaved managers who had never taught but knew how to get very clever 70 students in a study landscape. That's when I missed that professional status. I missed all those things that are now in that teacher's register, where the teacher becomes the professional again, the class expert. He determines the pedagogical-eductic way in which teaching is to be carried out. That's why we need that register. That's the most important thing. So I do not understand why Mr Van Meenen, with his heart for education, is now doing so incredibly critical again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would say that we must tackle drivers such as those Mr Beertema has apparently dealt with. This is different than apparently strengthening the position by describing the profession of teacher in such a way that everyone in the Netherlands will recognize it. The teacher is simply responsible for providing education. That is so unbelievable an open door. Where people stand in the way of providing that education, we must ensure that those people are dealt with. I am not saying that at the end of this debate I will not draw the conclusion that we should, but for the time being I am in this as I am now putting it. What we're doing right now is creating a lot of wool. We pour a lot of nice and good words about teachers, while I don't think there will be a teacher in the Netherlands: oh fortunately, now there is the professional status and now I stand very firmly with that driver. I do not think that this will apply to a teacher in a position such as that in which Mr Bertema was at the time. I do not believe that there will be a teacher who will think so, and I thought that Mr Beertema was not so naive to believe that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	I'm certainly not naive. However, I do not see all that wool that Mr Van Meenen signals. It is not lean-and-mean what is presented here, but it is a very thorough work and it results in a great deal of control for the teacher. I have to say that those administrators, managers and educators who want education to be provided in a certain way still exist. The OECD report that just came out shows that Dutch education is characterised by a huge chaos and noise. I called it crap myself, because that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Beertema, you will have the floor. An interruption is short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	I understand. But if you'll just respond to that... You must admit that a professional statute and a teacher's register protects all those teachers and teachers who want it to be different today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	In the four years I have been allowed to be his colleague, I have come to know Mr Beertema as someone who can infallibly describe the actual reality. I can see that, too. I think we need to take a lot of other measures to ensure that these kinds of excesses do not occur. What I am very afraid of is that we think that the introduction of a piece of paper will suddenly make that reality very different. I do not believe in that; I am not convinced of that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr Van Meenen speaks of excesses, but they are not. The whole Dutch education is characterized by a mess: it's noisy, everyone runs mixed up. I said on Twitter: every teacher must fight order for the first twenty minutes of a class. That's the situation. That is not an excess, which goes very far from Groningen to Maastricht.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	It may take a while before the students in that class have learned of the publication of the teacher register and the professional status, and of the fact that it will all have to be very different in the classroom from now on. There are other things that need to be done. I have already spoken with you, I believe, about a new stringency: the government must be much more supportive of the teachers. Drivers or executives who don't, we have to deal with it. The rulers have the means to do so. That's not gonna happen. I am not going to have a whole discussion with Mr Beertema about pedagogy and whether it can be fun in a classroom. We shouldn't go into that as a room. However, I am very afraid that a very sensible discussion such as Mr Beertema raises here will be lost under the guise of 'we now have the professional status and the teacher register, we are strong now'. I wish the teachers in the class every success with that piece of paper in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	Why does there have to be so much nonsense in this bill? With the risk that we now capture so well in definitions, professional statutes and standards what the teacher's space is, that eventually there is no room left. That we put so much time in re-registration criteria, call cycles, etc. that there is no longer time for further training. Isn't the teacher's autonomy getting less when we start recording everything? D66 considers it highly relevant that teachers should train to be aware of the latest vocational knowledge and to strengthen themselves in the educational field. Or they can learn how to use ICT even better in the classroom. But they can also watch in another class at another school. Peer review, a topic that we talk about very often here. Young teachers who have experienced teachers as mentors. All incredibly useful. D66 is very much in favour of paying much more attention to this. In collective agreements, time has already been reserved to train and develop as a teacher, namely 80 hours. On top of that are the professionalization activities, commissioned by the employer himself. Is it true that on top of that there will be another 40 hours for training activities aimed at re-registration? What are the teachers going to do less? It's not like teachers are thinking at the moment: I'm a little less busy, what am I going to do, let me go to school. I wish! Where do the teachers get those hours? What can they do less? I do not need to remind the Secretary of State that D66, together with the Labour Party, has already made a proposal to reduce, in particular, the duty of teaching hours. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about that. Has the Secretary of State calculated whether sufficient funding is available in schools for continuing training? D66 has another concern when it comes to continuing training. A letter submitted in the Education Journal of the General Education Association describes this concern nicely. That letter is in the section Your opinion and the heading reads: Teacher Register. I read it to him, and Juko de Vries from Lunteren says: "When I read the publications relating to the introduction of the teacher register, I feel that there is one group that knows how to use it, namely the training institutes, the coaching agencies and the providers of day programmes. That's how I got a flyer enclosed by Dyade at my educational magazine, the magazine of the OAb. It was an invitation to the professionalisation event Teachers make the difference! at the Beatrix Theatre in Utrecht. In a big well-known Dutch show that day a programme is presented to Dutch educators, with the latest gimmicks in ICT and new media. Under the daily presidency of, yes, Erben Wennemars and under the inspiring leadership of former sports teacher Peter Heerschop, we will be taken to new vistas on the professionalisation day. This professionalisation round is delivered to us for €478 and is the full annual budget for personal professionalisation. You get a lot of inspiration for it and six points for your register. This has been converted €79.90 per registry point. From this point of view, the introduction of the teacher register proves to be a very lucrative earning model." So far. How do we prevent re-registration from becoming a party of expensive bullshit congresses? How do we ensure that educational provision becomes meaningful and useful? How does team learning play a role in this? I refer to the recent advice of the Education Council on professional space and, for example, peer review, looking at another teacher in the classroom or exchanging knowledge with the MBO, the HBO or the university. Can you make any points with that? How do we prevent this from leading to a mad bureaucracy? As I said before, I think that a teacher register can play a role in strengthening the profession and encouraging continuing training, but it is not a sacred grail, not a silver bullet. A register does not improve the quality of education or the supply of training. The box isn't getting any more interesting because your name is on a list. More is really needed for this: time and space for the teacher, the development of a good organisation of the profession itself, the provision of a useful range of training, consultation and capacity-building in teacher training, also on the design of teacher training, and a real plan of attack to deal with the lack of competence, but also the lack of teachers. That would be a real support to teachers or, as the Council of State writes in its opinion on this bill, such a register can only function as a conclusion to a more comprehensive process aimed at improving quality. The section of the Council of State lacks attention in the explanatory memorandum to the framework conditions in order to initiate the desired changes, such as the development of a self-conscious profession, the availability of qualitative and quantitative adequate continuing training and the availability of sufficient time and resources. I couldn't say it better myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	Do you still want to interrupt on this point, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	Much of what Mr Van Meenen says is taken from my heart. I can follow all that. That is a good and critical attitude, but somewhere it seems that Mr Van Meenen is getting a little stuck. He says that in order to establish a good teacher register, a number of conditions must be met. Is it not wise, in view of the objectives which Mr Van Meenen and I, I think, share wholeheartedly on the quality of education, perhaps that will be shared much wider in the Chamber, to put a clamp on it and ensure that it is done, rather than saying now: let us not do that register now? Is this not the ultimate escape route for this Secretary of State or from next year's next Secretary of State not to address these issues, whereas that register is forcing us to address them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	I believe that the teacher's register could be that escape route, away from the problems that really need to be addressed and in which Mr Grashoff has also been very silent in his speech. For me, it is a very serious question whether we should not make every effort to meet the preconditions for a proper register first and therefore to work towards reducing the teacher's shortage, the lack of competence and all of this up and running for the teacher. Why is the introduction, even in this legislative proposal, actually being postponed? That's actually a license of inability. I don't know any laws that won't work until 2026. That's terrible, isn't it? For me, that is all the more proof that this is the escape route, away from some very difficult discussions that we have to continue to have with each other about time and space for the teacher, the lack of teachers and so on. I think that we should seriously consider solving this properly before we force teachers to do so, because that is what we are going to do in order to take place in a register.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	However, I find that reasoning complicated. We have just discussed this in a reverse debate on the subject. The fact that you are pointed out in this way to the framework conditions that are necessary to properly fill in the register puts us at the forefront of the facts about a number of things that we have to do, including investing in a number of aspects of education. I always have the feeling that Mr Van Meenen is threatening to leave an opportunity here to put these matters firmly and firmly on the agenda. It cannot, of course, be the case in the end than a register will enter into force in 2022 if this kind of thing is not settled in the run-up to it, because then the country will turn the ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	I have spent the last four years... I wanted to say that I have given my life, but let me put it another way: I have spent a lot of time and made proposals to achieve things in this sphere of framework conditions, for example on the point of time and space for the teacher, investing in the teacher, investing more in teacher training and the autumn agreement, adding extra money for those kinds of goals. We will do that again in our election programme. So I'm working very hard in the front. I'm not gonna sit around and wait until one day there's a law on the teacher register to see the need for this kind of thing. No, I have been aware of this need for a long time, and I believe that Mr Grashoff has done the same. My point is that we are now saying that, as the VVD puts it, it has gone on long enough and that we are now simply going to make this mandatory. Then it can go both ways. There may be more conviction that you have to work on all these preconditions, but I am not at all convinced of that. I'd rather keep it sharp. It's fine if parties want a teacher's register. In the end, I want to go there, but I think it is very important that we are firmly convinced first that all the conditions will be met, not just in ten years' time. That's my concern. Now the ambition to work on these things is actually moved to 2026: then it has to be okay, because then comes the first serious re-registration. I think teachers, but above all children in the classroom, need to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr Grashoff still has, but I have the feeling that this is going to be a bit of a repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	It is precisely with Mr Van Meenen's last remark that I think that this proposal compels us to start now with a number of things rather than postpone them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u46	Luckily, we still live in a country where you can find that kind of thing. That's nice, isn't it? This is also the day of democracy; it is every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr Van Meenen continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u48	Another focus of the Council of State is the shortage of teachers; I could say that there is already a shortage of teachers in some subjects. As a result, schools are forced to take emergency measures such as putting on-, under- or otherwise competent teachers in the classroom. That's undesirable, but the other option is that no one's standing in front of the classroom. How should we see this development in the light of the teacher register? Does this mean that the teacher register is turning into a paper reality? Or are we going to maintain it strictly? And classes without a teacher? Or does the Secretary of State really have a plan to tackle the shortage of teachers in the short term? What does the Secretary of State have in mind? Then there's the question of jurisdiction. If there is to be a teacher register, it is very important that we decide very well who is competent. I have previously put forward proposals in the Chamber for certain specific groups which are suddenly in danger of becoming unauthorized. These are subjects, particularly in vocational education, for which there is no training at all. That will have to be looked at very generously. All those who do their best every day must never be the victims of the introduction of a teacher register. At the time of the discussion of Education2032, I tabled a motion, which was adopted by the Chamber, calling on the government to transform the Education Co-operation, the engine behind the teacher's register, into a broad organisation that is really of, for and by the teacher. This call remains relevant, including for the teacher register. And then I really mean more than just a contestant meeting in the light of the teacher register. It is extremely important that we in the Netherlands really get a professional group that is not only addressed by, for example, the government, but can also make itself felt in the debates we are having here. Can the Secretary of State say what progress has been made on the implementation of the motion on the transformation of the Education Co-operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. The law regulates a number of matters and the intention of the law is good. There is a description of the profession teacher, the professional space is recorded and there is the teacher register. The underlying idea is good: raising the quality and strengthening the position of the teacher. That's a good ambition. The question is, however, whether the register is the right way to do this. It seems that this bill is still incomplete. I would like to mention a number of reservations. Firstly, whether there is support for the register. The organisations that are affiliated to the Education Cooperation are in favour; the teachers are divided, look at the social media. That's not strong if this has to be a register of, for and by the teachers. What conclusion does the Secretary of State draw from this? Is not support necessary for such a radical change? Isn't that what we agreed to after the Dijsselbloem Commission? Wouldn't it be a good idea for the Secretary of State to examine the basis of support? I have tabled a motion to this effect. I like to get a reaction. The Council of State is critical: all the conditions are lacking. The government doesn't really go into that. We know that from previous legislative proposals such as the loan system. Whether the law is right or not, he has to go through the Chamber! I think it is important that we take a closer look at this criticism from the Council of State. Firstly, the Council states that the law is premature. You must first meet a number of important conditions: address the shortage of teachers, limit the use of unauthorized teachers, ensure that teacher training meets higher requirements, ensure an adequate supply of further training, and make sufficient resources and time available to teachers to meet all such training. Secondly, the Board mentions the penalty on the insufficient in-service training, the loss of competence, unworkable and disproportionate. Thirdly, the register is not effective and proportionate because the proposal does not change the use of unauthorized teachers, but it does impose sanctions on competent teachers. At the core, therefore, there is not a professional register but only a register in which teachers have to keep track of their continuing training. If they do not do enough, they will lose their authority. This is quite acidic if the teacher does not meet the requirement of continuing training beyond his fault. Then he'll have to appeal, but that's quite a job. I would like to comment on this. I wonder if the register is going to put an end to the many unauthorized teachers, which is a major problem in education. It would be nice if it were, but the question is whether this is really going to happen. Firstly, it is strange that unauthorized teachers should still be entered in the register, but in the portal. Why was this chosen? I thought the register was meant to distinguish qualified teachers. In fact, I note that nothing at all changes to the current practice of unauthorized teachers. If a school board wants to appoint a teacher who is not yet in the register, that can happen within the legal rules, just as is the case now. What does the register add? I would like an answer to this question. In the MBO, jurisdiction is entirely a problem because of the unclear demands that are made there. In fact, any teacher with a competence can teach in any course in the MBO. Is it right that this should remain unchanged with the register? Unauthorized teaching is very undesirable. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State has the ambition to get this out of the world in 2017, so next year. What consequences does he have if this doesn't work? I know, there's gonna be elections. But perhaps the Secretary of State would like to say something about that. In what way is the register addressing the shortage of teachers? Steven Geurts, lecturer and blogger, writes that the percentage of unauthorized teachers does not show which teachers are incompetent or which schools do not have their affairs in order. It shows how big the teacher shortage is, but we're not gonna solve that deficit with a register. The question I am asking about this is: is it? I come to compulsory training. I think this one goes far. What if a teacher offers a demonstrable high quality but he does not comply with the obligation of further training? Could he lose his authority? Does his diploma become de facto invalid? Does that mean he's gonna be in the front porch? That leads to diploma inflation. The Council of State expresses this perfectly, namely that it is incompatible with a professional register that a qualified teacher, because of his failure to meet the training requirements, may no longer carry out teaching tasks but that an unauthorized teacher who is not yet subject to those requirements may do so. This leads to the paradox that the competent authority retains control over the use of an unauthorized teacher but does not retain that control over the use of a qualified teacher. Why don't you go into that? I'll ask the Secretary of State. In the explanatory memorandum there are two reasons for this legislative proposal, namely that not all teachers meet the requirements of competence and that maintaining the competence is too non-binding. Why don't the inspection check this out better? Better vocational training by sector in collective agreements. The government writes that teachers lack the incentive to pursue targeted training. I doubt that. Look at the great success of the Teachers' Fair. You don't have to force teachers to retrain. The cause is elsewhere. I'm gonna go to training. How does the government prevent the proliferation of continuing training activities, of questionable courses and conferences? Professor Karin den Heijer writes that the accredited offer is to cry. I would like to comment on this. How do you prevent commercial companies from taking huge advantage of this scheme without the benefit of education? Unauthorized persons do not enter the register, nor do teachers who have not done professionalisation in four years before 160 clock hours. Does this also apply to the part-time teacher? Does that teacher have to make the same amount of training hours as someone who works full-time? Are you sure you can do that? Isn't that going to be very tight, or even impossible for someone who works part-time? What do we do with the professional who teaches on a rocket one day a week? Does he have to fill all this out and join in? The bill includes recognition of the professional space in the school. That remains cryptic, especially if we put this next to the practice. In the annual report of the inspection we see that 93% of teachers consider working on their own professionalisation to be very important. Only 1% of teachers are allowed to choose which continuing training they are in. In all sectors, 62% of training is provided in their own time. Is the register going to take care of these problems? For reluctant employers, the register is not a stick behind the door. Here employers fail to comply with the collective agreement, not the letter and not the spirit. Why would the register take care of that? I'd like to hear an explanation. Then there is another problem with the third-degree teachers, who have not been qualified since 1996. In some cases they have been in the classroom for 30 years. Are they now at risk of not being admitted to the register? Or are they even at risk of termination of employment? Is there no possibility of a coulance regulation in this respect? There are complaints about the teacher register website. This would be incomplete and no information on continuing training would be provided. I would like to hear a response to this. Mr Rog also asked a question about this. Is this register going to increase the quality? Does it make sense for teachers? Is it necessary to lay down a legal basis for this? And, if so, should we not first meet the very legitimate demands of the Council of the State? Meanwhile, I see interesting coalitions are emerging. We see the trade unions, who are very much in favour of this. We see the Secretary of State, a great supporter. We see the PVV, a great supporter. On the other hand, we see the drivers, who are very critical. We see very critical teachers. I'm listening to D66 and the CDA, who are very critical. The SP is also very critical. This is gonna be interesting, at least in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. I begin by congratulating the 250,000 teachers in this country on this Teacher's Day. The last Teacher's Day I experienced in practice fell seriously into the water. The board had decided that also the janitors, the supervisors, the entire administrative staff and all managers should participate in the celebration, because the message was that teachers should not think that they were more important in the teaching process than all the other people who did their best. But in education, the teacher is just the main player. We can't get out of that. The interaction between the teacher and the student: that is the core of the story. Finally, there will be a professional statute in which this importance is recognised. This bill has been preceded by a great deal. The explanatory memorandum to the Education Occupations Act in 2006 already talks about the introduction of the Teacher Register. It was still a voluntary registry. The Court also considered that the field of education itself should first take the initiative to set up the register and thereby provide information on its competence and maintenance. At the initiative of the Education Co-operation and with our support, the voluntary register finally started in 2012. We have seen that participation falls short of expectations. In 2014, the Education Inspectorate notes that the voluntary teacher register is still very unknown. I find that really remarkable. There is no profession that complains as much as in that fine teacher's profession about things like workload, lack of status, pay. In such a situation one would expect such a professional register to be enthusiastically embraced; there is every reason to do so. For example, the explanatory memorandum states that "a description of the profession of teacher is included in the education laws. This description (...) assigns the teacher's responsibility for the subject-matter, subject-matter and teaching process." And now it comes to: "In line with the definition of the teacher's profession, this legislative proposal stipulates that teachers have sufficient professional, professional and pedagogical control" with regard to "the content of the teaching material; the way in which the teaching material is offered and the means used; the pedagogical and teaching approach to be used" to maintain this, finally, "in conjunction" as "comparency." The PVV Group believes that this amendment simply gives the teacher control over the core of his or her profession, real control over the content of the course and how it is offered. The teacher is thus the determining professional and no longer has to give way to idiotic teachings such as competence-driven education and all kinds of other forms that come from the Excel programmes of managers. I was just talking to Mr Van Meenen about that. There are therefore no more study landscapes, with 70 students of all levels who, very diverse, are all great together and mixed up. And not that "fun" that ever happened: "the teacher within walking distance." So that's all really big profit. Moreover, in the end there will be no more unauthorized and incompetent people in front of the classroom, who are endlessly held over their heads. Apparently, that's still possible. I also see opportunities for the portal to give real insight into how practice is actually in the different schools and what is happening to make things right. I believe that the government has taken responsibility for this change of law. It seems that this feeling was not sufficiently present in the profession. The teachers didn't have a storm. Moreover, the teacher register, and especially the front portal, is incredibly unknown to the teachers. I'm surprised at that. Could the Secretary of State express his thoughts on this matter? How come that celebrity's been left behind like that? Did something go wrong in communication? It remains to me that I appreciate that the cabinet has taken its responsibility and that it has not sat on its hands until the profession itself took action. Just a few more comments. A lot has already been asked about things that I was very curious about. The most important has already been expressed by both Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Meenen: the existing concerns about supply and, above all, the validation of continuing training. I am indeed afraid of the circus, which is already showing up, of all kinds of handy boys and girls who see a beautiful earning model in it. As far as I am concerned, this is a very important responsibility for the professions. The Secretary of State will answer this question anyway, because enough has been asked about it. I also have concerns about the MBO teachers, especially those in practice. The MBO is a complex form of education in this respect. I also have the concerns that have been expressed earlier about sanctions in the event of non-compliance. I have two other comments to make, but I see Mr Bishop standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u51	We all know that Mr Beertema is extremely fond of the teachers. Apparently, that teacher doesn't see the added value of that. Then Mr Beertema suddenly embraces compulsion: then they must be hunted in that register booth. Then he praises the cabinet that has carried it through forcefully and forcefully. That is one of the few times that I have heard a praise for the cabinet from the PVV. That's memorable, too. Can Mr Beertema explain this a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u52	That's not so bad. Or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u53	Against or against? Strike out what does not apply, I understand. However, I see a discrepancy in Mr Beertema's speech. On the one hand, there is the teacher who knows what he wants, who is in the business and who has to have the space for it. On the other hand, Mr Beertema criticises the same teacher who takes the space not to register in that teacher register.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u54	It's a strange profession. Lawyers and health professionals have no problem getting registered, precisely because it gives protection, status and, above all, control and professional space to these professions. You don't know this kind of discussion there. Education, and even the Committee on Education, is characterized by the fact that there is always something. The passionate crusades against a certain pedagogy in mathematics are truly incredible. I can also see a little bit of a sign here: supporters and opponents of the register show emotions and passions that I do not recognize. I missed this professional space at the time. If we had had this at the time and had an active profession, we would have been much more able to fight against all those educational renewals, which turned out to be destruction, and we would have had a protected position. That would have been worth a lot to me. If a little urge and compulsion have to come into play, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u55	I must conclude, however, that Mr Beertema's confidence in the profession of teachers is minimal. According to him, they are unable to make their own choice whether they want a register or not. If they don't see anything in it, it doesn't matter: go, in your loft, register! Is it true that Mr Beertema has little faith in this profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u56	There are thousands of teachers who are in favour of a teacher register, a professional register, and a professional statute. There are also those who don't care. I've always experienced that myself. There are just a lot of teachers who are completely ambitionless and want to roll through the work week as easily as possible without doing anything. In my last year in practice, I've been through this. We always copied a lot in education. There was another stencil from a colleague of mine with some assignments for a particular subject. That came from a 1965 method or something. I find that unbelievable. I can get really mad about that. Mrs Straus has already mentioned it: there are entire tribes of teachers who have never been trained in their 40 working years. They don't care, and it rolls quietly. I don't think that's a way of working. Again, I would like to put such a slight obligation behind it. Why not? It's good for the profession and the status. It's just not good for all teachers who don't feel like it, because they have other things on their mind that don't have to do with the profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u57	The question is, where are you gonna invest this? Why is the teacher who started working with that antique stencils?You have to explain what a stencils is nowadays, so let me say: that antique copy of the stencils is not addressed by his supervisor? That's the crux. Probably won't fix that with this register, is my valuation. Do you share that valuation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u58	Most of the members of the Education Committee are still familiar with the stencils, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u59	This amendment does not create a ready-made register; absolutely not. This is an ongoing project that will come along very often. Then we're all gonna make minor improvements. That's the way it's supposed to be. My hope and my expectation is also that the register will be part of the professional culture that Mrs Straus has talked about, which will include assessment interviews, working conversations and so on. In the 34 years I've been teaching, I've had four of those kinds of conversations. That was hopeless. I know people who've never had a conversation like this before. For example, the working culture is still in large parts of education. This is absolutely going to help to improve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u60	Before I give Mr Van Meenen the opportunity to interrupt, I would ask Members to keep these interruptions a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u61	I have another point to make. That can be very short. I would like to take a moment to explore with Mr Beertema how big that professional space is in his eyes. Let me give you an example not chosen at random. The Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers is an existing organisation that is also part of the Education Co-oporation. It is quite ready to use that professional space and makes a proposal to step off the calculation key. I assume that tests are also an essential part of a teacher's work in the eyes of Mr Beertema. My question is: will the profession in future discuss whether or not there will be or will be a calculation test?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u62	I think that's going a little far. It is not possible for a profession to abolish or acquire statutory examinations and tests. That's what other bodies are for. I don't think that's the point. I already hate that the Cito test has been abolished! We are not going to continue with that, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u63	Of course, that's exactly where the crux is. That is why the real significance of this for the professional space of the teacher is so threatening, because in the meantime there are still this Chamber and the Secretary of State who occasionally go against that professional space. They say: great fun when you all have math teachers in a register and there are nice words about professional space, but when it comes to using your expertise and knowledge in answering the question of how best to improve computational education, we'll just as easily push you aside and come up with a calculation test. That can never be true at the same time! Or you believe that this bill really introduces the teacher's professional space, including the policy on tests. Or you're just here keeping a cheap story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u64	I refer to the key objectives. I would like to draw your attention to all kinds of phenomena that occur, for which we as a Chamber must constantly have care and attention. That is our responsibility. It is argued from a variety of angles that children are no longer able to count and spell and that first-year students should have further training courses in the fields of d's and t's. Sounds like that reach us. Political decisions are being taken to do something about this. That's what the math test is all about. Then I say: the teacher's professional space does not go beyond recognizing that, but recognises that political decision and devises a methodology. Now it happens to be the case when calculating that a passionate battle has become between pros and adversaries of realistic arithmetic and so on. I don't think that's gonna make any sense. That's got to get its own batter. I would like to call on the professional groups, including the profession Mr Van Meenen is talking about, to finally reach an ultimate judgment, bury the hatchet and get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u65	The profession has come to the conclusion that the calculation test has to be taken out. The profession has not yet reached an opinion on whether or not realistic calculations are to be made. I agree with Mr Beertema. My point is only about the review. To what extent does the profession have control over this? If there is such a register, to what extent should we, from that point on, leave ourselves to the opinion of that profession rather than come up here with our own views on what is good mathematics?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u66	It is not possible for professional groups to take political decisions on examinations and tests. That is a matter for parliament. These are democratic decisions. Occupational groups have a different role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Beertema continued or ended his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u68	I have a few comments to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u69	Go ahead, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u70	In the process of agreeing to the legislative text, the LAR, the Teacher Advisory Council, had the role to be able to give advice requested and unsolicited. All sorts of complaints came in. The information reached the LAR far too late and was incomplete. What went wrong there? I have one more question. The evaluation shall be carried out within six years. Why is there a term of six years? Can't it be sooner? I would urge that the evaluation be made sooner. The PVV has always been a strong supporter of increasing quality and so on, but we wonder if its own law would not have been better. The Education Council has already asked a few questions about this. The Minister explained it, but he didn't really convince me. Can the Secretary of State go into that again? Doesn't something as important as this deserve a law of its own rather than being incorporated into the four sectoral laws? The social partners have already set up their own registers for school leaders and deputy school leaders. Why don't we take that in one move? They're so incredibly close together. Why can't we entrust this to the Education Cooperation? Then the registers are brought under one roof in one large movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. As a starting teacher, I was lucky enough to teach at a school where I was very well supervised. Fresh from teacher training I was full of energy and had fun teaching, but pooh, it was sometimes difficult. Sometimes it was difficult in class and sometimes contact with parents or colleagues was difficult. Teaching is only really taught when you do it, when you're in front of the class full-time and when you're fully responsible for everything you do in class. The intervision meetings were very welcome to me. I also occasionally asked a colleague to sit in the back of the class and give feedback after an observation. Unfortunately, not every school has arranged this well. And unfortunately, not every teacher who could actually use this has a taste for this. Once authorized is always competent. Colleagues just said it, too. You can stand in front of the class for 40 years with only your teacher education. But, as far as I am concerned, lifelong learning also applies to education. We must ensure that we create sufficient professional space for the teachers. In fact, they need three things: direction, space and back support. Direction can be given by a professional standard developed by, for and by the teachers. Space means that there is enough time to be able to train and afterschool. Mr Van Meenen has already mentioned this. We have tabled a motion on this together. It is scandalous that 62% of teachers have to do further training in their own time. Mr Van Dijk mentioned it as well. Teachers should have time for that. The third point is backup. Then it is about support from your employer through good HR policy and by accrediting continuing training. Can teachers now also accredit continuing vocational training? If so, then it's really from, for and by the teachers. But it's also about backup from your team. In this bill, I still miss team development. Mr Straus also asked for this. Team development should actually count for your registration. A team can be facilitating and protective, but it can also be disciplined. So it is very helpful if we take a step forward in that too. This bill doesn't fall out of the sky. That is what we have been doing for 20 years, so let us take the latest insights that the Education Council recently gave us with regard to that too, especially when it comes to team development. The PvdA supports this bill as it stands, but sees it as the first step. We can do better, but we have to take this step first. This first step gives the professional group control over the professional standard and the training of its members, the requirements when you are in the register and the conditions under which you must leave the register. I see this law as an important means of strengthening the position of teachers. By clearly defining the profession and paying attention to professional quality, teachers can maintain their skills in a targeted way. A legal guarantee and teacher's right to professional development will ensure even more quality for the class. In addition, I believe that a registration of qualified teachers will lead to more pride within the profession and ultimately to less unauthorized teachers for the class. On a number of points, I still have some questions, firstly about the ownership and control of teachers. The bill stipulates that all teachers who are competent will be included in the teacher register. They keep track of their professionalisation activities. Teachers work on competence maintenance for the purpose of re-registration. Whether they are eligible for re-registration is determined on the basis of criteria formulated by the profession itself. I think this is an important point. The register must be drawn up for and by teachers and supported by the profession. School boards should facilitate the professionalisation of teachers and are ultimately responsible for the professionalisation of teachers. I would like to draw attention to teacher control over their own development paths. I would not like the register to become too much of an employer's instrument. Do teachers have sufficient control over which professionalisation pathways to follow? Is it sufficiently secure that schools offer teachers the space to follow the professionalisation pathways and is sufficient time available for this? The hours required for further training are partly available among the current educational cao's, but we still hear sounds from teachers that they need to do further training on their own time. What is the reaction of the Secretary of State to this? I think it is important that teachers have an educational competence for the profession they teach, and that they broaden and deepen their ability to teach it during their education career. The teacher register must make it clear whether teachers are competent and what professionalisation they have followed. It is expected that this will eventually lead to fewer unauthorized teachers for the classroom. Where a teacher does not meet the re-registration criteria, a note shall be made to the register. After making that note, a teacher may no longer be responsible for the box in which the endorsement is made. Whether there is a legal effect on the employment of this note is determined in the relationship between employer and employee. The collective agreement parties agree on this. If, as a result of the failure to re-register, a teacher can no longer bear any responsibilities, it is possible that the teacher may be temporarily assigned to tasks other than teaching. I wonder if that's not too noncommittal. Although it is in the interests of both the teacher and the competent authority to re-register a teacher as soon as possible, attention should also be paid to the high workload of teachers. There is not always a replacement teacher available. The space to use a teacher on other activities is therefore limited. I wonder how this will work out in practice and whether teachers will actually receive other work on a temporary basis until they have complied with their registration. I would ask the Secretary of State for further clarification on this point. If teachers can stand in front of the classroom without re-registration, I would argue in favour of a sanction for school boards. On the other hand, I would like to ask for an explanation of the possibilities available to schools when a teacher does not want to meet the training obligations. If a teacher does not meet the requirements, and he is still qualified to teach, there is not a direct lack of employment. This could put schools in a difficult situation. What about the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u72	These are justified questions from Mrs. Ypma. My question is: how is this register going to reduce the number of unauthorized teachers in schools? Isn't it true that the number of unauthorized teachers can increase? You yourself state that a qualified teacher may lose his right to stand in front of the class if he does not meet the requirements of continuing training. At the same time, the school board simply retains the right to place unauthorized teachers, such as teachers in training, in the classroom. How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u73	Of course, you have to put a period of time on that and you have to indicate when the power has to be obtained. Let me stress that this bill is much wider than the register and much wider than this point that Mr Van Dijk makes. It's really about the position of the teachers. It is not very common, but I would like to endorse what Mr Beertema has said about this. I really think it strengthens the position of teachers. We also register that teachers are working to obtain their competence and we also register that they have their competence. We're gonna make that clear, and I think this is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's a bit of a general answer. Why don't you take a specific look at my point? The competent teachers in the register run the risk of losing their competence if they fail to meet the requirements. At the same time, the School Board reserves the right to appoint an unauthorized teacher. The register doesn't change anything about that. Now consider how the register will put an end to the number of unauthorized teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u75	We all know that there are a lot of unauthorized people in the classroom. We have wanted to do something about this for years. The SP wants that, too. I think that this means, this registration, at least makes the case clear. It's true that you have qualified teachers who aren't competent. Once authorized, doesn't mean you'll be able to stand in front of the class for the rest of your life. Yesterday it was the Teacher's Night. I then spoke to a teacher who said to me: "I find it so strange, that discussion about this. My husband's a nurse. There is no discussion that you will then be entered in the BIG register and that you will have to keep track of your competence." Isn't that what we're supposed to do for teachers? That's how I look at it. Teachers should also take themselves more seriously. It's a wonderful profession, and you should be proud of it. Then you can also show that you're getting educated and keeping up with your skills. It is not just a question of competence, it is also a question of competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u76	It's very concrete. A qualified teacher loses his right to stand in front of the class through the register. That's a case. Doesn't it make sense that the school board has to find a replacement soon? After all, nobody wants a class without a teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u77	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u78	Then there is a greater chance that such a school board will start working with an unqualified teacher, because it is available, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u79	With this bill, we want to ensure that a school board prevents someone from fulfilling the requirement of competence. That is why the trade unions are so strongly in favour of this. This is an empowerment for the teachers to say to the board: we want to meet our competence requirements, and that is why we want continuing training. That's what teachers really want. Give them the time and the budget to keep track of the skills. In this way, we will prevent teachers from being thrown away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u80	Can we turn empowerment into "push in the back"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u81	I am happy to take over from Mr Van Dijk, because I think he has a point. Mrs Ypma points out that it is of course very important that the teachers get a push in the back. At the same time, the bill regulates a duty for teachers, but what are we actually doing about the school boards? I have mentioned in my contribution the caravan of unauthorized persons, who leave school year after year, with temporary contracts. They never have to do anything. Maybe they want to, but they are not invited by the school. What are we going to do about it? Does Mrs Ypma agree with the CDA that we should also ensure that there is a duty in schools to start obtaining the right authority immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yes. Maybe this is a bit of a lame answer, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u83	It is a very clear answer, Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u84	Okay. I really think that this bill protects the teachers, and gives them more status and more control. This, for example, strengthens their conversation with the school board, as Mr Rog rightly pointed out in his example. That is precisely why I am in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u85	That is very good, because that means that I will be able to warmly invite Mrs Ypma to look at my amendment in which this is also secured. This aspect has not yet been included in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u86	I am very happy to listen to the contributions of my colleagues to this debate. I shall also be happy to look at their motions and amendments. I say again that I think this is step one. There's a nice bill now. I congratulate the Secretary of State, and especially all the people who have worked so hard for this. But this is only step one. We're not here yet. However, it is a very fundamental step that has actually taken us twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mrs Ypma continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u88	So this is step one, but not yet for everyone. In the NOA, the instructors in the MBO have agreed that they must have and maintain educational and teaching skills. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this should also apply to primary and secondary education. Why isn't this part of the bill yet? The instructors, the toas, the class assistants are not included in this yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u89	Beware of all those abbreviations, Mrs. Ypma. All kinds of people are watching with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u90	These are the technical teaching assistants (toas) and the National Education Agreement (NOA). Excuse me, Mr President, it is right that you should point this out to me. I say again that the Labour Party sees the introduction of this bill as an important step in improving the quality of education and reducing unauthorized teaching by teachers. If we want talent in the classroom to come to its own, teachers must also continue to work on their skills. The teacher register, drawn up for and by teachers, and that of teachers, ensures that there are expert teachers in front of the classroom who can be proud of their profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you. I see that Mr Van Dijk has another question. It really has to be about a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u92	Sure. I can also tell you that it is a crucial point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u93	That's what we're gonna hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mrs Ypma is talking about a register of, for and by teachers. That is a good point and I very much agree with it. However, the support for it has not yet been measured. Does Mrs Ypma agree with me and with the Dijsselbloem committee that we should secure that support, and therefore carry out proper research into that support before we resume a further educational renewal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u95	We disagree on this point. I think there is support for this teacher register. The SP and the Labour Party take the unions seriously, I think. These unions are very much in favour of this. Then who are we to say in The Hague: we do not want this law? I'd think that was really weird. So I am in favour of this and I think there is support for it among teachers. There are teachers who say: it can do even better. We should definitely look at that. I just said this is step one. So let's take the next steps. But this is a fundamental and essential step which I believe is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u96	I see that you want to respond to this, Mr Van Dijk, but you are not going to agree. Does it make sense to go into this three more times?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u97	Sure, because this is quite remarkable. Mrs. Ypma says the unions are in favour, so I'm in favour. In the future, we will know how the Labour Party is reasoning. I don't reason like that. I'll make my own decision. Besides, this is about teachers. There has been no serious study of the support of teachers for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u98	This is repetition, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u99	Then what's wrong with investigating that? This was also recommended by the committee of Jeroen Dijsselbloem, Mrs Ypma's party mate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u100	We don't understand each other. The PvdA takes the opinion of the unions very seriously. Of course, we will make our own assessment. But if you want to strengthen the teacher's profession, it deserves more professional space and control. That's what this bill does in its foundation. That is why there is broad support among teachers for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u101	Where's the evidence? Give me the numbers. Wide support. Mind if I take a look at the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u102	No, I already did. We're going to repeat now. We speak with a number of organs and with a lot of teachers. Every Monday and Friday I go to work. Last night I was at the Teacher's Night, I was at yesterday's overpowering, and I speak there a lot of teachers who strongly support this bill. I also speak to teachers who say that this is only step one, there are a lot of other steps to be taken after this. I take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u103	Your very last interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u104	This is top-notch amateurism, isn't it? Mrs. Ypma spoke to teachers yesterday on Teacher's Day, so there is support. We can't take this seriously, can we? What is against doing a serious investigation, so that we really get a representative picture of the teachers, rather than her own visits and conversations with teachers? She can't take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u105	I really object to this. Because we've been following this procedure for 20 years. Now there's finally a nice bill. If the SP also stands for the professional pride of teachers, it must agree to this. The SP is going to work on his own, isn't it? Every Monday and Friday I speak to a lot of teachers. We are representatives of the people, so we can represent the people here. I say that most teachers are very much in favour of this. They consider this step one, which should be followed by a number of other steps. We have to listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u106	What you say about most teachers...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u107	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u108	...is not based on figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u109	You shouldn't talk through me when I say "wait a minute." You've placed five interruptions at this point. I'm fine with it. If you have a new point, go ahead, but we are not going to repeat the same things here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u110	Excuse me. Mrs Ypma clearly says that most teachers support this proposal. For that she has 0.0 proof. She could easily solve that by saying: we're going to investigate, and then we'll come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u111	No, we're not gonna investigate that if it's up to me. Mr Van Dijk cannot prove the opposite either. I think he's just wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u112	I can go a long way with Mrs. Ypma's story. That's not very surprising, since my story was in line. But does she agree with me that the growing problem of the shortage of teachers in po and vo is going to get out of the way below, if we do not resolve this in time? After all, you cannot make demands on the professionalism of teachers if you do not have enough of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u113	I agree with Mr Grashoff that the imminent shortage of teachers is a problem. We have to take this problem very seriously, in search of solutions together. That's where we'll find each other. I only believe that this can contribute to that solution. If we ensure that professional pride comes back more, that the image of the profession is strengthened, that teachers set their own standards and that they accredit or train teachers comply with them, all this can contribute to more teachers, rather than fewer teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u114	I do not want to fall into a kind of tweeted democracy, in which whoever shouts loudest is most right. The world of education is a world that likes to let people know what they want. But things that I find interesting in substance are messages in the sphere of "the teacher register is not going to do anything about the teacher shortage, because if you don't solve that, we have and keep a very big problem." I'm glad to hear that Mrs Ypma agrees with me. I agree with Mrs Ypma that a teacher register can make a contribution in a sense, but does Mrs Ypma agree with me that it can at most be a small additional element to a much bigger problem that we need to address much more fundamentally, namely the lack of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u115	There is indeed a greater fundamental problem with regard to the shortage of teachers, and that is why I would like to see an active profession, a proud profession that can talk and advise us on this. I would like to have that conversation with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mrs Ypma made a comparison with the BIG register in the healthcare sector. However, the most important function of the BIG register is that you know whether or not someone's services are reimbursed by the insurer. I do not really see that a BIG register contributes to the status of healthcare professionals. The purpose of insurance and the like does not play in the teacher register. I am still looking for the goal that Mrs Ypma has in mind and why she is so positive. According to Mrs Ypma, what can be achieved with this bill, which cannot already be achieved with autonomy and good leadership in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u117	That's three points. Firstly, strengthening the position of teachers, because they describe their own profession and the professional space that teachers have. Secondly, ensuring continuous professionalisation, which broadens and deepens and stimulates and makes it visible. Thirdly, to reduce the lack of competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u118	I think these are aspects of leadership that are needed in education. I don't see why the government should impose rules on that from above. I think you need to work on developing leadership, and you don't do that with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u119	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u120	I would like to receive a further explanation from Mrs Ypma as to what you can do more than work on good leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u121	I'm going to repeat myself now. I gave the example of a school where I was lucky enough to have good leadership, where I got the professional space and got the backup from my school board. But Mr Bertema has just indicated that in the... How many years was it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u122	34 years. He repeats that on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u123	That in the 34 years he's been in front of the class, there's been four times as many conversations. I do not think that is a problem. My point is that we are not only there with this bill, but that it does help to make it more professional in this profession with teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr Van Meenen, if we don't repeat ourselves. I'm gonna test that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u125	I'm sure you should, but you know me. I was also at the Teacher's Night and that was very nice. By the way, the teacher register was not the subject of discussion there. I think we both talked to a couple of teachers at the drinks afterwards. I have spoken to a few of them who were less enthusiastic about it. I should like to return to Mr Van Dijk's point of view. Mrs Ypma actually says here: we always listen very carefully to the unions. I think that is an opportunity argument, because there are other subjects, such as the calculation test, where the Labour Party does not listen to the unions at all. Is it not true that listening to the unions in this case means listening to the union leaders? They also form the administrative board of the Education Co-operation. My question is, and I ask just once: would it not be a wise idea, indeed in line with what the Dijsselbloem Committee recommends, to check whether there is support for this or perhaps for another modeled teacher register?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u126	No, I don't think we should. We have had this discussion for 20 years. There is now at last a sound and just legislative proposal, on which many people have expressed a positive opinion. There are also many teachers, I am sure of Mr Van Meenen, who has also spoken, who are positive about this first step, but at the same time say: we are not yet here. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to keep you off lunch. Don't hesitate to interrupt. That only makes things more lively. What do you have to do in the Netherlands to be able to teach? Actually, it's very simple. It is stated in Article 23: you must meet the requirements of competence and the requirements of morality; the latter means that you simply have to behave properly. That's how we've been doing it for nearly 170 years. Today, as far as I know, we are discussing for the first time a proposal which seeks to restrict the right to education, namely through a teacher register. That therefore deserves a particularly critical attitude from Parliament. Many teachers wonder what the usefulness or added value of a teacher register is. In any case, I do not manage to find many teachers who are cheering me up and begging me to please embrace the teacher register and to enter it as soon as possible. This is obviously due to the selection of contacts, but it is no different. I do meet teachers who are afraid of additional obstacles and extra red tape. The legislator should therefore assess whether this proposal is necessary and adequate to ensure teacher competence and professionalism. I'd like to zoom in on the support area first. Despite all the tempting advertising and urge of the teacher fair, after all these years Mrs Ypma has rightly noted that the process has been going on for about twenty years now about 80% of teachers are not yet registered. That must be a shock, right? That's got to indicate something, right? That being observed, there are, to my taste, two possibilities. The first option is that you draw the conclusion that there is no need for it and that we will therefore stop, because there is no support for it. We remember the Dijsselbloem committee, which gave useful advice on the way in which education is conducted. Then we search for other means or substances to realize what is in front of us and what is widely shared: guaranteeing the quality of education and of teachers and giving them space. That's one possibility. The second possibility is that we move from urge and urge to compulsion. I note that with the proposal before us, the government opts for the second option and resorts to coercion. The government says it's good for the teachers and their professional pride. The teachers themselves have not yet discovered that, but the government thinks this is good for the professional pride of teachers, because they can derive their pride from that register. I wonder if that reasoning doesn't sound a little strange when we see how few teachers are warm for this. Shouldn't we just consider politically and administratively seriously whether this is really the right way to do it? After 20 years, 20% of teachers are involved. If it continues at that rate, with an increase of 1% a year, we will be there in 80 years, but do we have the right line? I think we should ask ourselves that serious administrative question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u128	This demand for support is actually getting more and more interesting. On the basis of her discussions, Mrs Ypma is convinced that there is broad support for this proposal. Mr Bishop says the opposite: there is no basis for support, because the register never got off to a good start of its own accord. Isn't it even more logical to say that we should investigate this properly? If you disagree, aren't you actually a little afraid to hear the actual results of that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u129	I do not know how colleagues find acceptance, but for me the percentage of teachers who have entered the teacher register on a voluntary basis is a very important indication. I also realise that there was a duty to be registered in order to benefit from certain financial arrangements. Then I seriously question the acceptance of such a register in this sector. There's no harm in getting support. There is no doubt that there are experts who know how to shape and give substance to this. If Mr Van Dijk comes up with a motion to make time and money available, I will give a positive advice to my group on this subject, provided that this motion is in real terms and does not contain too much rabid language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. May I conclude that I am very pleased with this response from Mr Bishop? He can assume that this motion will be drafted in very real terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u131	I'd be happy to work with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u132	Any party that takes the Dijsselbloem Committee seriously should support this motion because we agreed that we would no longer be making major innovations without support, and now we do not know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u133	Let me answer with the following sentence, then we have already had it: And isn't the criticism of previous innovations that the enforcement and continuation of plans has gone wrong? It may serve as an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u134	I am surprised by Mr Bishop's statement of support. There are letters from the Education Cooperation here. This includes not only trade unions, but also teachers' organisations. These are the organized teachers, not only along the union band, but also from the professional organizations. It is a dome that we wanted with each other and which now explicitly says: this is a good proposal. Should the Chamber not say in the first instance: we assume that there is sufficient support for this, otherwise we might expect that this broad organisation would not come up with this proposal or would not wholeheartedly agree with this law, which has been explicitly indicated in our direction? I also note that the school boards have a critical attitude, but at the same time there seems to be support for the principle of a teacher register. Should we say to each other that there is no basis for support? Mr Bishop said that only a quarter of teachers volunteered. Frankly, I do not think that is a super high percentage, but it is certainly not a percentage from which you can conclude that there is no support. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that, in these circumstances, it makes more sense to return the question of acceptance and support to the organisations and the profession instead of conducting a sort of survey here again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr Bishop does not agree with Mr Grashoff for the simple reason that we should therefore ask ourselves how many members of the profession are actually represented by the unions. It remains a flaw, but the profession is many times larger than the number of members of educational associations. In this sense, only the dialogue with the organized part of the field of education is largely insufficient to implement and impose such a far-reaching measure with such far-reaching implications and consequences on the whole profession. I encourage Mr Grashoff to be extremely cautious. I read a percentage of a maximum of 20 a week ago it was still 15, but that seems to have grown rapidly, and Mr Grashoff is talking about 25%. You can try to raise it this way, but let us not forget that four fifths of the profession at the moment have not shown any interest in the register at all. I would encourage him: look at that. Moreover, with Mr Van Meenen, I appreciate the efforts of the Education Co-operation and the fact that he is doing so. I would like much more investment to be made in broadening the support base. We are at great risk of having to find out in two years' time that it has become another gigantic flop because we have not listened to the wishes of the people from the field and we have not picked up enough of their signals. That is why I do not agree with Mr Grashoff's approach: I think it is highly unwise to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u136	It's still weird. Together, we wanted the profession to be heard more firmly and to be organized more firmly. Now this is done not only by the trade unions but also by teachers' organisations. They say that they think this is a good and balanced proposal and then there is a stubborn Member of Parliament who, from nothing, happens to read a couple of two words: no, there is no support. I also read and talk to people, but I have to say that there is still a great deal of ignorance about the proposal, that there is a great deal of cynicism that could be removed over time and that the main criticism is that the problem of the shortage of teachers has to be solved. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that you can work with each other to arrive at conditions on the basis of which the support is growing and this is being perpetuated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u137	I do not know who Mr Grashoff means by the epithet'selfish MEP reading the two readings'. I didn't talk about the two of us, and I'd appreciate it if we could continue to treat each other courteously. I'll leave it at that. I told my story and I'm afraid I won't convince my colleague Grashoff. The risk is great, as I mentioned earlier, that the register is perceived by teachers as a stick with which they are beaten rather than as a stick on which they can support because of their supposed lack of development. I would like to draw attention to the strong criticism of the Council of State of the proposal before us. The Council of State has not laid down any conditions which should be met in parallel with the establishment of the register. You should have those terms in advance. As a final piece, you can think of a register. Moreover, I think it is presumptuous to continue to say that the register is so useful when it can simply be seen, apart from two or other things, that four fifths of the profession, 80% of which, on a voluntary basis, do not seem to be in need at the moment. Then you must have the courage to question the basis of support. I would like to make a few points about this support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u138	It could be that you have already dealt with a lot in the interrupting debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u139	Yeah, well, I'm just scanning so I don't do any duplications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u140	You understand the hint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u141	The actual introduction is still a long way from us. We have had little practical experience with this system of training in particular. Why does the importance of a good understanding of continuing training not weigh so much that we should first look at how practice is developing on the basis of this proposal and then settle its entry into force with a separate proposal? In other words, if you want to do this, shouldn't we cut those things up? Why did the government not specifically choose to cut up the route for mandatory registration in the system and the decision on sanctions in case of non-compliance with the obligations and thus not to offer two stages? The question arises as to how far the government is really convinced of the usefulness of the register. She does not see the need, I read, for a register in higher education. This is where agreements have been made with institutions and between the social partners. However, there are also old agreements for secondary and primary education, the MBO, which are still in force. This reasoning undermines the vast majority of the argument for the register, doesn't it? If this proposal is really crucial in order to maintain the credibility and quality of the teacher in the future, then it is just as necessary in the other sectors. I'm gonna go into training. The SGP has so far lacked a clear vision of the nature of continuing training. When I look at the approved continuing training offer of the register, I do not always get the impression that it is training that is indispensable for teachers. Sometimes it looks like offering an opportunity to fill the hours and sometimes it looks a bit like a candy store where you can sniff to your heart's content, eh, shopping. The SGP believes that a teacher's register should not be a good system of identifying all the interesting things that the teacher has done in the course of further training, but a means of ensuring that he has mastered the essentials of his profession. For example, is it only essential for a car technician to read out faults and the technological innovations taking place in his field, or can he also fill his list of points with nice courses about an introduction to the professional standard of teachers, or through participation in some event or an educational parade? I'd like to hear how the government views this. I would like to mention one more point in relation to the freedom of education. The government argues that the proposal does not further restrict the freedom of education. We would like to hear a more detailed explanation of this. This is an issue for us, as the Secretary of State, and the whole cabinet, by the way, know. At present, only the competent authority can be called upon to maintain the competence of its employees. If the employer fails, a teacher may not be directly affected by the lack of an competence file. However, this proposal excludes teachers from teaching if they do not meet the requirements of the register. This is simply a tightening-up of the current rules in the area of personnel policy. As regards the appointment of staff, therefore, there can be no doubt that there is a contradiction with the freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u142	I assume you're asking the Secretary of State to go into that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yes. I had already said something about this at an earlier stage, but thank you for this clarification. Are there any alternatives? In the Chamber we have talked recently about the function of adequacy requirements. The government and the inspection initially said that robustness requirements are too limited to promote quality. With that story in mind, it is quite remarkable that the obligation to maintain an competence file has been neglected even for years while there was a need for correctness. There's no competence file in more than half of the teachers. In some sectors this is even the case in 75%, but this is not really taken into account in monitoring. Against this background, the SGP considers it more logical to focus firmly first on enforcement and possibly supplementing existing rules. How can the government claim that this route does not provide sufficient incentives when it has never really been taken seriously? Teachers need further training in line with the practice of the school and the team. Yes, of course, because that's a matter of being able to do your job well. And being able to do your job well in education has everything to do with survival. The skill file is a beautiful tool, which serves both the perspective of the school and the interest of the teacher. The joint responsibility of both parties is reflected in this. However, this unity is under pressure at the teacher register. The rights and obligations are directed at the individual, and then we must hope that there will be sufficient time and money for the team and the school. Can the Secretary of State state state why he does not opt for the more balanced approach that the competence file, with any legal adjustments, brings with it? Finally, I would like to ask two questions, which are of a more legal nature. Firstly, the bill aims to give teachers sufficient control over matters that affect their profession, such as the content of the teaching material. At the same time, the government states that teachers must work within the educational framework of the school. Can the government explain how this goes together? How can you control your teaching material at the same time and still depend on the decisions of others? I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reflection on that. The second is also more of a legal technical nature. The consequences of non-registration appear to be contradictory in the proposal. Take primary school. Contrary to what is claimed in the documents, the term "power" does occur in the Primary Education Act: under Article 3 (1) of this Act, teachers who have a diploma are entitled to teach school education. However, on the basis of the proposed Article 38m. a teacher who no longer meets the criteria of the register shall not be responsible for school education. How can you be competent to provide school education and at the same time not be responsible for this education? Such a lack of clarity can lead to major problems. I am considering tabling an amendment on this point, but I would do some minor repair work, although I am actually in favour of retaining this whole proposal, going in another direction, in particular taking into account the opinions of the Council of State and putting it on a path, with the final result being the teacher register. I am not against a teacher register as such, but that must be a logical result of a journey that has been walked. And in that respect, we still have a long way to go. If we don't take that road, we're really gonna run the risk of this slipping. I wouldn't allow the teacher's register as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u144	Because of that glimmer of hope, Mrs. Ypma comes straight to the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yes. How much longer is it gonna take? We've been working on this for 20 years, haven't we? Doesn't colleague Bishop agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u146	Those 20 years, or how long we've been doing that differently, I don't think that's an argument. In that case, we haven't done the right things all these 20 years. Over the last 20 years, we have apparently not been able to prevent the Council of State from taking very critical notes in its opinion on what would still be needed. If we had done so, we would have been standing here differently and we would probably have said unanimously in the Chamber: there is support for the teacher register and it is a logical conclusion to a whole process. You pull a dead horse for 20 years, it doesn't make it alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u147	Can I ask Mr Bishop if he will support the rest of this bill? There are wonderful things in it, aren't there? According to paragraph 1 of Article 31a of the Treaty, several colleagues have read out the text "Teachers now have responsibility for the subject-matter, subject-matter and teaching process in the school. Paragraph 2 deals with the assessment of educational performance. Paragraph 3 refers to the content of the teaching material and the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u148	You're not going to read the whole bill, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u149	No, but I do have these three points. There is also something in the bill about maintaining the competence as part of the team. This is a beautiful bill, isn't it? On the contrary, I would expect the SGP, which is still a state-of-the-art party, to be in a position to do so and to support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u150	These are indeed fantastic articles. Then your heart jumps up and you think: hey, finally there is the room promised by this cabinet for the professional. However, I would like to remind Mr Ypma that anything that stands with the current instruments can simply get hands and feet. That's just not gonna happen. I mentioned the oversight of the jurisdiction and the competence file. There's an obligation. If a teacher comes into a school unauthorized, he'll have to get his authority within two years. That is an obligation, but because it does not always succeed, it is possible to extend it by two years. However, it is not checked. If the instruments that are there are being used, you don't need the teacher register. This may end up with the idea that it would be nice if we could record it all, but that hasn't happened for decades. It's gone downhill, it's not looked back, it's neglected, it's exhausted. However, the instruments are there, really. Let's use it: dusting, polishing, using.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr Bishop says it himself: it is not happening now. His conclusion is that there is no need for an additional instrument, but we need to monitor it better. This is essentially meant to be able to do the same: to register it and to return pride and control to the teachers. Then we'll have to embrace this and stand in front of it together, won't we? This is step one. We must, of course, consider what further steps we need to take, but this is an essential step. I expected more support from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u152	Failure in policy will not be repaired with the proclamation of a new instrument and the hope that it will be okay. In failing policies, it helps to check whether you really lack instruments. My conclusion is no. The only answer is then: use the existing instruments and set up the process in such a way as to give them a concrete place in supervision. I have every confidence that it will be all right. With such a new instrument, however, you do not make the mistakes from a growing practice; really not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-3.u153	This was the first term of the Chamber. It was a rather lively and fundamental debate. After the arrangement of work, we will continue with the reply of the Secretary of State.
