ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Speaking time is running out. That's going very well, so I'm gonna wait. This is a special moment, because these are the last general political considerations before the elections. We noticed that very clearly with Mr Roemer. Now that the end of this reign is in sight, is it time to draw up the account: has the cabinet delivered? Let me go back to the first full-fledged general political reflections of this reign. I then sketched a picture of what the Netherlands would look like, I hoped, so what the general political considerations would be like. I outlined a Netherlands where companies dare to hire people again, where employment is increasing and unemployment is falling and more houses are being sold. I outlined the picture of a country where citizens' taxes are finally falling again, a country where more people have come out of the assistance because they are improving hundreds of euros when they start working. I sketched a country the whole world once again looks at with great admiration for having done it again, those Dutch. I also remember the scepticism with which my prediction was received at the time. The blind people in this house thought that we were cutting things down; we would only make the crisis worse. Nothing has turned out less true, because it is not yet 2020 and the things I have just described are real at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u2	I remember very different things. I remember a strict immigration policy, €1,000 for every Dutchman, more authority for the police, law and order and hands off the mortgage interest deduction. These are all things I remember and I think the whole of the Netherlands remembers them. On many parts, however, nothing has happened, but nothing has happened at all, if it is not the opposite. Could I ask Mr Zijlstra the following at the beginning of his term? No one had asked for it, but the Prime Minister apologized on his own initiative. He said: I should not have done that, that was a mistake of mine as a political leader of the VVD. Does Mr Zijlstra think that he should also apologize?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u3	On the first question, whether Mr Wilders is allowed to ask, the answer is yes. He can ask. On the question of whether there are things that have not been fulfilled by the VVD, the answer is indeed yes. To my deep sorrow we have not gained 76 seats. As a result, we have not been able to deliver on all the promises contained in our electoral programme. If Mr Wilders wants me to apologize, I am happy to do so. Next time, I'd like to get 76 seats so I can make them work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u4	I'll read that as an apology. It is to your credit, Mr Zijlstra, that you have said this like the Prime Minister. The whole of the Netherlands knows that you have broken asylum record after asylum record. I also mention the law and order of the Minister of Justice of the VVD. The reality is that people are dancing on police cars and that the strict immigration policy means that last year alone we brought in 60,000 luck seekers. It is to your credit that you say that we as a VVD have done badly...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u5	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u6	...and I understand that the voter is running away from us. I understand that, and it's to your credit that you're actually suggesting that. What's even more important for the people at home to know is this. Four years ago, you also said that we are going to do so: a strict policy, €1,000, not asylum seekers, but it happened differently. That was because you were going to rule against all promises with the archenemy. List leader Rutte then called the Labour Party a danger to the Netherlands. You're ruling that out now, aren't you? Because then the voters will know that it will not happen again and that next time you will not rule with the Labour Party again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u7	I'm just trying to follow this cobblestone. Let me peel her off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u8	The people at home understand it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'm just gonna get rid of her. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Wilders' suggestion that we did not ensure that there could be just law and order enforcement. Last week we had a debate in which I listed all the possibilities that the law now offers to police and prosecutors, and above all to local authorities, to deal with wheeldrivers dancing on a police car. And as far as I'm concerned, they're being dealt with. Soft healers make stinky wounds. We have seen this in Zaanstad, for example. I can't sell that. If I went dancing on that car, I'd know one thing for sure: I'd be pulled off that car very quickly. How come those people get away with it and make a video of it? That has to do with the fact that the instruments that are there are simply not being used. Rules and laws apply to everyone in this country. We have made them and they must be maintained, including by local authority. So don't come to me with the story that we let the wind blow there and didn't make it happen. That didn't work out with all the promises, that's right. Then there is cooperation with the parties. We always work with parties who are willing to take responsibility, with parties who, when the country is in bad shape, do not run away and say, 'Oh, it's going to be difficult now; I'm going to go to the emergency exit; I can't take these measures anymore'. That's what a party like the Labour Party adorns. We have major differences of opinion. Mr Samsom and I agree in the end, but I can tell you that this is not always self-evident. But what Mr Samsom adorns is that he stayed seated, even when it became difficult. Mr Wilders didn't do that, and that doesn't suit him. At the first headwind, he was like a cat in the dark. He didn't know how fast he had to run. And I don't work with runaways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u10	Then Mr Zijlstra's answer is crystal clear. It's a good thing he's telling you the truth. Four years ago, the Prime Minister said: there they are, the Labour Party, the biggest danger to the Netherlands. Then he promised the Netherlands that he would introduce a strict asylum policy. He said no more money to the Greeks. He admitted that law and order had to be better and stricter in the Netherlands, but then he did the opposite. Now the leader of the VVD in the Lower House, with a loud applause from his own group, says that he does not rule out the fact that he will rule again with the Labour Party after the elections. And that's what he does on a curve, which is that we would have run away. That's right. We didn't want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u11	You did run away back then, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u12	Yes, we did not want pensions, health care and VAT to be reduced again. We are not going to see that, and we are not going to see that. You went into business with the Labour Party at the time. And you're actually saying we might do that again in a minute. If the Dutch in the coming months hear Mr Zijlstra or Mr Rutte talk about law and order, about being strict, about being close across borders, about lower taxes, they know that all that is boiler music. We have now heard that there is a great chance that the VVD will go back into business with the Labour Party. Thank you for that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u13	Let me put it this way: I would like to promise that we will not cooperate with the PvdA if the electorate gives us 76 seats. I promise you, we won't do that. But the Netherlands is a coalition country. If we make less seats, we'll have to rule this country anyway. There are parties, and not just the coalition parties, who have taken responsibility. But there are also parties who immediately ran away when responsibility had to be taken. That was Mr Wilders' party. So don't come up with the claim that we are going to work with the PvdA, or with D66, or with any party. We will not exclude any party that wants to try constructively to make the Netherlands better. That applies to all parties that wish to do so. That is what we said last time, and that is what we are saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u14	This was another interesting round, Mr. Chairman. And I'm sorry for my promise. Mr Zijlstra's choice is understandable. But what if they're 74 seats? In the VVD-box there remains a bit unclear whether cooperation with the PVV is negotiable or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u15	I just said it: all the parties who want to take responsibility for making the Netherlands better. The party you're talking about, the PVV, doesn't take that responsibility. So I don't see that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u16	"I don't see that happening." Yeah. Minister Schippers didn't rule it out. We've all been watching the Prime Minister in Summer Guests for three hours in anticipation: would it come? No, it didn't. Luckily there was a beautiful movie afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u17	At least you've lasted three hours, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u18	So you're not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u19	Well, that's news, Mr. Roemer! Now let's get back to the wording, which says, "I don't see that happening." I'd rather just hear: that's not gonna happen. But seriously. You're getting one of those scrubbers from the PVV again. Because of Rutte I people have the idea that if they vote for it, parties would want to work with it. I would think it wise of the VVD if she also said: listen to what you heard today, just look at the facts; they are runaways, they do not deliver. And not "I don't see it happening," but: that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u20	I think that Mr Pechtold is looking for something which, how shall I put it, goes beyond what we always do. We are never going to rule out a party in principle who wants to contribute to the future of the Netherlands. I think D66 always has. Then I look at the facts. The PVV is just a bunch of runaways; when things get tough, they're gone and they're no use to you. So the moment they have to stand up for their constituents, they just go out the door. We are not going to work with such a party, because that makes no sense. If they did take responsibility, we could always start the conversation. But, as I say to Mr Pechtold, when I look at what that party stands for... That "Less, less!" and that for certain groups in the Netherlands restricting religious freedom is also very far from the VVD. The socio-economic policy of the PVV is more left-wing than that of the SP. That is so far from a liberal party, I think it is almost impossible. But yes, miracles exist. I heard Mr Wilders say before the elections: the age of AOW remains at 65. I think the election was over for an hour when he got back to that. Perhaps it is my religious approach that I still sometimes believe in miracles, but honesty commands me to say that I do not believe in that at the PVV. So I just don't see it happening. I'm not going to rule out a party in principle, but I don't see it happening that VVD and PVV are in a next cabinet, even if it was just arithmetic. In the First Chamber we also need a majority and it is not re-elected. So you need at least four parties. Well, then we have the PVV; who should we add? D66? Green Left? The PvdA? The SP? The CDA? That group also has very good experiences with cooperation with the PVV. So it's a purely theoretical discussion. It's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u21	I know about the CDA, because it survived that near-death experience. There is, however, the hope that there will be another one after that. I ask you because you use the word "principle." The AOW is an important theme for me. I am pleased that we have introduced the AOW measure, because it saves billions and fits life expectancy. I am concerned, however, with the fact that this is exactly what we are both trying to do, that people are being thrown away and that they are being called 'less, less'. We also support a good motion by Mr Graus on animal welfare. We did not draw a cordon sanitary around the PVV, but we do have a clearly different social and human image. My party says the following before the election. Supporting a motion on animal welfare or baking about the AOW, that's what we'll do. We always have the conversation, especially with the people who think there's the solution. However, we are not going to form a coalition for four years with the PVV. We have had this party once, and that has slowed down the crisis and increased the problems. We don't do that anymore. I would like to hear that from the VVD section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u22	That's about what I'm saying! If you don't mind, I'll use my own words. We think you should always look at what a party does, the same way you look at what Dutch people do. It's not what people think, it's what they do. However, let us be clear. Look at the PVV. I myself and the Prime Minister have spoken clearly about the "less, less" and the removal of religious freedom for certain groups. The VVD will not experience that: it will not cooperate with a party that feels so. And that's what she thinks now! But yes, if the PVV throws the whole program in the trash at once one day after the election because she wants so badly, as happened with the AOW, I might go and see if she really means it. It would also be wise for Mr Pechtold to stop by, even if it was just to have the fun of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u23	Please continue, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the prophecy. It's mostly come true. That's what happened, let's face it. We've had a really tough couple of years. The financial and economic crisis has hit hard. People have actually felt that in their wallet, they have lost their job or their home has come under water. Whatever the negatives claimed at the beginning of this reign, however, we have put things in order: our economy is growing again; here in the Netherlands it is. This does not happen in all those countries where there has been little or no intervention. The Minister of Finance made a fine comment yesterday about the French battle. Those countries are still in big trouble. Thanks to this cabinet, intervention and order have been put in place. However, the most important contribution is that it is also clear that it was delivered by all those enterprising and hardworking Dutch, who felt it personally. Thanks to them, new jobs will be created. Thanks to them, prosperity is increasing again. Thanks to all these silent forces, this year there was room for a load relief of 5 billion. Thanks to them, we can invest in our security, in defence, in care and good facilities for our elderly. But the economy may have been put in order, but people still feel it is not enough. They feel that this is not enough, for example, because they do not yet feel it in their pockets, because they have not yet received a new job or because they feel that care for the elderly is really not appropriate in some nursing homes. It is therefore high time that Dutch people really felt the recovery. That is why we must continue to make the Netherlands stronger step by step. That is why we must continue to reduce the burden, so that those hard-working Dutch people have certainty. I'm talking about the security of a job, the security of an affordable home and the security of a good pension. But with that, and that's the bad news, unfortunately, we're not taking away all the uncertainties. We may have got the economy in order, but in the meantime a lot of things have happened in the world. The world has become a lot more dangerous. That's why we have new concerns now. We have concerns about migration, about security, about the freedom in which we live.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr Zijlstra is using next year's budget for a look back. It's okay. Everyone's choice! He looks back on the economy. I thought that when he looked back, he would start with what was the most important issue for the VVD before the elections: integration policy. How do we deal with new Dutch people? If he looks back on the past four years, what is the policy that makes the difference for him? What is the policy that will really remind this cabinet as a cabinet that has changed it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u26	Unfortunately, I have to disappoint Mr Van Haersma Buma, because there is not one measure that can ensure that integration succeeds. That must be a sum of measures. A measure that is very important here is for example: no Dutch assistance, no assistance. You cannot park here on the sidelines, live in your own world and not participate in society. When you're at work, you integrate, you get a social life and you become part of society. That is an important measure. I would also like to mention the integration requirements and the plans of Minister Asscher for a declaration of participation with consequences. You need to know what the Netherlands stands for and you need to connect to it. And if you don't stick to that, it's gonna work. But apart from such measures, it is the most important that we all, in this house and beyond, once dare to be proud of the values and freedoms that the Netherlands stands for. I'm assuming that's what the CDA stands for. We must dare to defend them, we must not hide them and say: well, let's let it go a little bit. Maybe that's the most important thing we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u27	That is not such a convincing answer, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u28	To be honest, I thought it was pretty good myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u29	That's what I was afraid of. For the 2012 elections, integration and the problems surrounding it were one of the main issues. It was a very important theme, also in the Netherlands. I do not remember that in the period before that, people did not want to defend freedom, the values of the Netherlands. It would be nice if we started that in 2012. That participation statement is cute! The world doesn't change. Look at what happens in Rotterdam and Zaandam. What I think is the worst, and I also address you to that, is the following. One of the things we did have was that someone had to pass his or her integration exam. Otherwise, that person wouldn't get a residence permit. There was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u30	In fact, there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u31	And what happens? It's not maintained. It's not maintained anywhere. And who's responsible for that? That's this cabinet, that's Mark Rutte. The Prime Minister says that in four years we cannot restore what has been done 30 years before by others. If you look back on the last four years, you can't be proud. And you're not gonna get it with that participation statement! The gorges have grown, also in this area. It would have decorated you if you'd acknowledged it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u32	I mentioned a few more things. I said no Dutch, no welfare. I mentioned the integration requirements. I mentioned a demand for resources. If you want to bring people here as part of family reunification, you have to have a certain income, so that we can be sure that you can support your family members and that you will come back when they come here. Those are all matters that matter. I mention the law that states that it has consequences for someone to apply for facial clothing. Then someone doesn't really want a job. It's all in that kind of business. However, I would like to say one thing to Mr Van Haersma Buma: I will not say here that we believe in this house that there is one measure that will make integration a little miracle at once and that will make it all okay. After all, there is no single measure. It is a combination of measures. We have to stand for what we think is important. These are measures that encourage people to work and to participate in society. These are measures that make it clear what this country stands for. We have done that and we will have to continue with that, but unfortunately there is no Columbus egg with which you, tap, have arranged everything at once. I wish it were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u33	It remains that the measure that we have and which is important will not be maintained. I want to know why it is not maintained and why the VVD accepts it. Many of the things mentioned by Mr Zijlstra come from previous cabinets, for example from the previous cabinet. I mention the demand for income and the demand to take people with me. Those things are all older. Mr Zijlstra may refer to them, but he cannot say: thanks to this cabinet. This has also been done in the 30 years before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u34	I'm just looking at what my party has contributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr Zijlstra is trying to make very great what the VVD has done in the field of integration, and that is permitted. But pay attention to the big difference between the period before the elections and the period after that. One measure is important: if you do not comply with your citizenship obligation, you will not get a residence permit. Why has that measure not been maintained? Why does the VVD accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u36	When it comes to implementing business, I say that law has now come. That law is enforced, but within the current possibilities. I shall come back to this later in my speech. We have a rule of law. Among other things, there are a number of treaties that sometimes prevent us from sending people back. We must also dare to take those steps. I'll get back to you in a minute. But that law is there and it's just being enforced. I wish it could be used a little more often, because there are cases where I think: those people have come because of family reunification, but why can't they go back if they don't settle in? Sometimes international treaties get in the way. I'm not from the department "we're gonna break the law." Then we're gonna have to change those treaties. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr Zijlstra mentioned safety a few times in his speech. The VVD has been on the buttons at the Ministry of Security and Justice for six years now, but what's the result? Half the police stations are closed. The resolution rate is lower. The willingness to report is lower. Thousands of convicted criminals aren't in prison, they're out on the street. And thugs are dancing on police cars. How can Mr Zijlstra explain that? He sees security policy as a success. He mentions all kinds of measures. But how does the VVD manage to make the Netherlands more unsafe rather than safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u38	We could use numbers to magicalize. The number of registered declarations has fallen from 1.2 million to 900,000, but I do not think that is the subject of discussion. If Mr Bontes wishes to point out that in the Ministry of V and J, let me say politically euphemistically, not everything has gone well, I am the first to acknowledge that. Mr Roemer was just joking about it, but it is true that it has not all gone well. Is that a lot to charge? I do not think so, but if Mr Bontes is pleased, I wish him well. It is a question of whether people feel safe on the streets and whether they are kept on the streets. Then I agree with Mr Bontes immediately. When I look at the television footage of someone dancing on a police car, I also think it is impossible. However, this has nothing to do with measures and rules that would be lacking here. Those measures and rules are all there. I am one of the initiators of the Act measures to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance. I tabled the initiative proposal together with Mr Spekman, then MP for the PvdA. That law offers a variety of possibilities for dealing with these types of wheeldrivers, but you have to use them. As a policy in The Hague, we create the frameworks and possibilities so that police, but above all local authority, can use them. If they do not, I assume that a city council in such a place addresses the mayor or the triangle, because that is where it belongs. But here we just set it in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u39	I am fighting the idea that it has been set in motion, because there is still far too much going on in that regard. Only in the fairy tale world of the VVD has it become safer. I shall give another example to Mr Zijlstra. A VVD Secretary of State is proposing to release life sentences earlier. Mohammed B., Theo van Gogh's killer, is likely to get off early. How can Mr Zijlstra explain this to the victims, to the next of kin? How can he explain that to his supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u40	That is a very justified point from Mr Bontes. In the area of criminal law, I always thought it was one of the great things about the Netherlands that life was lifelong, that the murderer of Theo van Gogh would be put away for life. As far as I'm concerned, the same thing happened to Pim Fortuyn's killer. However, a state of law also has to do with independent judges, and that is even more important to me. Now judges have made it very clear that, in the light of international treaties, we need to build in a review moment. In addition, Muhammad B is looked at. Let's take him as an example, because that's what I call it. If he does, he won't get out. Then he just sits there. However, a review period has to be built in, because otherwise judges will not be allowed to impose a life sentence. I want judges to continue to impose on Mohammed B for life.It's from this world. If that means we're gonna have to build in a review moment like this, we're gonna do it, even if I didn't have to. I just want judges to keep imposing it. If I were to do what Mr Bontes suggests, the result would be that no one in this country will live for life, and I think that is wrong for these types.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u41	Finally, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u42	A very weak story by Mr Zijlstra. To explain to no one. No one will understand this. The election promise was more punishment and less understanding for criminals. The reverse is happening now. The voter will pierce through that, I guarantee you. Look at the confidence in the Minister of Security and Justice. That's 8%, the lowest figure ever. So the VVD on safety is not a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u43	I disagree with that, but Mr Bontes will not be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u44	Before a fog blanket is raised about the future concerns of the VVD, I would like to go back to the first part of what Mr Zijlstra said. In his contribution he mentioned the enterprising and hardworking Dutch. He was right to point out that not everyone still benefits from it. About 60% of the Dutch do not benefit from this. I would like to know who Mr Zijlstra means by 'the enterprising and the hardworking Dutch'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u45	That's anyone who works hard or wants to work hard. Maybe that's too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u46	It is very good that this is made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u47	Can I add another one? Everyone who's worked hard, too, because I don't want to forget the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u48	I would like to add the entrepreneurial Dutchman who is in SMEs. Mr Zijlstra also knows that 25% of SMEs, according to research carried out by the European Central Bank, have very difficult access to credit. If we look at the purchasing power development of 175% of the statutory minimum wage, compared to 500% of the statutory minimum wage, we can see that the top incomes are six times higher than those hard-working and enterprising Dutch that Mr Zijlstra is referring to. Can he put his hand in his own bosom and say here that he really stands for all those hardworking Dutch and for all those enterprising Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'm gonna have to try and place this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u50	Then I'll explain it again. 25% of SMEs' entrepreneurs indicate that they are difficult to obtain credit. Does the VVD also stand for the entrepreneurial Dutch who are difficult to obtain credit? And if so, why have these entrepreneurs not been helped enough over the past four years? I am also talking about the hardworking Dutchman, who is about 175% of the statutory minimum wage. That's about a modal income. The top incomes are getting six times better than those modal incomes. Those are also hardworking Dutch. Those are the plumbers, the policemen. Those are people who work very hard too, but in the VVD's vision they are making less progress than all those people who are in the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u51	I seem to be asking a second question, or actually it's the same question. I could not put that question because Mr Kuzu is presenting an image that is not correct. As far as the hardworking Dutchman is concerned, I don't have to explain that this includes entrepreneurs. And entrepreneurs must be able to undertake. There are indeed some problems in the area of lending. Fortunately, there are also new initiatives with crowdfunding and the like, but if you look at banks and the way in which they are lending now, it can do a lot better. We also cause this in this house, because through the AFM and DNB we have imposed so many supervisory requirements on the banks, that they do not dare to do anything anymore. So we also need to look at ourselves a little bit. But that these entrepreneurs should have room, also financially, in order to be able to undertake, I immediately agree with that. As far as the second point is concerned, I had to dig very deep. The highest incomes would have improved six times as much as the lowest incomes. I shall be honest with you, Mr Roemer, I have just heard with increasing amazement that if there is one thing that has hurt me this cabinet period in cooperation with the PvdA, that is that the interpretation of honest sharing at the PvdA is something different from ours. As far as I'm concerned, sharing honestly is that people who work hard can earn more and that doesn't have to go to the bottom. We have not done everything to the bottom, but you can blame Mr Samsom a lot, but not that he has not managed to do that at the bottom everything has been properly compensated and that people have been neatly put in their income there. Now, in this house, let's stop talking nonsense. It has hurt us, but we have done so for a good reason, because it was necessary to help this country out of the crisis and to make people earn more at the bottom, so that it can work out and there is no poverty trap and then you go down in income. We all did. The people with a minimum wage in this country have had the largest income increase of all groups, if you look at the percentages. That's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u52	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u53	There's exactly the crux of the whole story. The VVD reasons in percentages. If we're going to convert the percentages into absolute numbers for that, you can take page 58 of the Macro Economic Exploration, because that's where the percentages are going to be. That's where we're going to come up with very different figures. When we talk about 175% of the statutory minimum wage, we are talking about gross €2,700, when we talk about 500% of the statutory minimum wage we are talking about €7,700. If you convert the difference in purchasing power and those percentages into absolute numbers, you get quite different figures out of it. Mr Zijlstra also pointed out to me that we all have to take responsibility for this, as far as the SME applications are concerned. Mr Zijlstra is a coalition partner. For the last time I ask him the question: do we mean by enterprising and hardworking Netherlands all hardworking and enterprising Dutch people or only a certain part at the top of that income ladder?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u54	When I say "anyone who works hard, wants to work hard or has worked hard," I don't care what anyone deserves. For me, someone with a minimum wage is as valuable as someone who runs a big bank. I really don't care. I think, with all due respect, it's also an idiotic contradiction. Then there's the equation with absolute numbers. I like that one. In the past, when counting on primary school, they taught me that if you take a percentage of a low amount, you'll have less left than if you take a percentage of a high amount. The same applies to the increase in income. If you earn a ton and you get 1%, that's €1,000 and if you earn €10,000 and you get 1%, you get only €100. If Mr Kuzu's plea is to make that right, then I would be happy to go along with it, but then we will do the same for taxes. Then we will also ensure that everyone pays absolutely the same taxes and then we will stop using progressive rates, because then we will really be honest on that point. I am in favour of living in a country of solidarity where the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. And yes, that is often exaggerated by the left. This is why the VVD regularly steps on the brake. I do not want to go to a country where, on the basis of this kind of simplistic calculations, we pretend to be wronged here. Here, an extremely careful income policy has been put in place by the cabinet. Cut the crap!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u55	Finally, and very briefly, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u56	It is clear what the VVD stands for when it comes to taxes, but this is taken into account in purchasing power development. As far as the increase in percentages or absolute numbers is concerned, this is taken into account. It's the figures of your own cabinet! They're not my grades, they're the macro economics reconnaissances of the central planning agency. If you try to ignore that, we also know what the VVD stands for, clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yes, the VVD stands for all those hardworking Dutch who want to work, who are at work or want to get to work or who have worked hard. All of them, from low to high incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u58	I was just afraid my hearing aid was broken or the ring line wasn't working properly here, but I really heard it. Fortunately, Mr Zijlstra has repeated it once again: the VVD stands for the people who work hard, people who want to work hard but cannot, and also for people who have worked hard. However, over recent years, the purchasing power of older people has been staggeringly lagging behind the workforce. Is that fair sharing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u59	I think you should always look at the people who helped build this country. We have done so very carefully. Those people have made a lot of efforts. They can no longer work to raise their pensions, that's over for them. That is precisely why we have looked at the purchasing power plates. In the spring of the so-called Queen Constable I unfortunately use a professional term that comes out just before the summer holidays, these people turned out to be at minus 1.7, I say out of my mind; decline. The cabinet, the coalition, has really invested hundreds of millions, almost 800 million, to make sure that these people went from a minus to a plus. We can do that. In addition, there are employers and employees who manage pension funds. That's not what this cabinet is about. Employers and employees must do so. The consequences of this need to be seen. Some pension funds will be fine, while others may have bad news. But there's nothing the government can do about it. What we could do, we did. That is where most of the money has gone, and I do believe that this is right for the people who built the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u60	Two things. First of all, there is too large a group of older people who have not improved and are even at a minus, also in the figures presented yesterday. The statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics are ready-to-use. Two. We are dealing with the rules that pension funds must apply. Doesn't your party think it is unreasonable that, according to the Tax Administration, between 2.5% and over 5% of profits can be made, while the pension funds, which have made much more profits over the past few years, we all know that we have to rely on poor accounts? This is not an agreement between employers and employees, it is an agreement that must be made because we, as politicians, impose it on pension funds. You must find that unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u61	We have the task of 150 here to ensure that we serve the entire Dutch population. Pensions are a great asset. Now we have pensions and nowhere in the world is it so well arranged. We must ensure that the young generations, say Mr Klaver's age, will also have a pension. That's why we're looking at calculus interest and that sort of thing. Surely it would be wrong for Mr Krol to change the temporary forever at some point, Mr Klaver would have to pay the bill and no longer have a pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u62	That's what it's all about. Then there's the question of whether people have gone backwards. No doubt, I'll admit that immediately. Purchasing power figures are a world in themselves. We all try in this house to fine tune it so that people come out as well as possible, as balanced as possible. However, no situation is the same, so there will undoubtedly be people who are going backwards. There's no way to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u63	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u64	The third question was about efficiency. The VVD is in favour of taxing real returns. She finds it unfair to work with fictitious returns. We still do. It's a little more real, but it's still fictional. It is completely unfair that, for example, an older person who has had his own business and who has to live on the interest he receives in the account on which his money is written, is supposed to have a fictitious return that may not be there. That is why I want to get to a real return. A lot of people want that now, too. I would point out, however, that those who have a much higher real return are quite quiet at the moment, but they will probably come forward. However, it is the only fair system, if you want to do capital taxes. The VVD would prefer to say: that property has already been taxed; you first worked and then paid tax on it; why do you have to pay again if you have saved? That is our starting point, but I believe that we are the only party that feels that way. Since we are in hopeless loneliness on this point, we are focusing on the rate of return and we are saying that it is based on the real rate of return, because that is the most just.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u65	Finally, Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u66	It would be very nice if the VVD would argue that pension funds should also use this real return. One more comment: people up to 35 years of age have only contributed 5% to what is now in these huge pension pots.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u67	I do not mind going to a real rate of return in terms of calculation, but that means that we have to move to another system. Then you have to move from a system with a collective pot where you just get money from, to a system with individual jars. That can be controlled collectively, but then you can go to a real return, because then it is your specific pot. Sorry to bring Mr Klaver back in, but at the moment Mr Klaver is paying Mr Klaver's generation pension premium for Mr Krol's generation. That is the reality. That is why we need to calculate a low rate of calculation, because we want to prevent young generations from having a pension later on. We have that responsibility. We're trying to compensate the elderly today for too negative effects, but I'm also looking at younger generations. After all, I have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u68	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Zijlstra for standing up for my generation and for showing that there should be no generational conflict. I also believe that my generation should stand up for the 45-plussers who represent Mr Zijlstra and that people who, for example, become unemployed after 15 years, should get back to work as soon as possible. That is also our responsibility. There must be no generational struggle; we must work together. I have a question about inequality. In my opinion, Mr Zijlstra simply has a point when he says that the working people in the Netherlands with the lowest income have improved most. I'd like to zoom out a little more. I would like to look at everyone in the Netherlands, not only the people who work, but also the people who have benefits, for example people who are disabled or people with AOW benefits. Those groups have made the least progress in recent years. Why does Mr Zijlstra call that "fair sharing"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u69	What do I call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u70	"Honestly share." I understand that this is a very strange word for you, but it was in the coalition agreement somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u71	I was just surprised that Mr Klaver brought that up, because honest sharing at GroenLinks is usually that you take money from people who work hard and then give it to people who don't work. So we are thinking differently about the question of what to share honestly. The VVD wants that work to pay off. We want someone who is on a benefit and who can work to really pay to go to work and not to have such a person go down net when they go to work. We managed to do the same. You can only do this because the gap between people with benefits has not deteriorated, because the benefits have even increased slightly in the past cabinet period and to increase people who work. There are two ways to do that. You can lower the benefits. We didn't choose that. We have kept the benefits in balance, because at the time of a crisis you should not do that to people. After all, there is not always work. Now that the economy is recovering, we are ensuring that people who are able to go to work, who are going to take that step, are making extra progress. If you let the benefits grow, you have zero effect. It only costs a lot of money, but it doesn't get more people to work. I think it is important that people are given the opportunity to get to work and that working actually pays off. That is what has been done with this cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u72	Employment figures are among the government figures which are still very disappointing. The approach to looking at inequality is primarily through employment. The real reason why there is too little employment does not have so much to do with the tax system, but much to do with reduced public investment. ING also pointed out this last week. Why does the VVD think it is justified that the differences between workers and non-working people increase enormously? Why does the VVD allow inequality to grow in a world in which people feel insecure, in which people in Britain vote for a Brexit, in which Trump might be in power and in which more and more people feel threatened in their existence? If the VVD says it's important to share honestly, why didn't the VVD also make the choice to let everyone get the same advantage, at least as a percentage? That was possible, because there was enough money. Last year there was 5 billion available. At that time, the choice was made to give this primarily to the people with more than twice the mode, and not to the people who have the least in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u73	The tax reduction that has been made this year has indeed gone to people who work and in particular to those who have lower salaries: from low to modal, one and a half times modal. These are exactly the people who paid the price of the crisis in previous years. After all, it is not possible to take out very much of the benefits in the current systems. So these people paid the bill. Can it be that if there are signs of recovery and we can finally reduce taxes again, those who have paid the bill will see the benefits of it? We did. To be honest, I think that is very fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u74	The bill was paid by everyone. I think it is very good what is happening for those with the lowest incomes. I fully agree with that. The cabinet can give itself a compliment in that respect, because it has done very well. I am only talking about the people who have also paid the bill for the crisis. Sometimes I can be a little bit bothered by that, as if you were just a citizen and paid for this crisis and helped to get out of it when you worked. A lot of people stood involuntarily on the sidelines. It was a choice. We could have let these people get a little more ahead of it, so that there was a more honest sharing. That choice wasn't made, and that's fine. But also people who were not able to work for a while have earned it just to make more progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u75	I don't keep understanding that, but that's gonna be on me. We treated these people nicely. We didn't cut the benefits. The Prime Minister said in the declaration of government that we are ensuring that these people have enough ice under their feet. That's what happened. But we have indeed made a choice, which we have made, although Mr Klaver apparently makes another one, that the groups that are making progress are the groups that can make the leap from a benefit to a job. They are hundreds of euros a month. That is what we are talking about! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That's why it pays to go to work, right now. There was a time when people who were on benefits wanted to work, but there was no job. That's why we didn't cut the benefits. I didn't manage to do that at the PvdA anyway, but that aside. In addition, the economy has recovered. Now there's new jobs. Employment rates are top. For the first time in years, there have been more than 10 million jobs. It just doesn't work on the unemployment figures because more and more people who had withdrawn from the labour market are now returning to the labour market. So there's still insufficient recovery. The cabinet must continue to do so in the last six months, just like another cabinet. Everyone in the country must feel the recovery itself and feel that you are making progress when you go to work. I think it's fair to share: if you work hard for it, you have to survive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u76	It is about fair sharing and about a fair treatment of different groups, old and young, rich and poor. I would like to suggest to Mr Zijlstra another group, namely families. With the same family income, families are taxed differently. Families living on one income have a much higher tax burden than families living on two incomes, with the same income on balance. Is that fair? My answer would be "no." Wouldn't it be fair to use a different tax system in the future to fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u77	The debate on a future tax system seems to me to be a very good subject for the elections and the subsequent formation. Mr Segers is talking about the sole earners. That group was in the minus; that group was also in the minus. For this, too, the cabinet and the coalition have considered how we could get that group up and out of that minus. If you are trying to do it in a balanced way, that group must also be able to join. That has been done: that group has gone from a clear minus to a unfortunately I understand that Mr Segers would have wanted that to be more, but then you come up with fundamental things that the Christian Union and, in my opinion, the SGP think differently from the VVD. These are matters such as the double tax rebate or, as we call it, the counterweight subsidy. How do we ensure that women are not kept at home, but actually given the chance to go to work? That step of the double tax rebate does not involve emancipating parties such as the VVD and the PvdA. We are prepared to compensate through child schemes and so on. We have succeeded in doing so, but we are not prepared to put aside emancipatory measures in favour of the position of women in order to further improve the income position of such families. We have not made that choice. You may blame me, but that is my political choice. I understand you might be in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u78	It's not about emancipation, it's about guardianship and thinking about how to combine work and care for families. They can freely make a choice. It may be that the man stays at home. Someone might want to be a caretaker for a parent. One of the partners may be chronically ill or disabled. Indeed, the cabinet has reserved extra money for that group. That was a commitment, thanks to our group, among other things. However, that is only a small part of the group. People who live together, think and live in families and not in individuals. It is unfair treatment and unequal treatment of the same family income. That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u79	Frankly, what we are doing is right. If two partners had one income, they could use twice a deduction. That was, in professional terms, the double tax discount. That happened every year. We have said: if you have one income, you can only subtract once; if you have two incomes, you can indeed deduct twice. I think that's fair. That does indeed have income effects. Mr Segers has a point when he quite rightly says that there are families where there is no choice at all, because you have no choice if you have a sick woman, a sick man, a very sick child or sick parents for whom you care. Then you can't say, "I'm going to work too." After all, all the time and all the worries are already in there. We are always prepared to see how we can come up with a solution for that group, because those people should not be the victims of the fact that they cannot make a choice. However, in the case of the group which may choose to work both of them, they both have a deduction or that only one of them is working, there is a choice of their own. Then I'll stand where I stand. That's the family's choice. If a family makes that choice, that's fine, but then that family doesn't get a double deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u80	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u81	Eventually, this leads to guardianship. If someone chooses to spend more time with the children or to be a caregiver for a parent, that is a choice made in freedom. Surely that freedom of choice should be an aspect and value that appeals to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u82	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u83	The well-known fiscalist Leo Stevens says that the current tax system does not connect in this respect but divides and places people opposite each other. If you think about a new just tax system, shouldn't it be a commitment to look at it, so that there is an equal tax on equal pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u84	I am in favour of a fair tax system. I do not know whether Mr Segers and I mean exactly the same by 'just'. For me, it is just that someone who works has the same rights and duties as anyone else who works. I felt it was unfair for a family that had chosen to work only one member of the family, unlike families who chose to work both, to receive twice a deduction. That's really weird. This is too much technique, but the rule is that the tax discount applies to one person. We had a very crazy exception in the law: if you were a single earner, you got that deduction twice, while the other didn't work. I think that's unfair. Now we have freedom of choice, because now it is the same for everyone and it is just your choice to say as a man and a woman, or as a man or as a woman and a woman, that you are either going to work or that one of them is going to work, and then you choose the consequences. I think that is right, and I will try to keep this in a tax system, if that is changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u85	We are talking about a known battle point. In the discussions last year, I noticed that many people said that they understand the principle, including what Mr Zijlstra is now referring to, but they find it a bit crazy that of the people with a family income around €40,000, the sole earners pay five times as much tax as two-earners. Didn't something really crazy happen in the measure? Does Mr Zijlstra see this pain and want to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u86	I have just said what I think is right, that is to say that the situation for families is the same, but that you are being paid for the choice: are we both going to work or are one of us going to work? That is the guiding principle for me. If there are irregularities in this, which makes it unfair because a group is burdened with exactly the same burden as a two-earner family, I am prepared to look into it and certainly into a new tax system. So if Mr Van der Staaij is referring to that, I can say that I will certainly look into that in a next tax system, but on the basis of the guiding principle that it is a choice of one's own to work or that only one is going to work. One must have no advantage over the other; it must be equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u87	This seems to me to be an excellent point to discuss in a new tax system. Is that freedom of choice really freedom of choice? I assume that this also applies to the issue of pay for work, for which the VVD is still sensitive. Surely it is not true that a single earner who now earns €27,000 should turn in instead of making more money if he earns €5,000 more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u88	Situations where at the end of the ride you have less left when you go to work, seem to me to be a very bad incentive to get people to work. I have just discussed this with Mr Klaver. If such situations arise, I do not doubt that we must tackle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u89	It is good to see whether we can still do business on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u90	I was talking about new concerns. We have got the economy in order, but the world has become a lot more dangerous. We now have concerns about migration, security and freedom in which we live. I noticed this summer. I went on vacation from Schiphol and on the road there you drive past all those heavily armed soldiers. When you drive past those men and women with those big guns, you know very well that everything is being done to prevent attacks here. At the same time, I also know that we can never guarantee that it will not happen. That's pretty oppressive. I had this oppressive feeling when I watched the television and saw the attack in Nice. I was on vacation in Nice two years ago and I also walked over that boulevard; I don't think it was just the 14th. When you see that footage, you think... I won't say what I thought then, but then a lot of certainties go away. I imagine a lot of people have this. I caught myself feeling a little relieved this year when the gay pride was over. I thought, "Hey, nothing's gonna happen." I don't want to live in a country where you're relieved if there's been no attack during the gay pride or the Nijmegen evening four-day, excuse, the four-day, because it's daytime. I wish that fear would not be necessary, but unfortunately the reality is different. That is why I am pleased that the cabinet in this budget is spending so much extra money on security, because it is our duty as politicians to recognise concerns, to take them seriously and to provide them with solutions. Unfortunately, simple solutions do not exist, because a problem does not solve itself by shouting loudly. Mr. Wilders is getting up right away. Nor are problems solved by clean hands. No, solutions are rarely simple and they are rarely without spots.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u91	It is not a question of spending extra money on security, however important it is. The point is that we recognize the problems of all this misery. It may not be politically correct and everyone can joke about it or get angry about it, but the problem is the Islamization of the Netherlands, Islam, the ideology of hatred and violence. All the attacks you mention, I also have a list for my term of office, which is inspired by and the result of the Islamisation of Europe. They are all the result of the open borders. They are all the result of leaving hundreds of thousands, millions of people in our continent, without saying: it is ours and here our rules and our values apply. This is ours and not yours! By letting that happen and not hammering it out, we see people all over Europe killing innocent people, including Muslims, all over the world, shouting "Allahoe akbar." They also kill Muslims in Istanbul, but they also kill Muslims in the free West. It can't be that way. I can get really angry about this and even emotionally... that we're just looking for the solution in extra money for the AIVD or the police. That's what I'm here for, by the way. But we will have to free the Netherlands from Islam. If we don't, we won't exist anymore. Then we will have no more democracy and there will be no more freedom. Please, get on with that, too. Money alone is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u92	When it comes to Islam and radical elements in it and what that means for our security, Mr Wilders is right. Many of the attacks have a radical Islamic background. I don't think anyone in this house is running away from that, and we shouldn't run away from that either, because that's a fact. But I believe in the value of this country. This country is built on the foundation of freedom. This includes the foundation of freedom of religion. If we in this country suspend our freedom for groups, that will be the end of this country. That is why I am not going with Mr Wilders on that point. I want to go a long way with you when it comes to fighting radical Islam. I would like to go a long way when I look at the problems that arise from this, but I would stop if we were to put aside our freedoms, for which we have fought for hundreds of years, for certain groups, and it would adorn Mr Wilders if he also stopped taking that step. Because if you do, it will be the end of our country. Then we actually threw all the basic things we stand for in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u93	With all due respect, I say it's exactly the other way around. They're using our freedoms to take away our freedoms. Islam may be dressed as a religion, but it's not a religion. Islam is an ideology that, unlike all other religions, wants to dominate. If you are a member of Islam and want to leave it, this will lead to the death penalty. It is not a religion and we are using our Constitution and our fundamental rights to take it away from us. I have been accused that our proposals are contrary to the Constitution. Well, if there is anything that is contrary to the Constitution, I can immediately mention ten articles in the Constitution, it is Islam. We do not need defenceless democracy, but we need a resilient democracy. I advocate that we stop Islam from growing, that we see it for what it is. I say again that I am not talking about all Muslims but about ideology. I'm talking about it being a state-of-the-art violent ideology. If we do not stop the expression of it and its growth and do not ban parts of it, there will be no future for our children and grandchildren in no time. Then we have the sharia in the Netherlands for which women, homosexuals and apostates pay an expensive price. Islam wants to dominate. He doesn't want to integrate. That's why these young boys dance to those cars and they don't care about the authority. They do not do so with the Qur'an in their hand, but they do so from their culture. That is why the attacks in Nice, Marseille, Paris and Brussels were carried out in the name of Islam. Please see that. Mr Zijlstra may blame me for being politically incorrect, but believe me, we lose our freedom if we allow people and their ideology to abuse our freedoms in order to take them away from us. Then I say, "I'd rather take them away from you than take them away from us." Because that only makes the Netherlands stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u94	The funny thing is, it's not funny at all, honestly, I can go a long way with Mr Wilders when it comes to abusing our freedoms. I watched a broadcast on Danish television; there was filming in a mosque and they showed what was said in there and what was hanging out. In the NRC there were texts spoken in a mosque that were much more radical than the words used outwardly. Yeah, there's regular acting on the edge, and sometimes about it. You have to deal with those cases, too. You gotta be tough on those guys. I agree. We must make every effort to do so: to hunt, to security services, to administrative detention. Make it up: do it all. What I really disagree with Mr Wilders about and where I leave off is that we say 'they're going to take away our freedom, that's what they're after'. Some of them are after that. That's right. Some of them are after it. However, that is not Islam. We have to get rid of that fact. For a lot of people, it's a religion. You cannot say: Muslims on one side and Islam on the other. Yes, Muslims, that's Islam. In the Netherlands, we really had to fight religious freedom with blood. In that country, we are not already restricting these freedoms to prevent us from losing our freedoms in the future, are we? That is what Mr Wilders is doing. I agree: it is never going to happen to the VVD that the Sharia is introduced here. Never. That is an anti-democratic system in which the equal position of men and women and of homosexuals and heterosexuals is no longer there. That is a violation of every freedom in this country. Never! But I am not going to restrict the freedoms we have here because Mr Wilders is afraid. I'm scared, too. I'm scared sometimes when I look at that footage. Then I'm like, "What the hell is that?" But I'm not gonna let that guide me. I'm going to stand for our freedoms that all our ancestors have fought so hard for. I am not going to abolish our freedoms now for certain groups, because that is precisely the end of the Netherlands I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u95	I didn't even say anything, and they...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u96	It's unbelievable. I am absolutely convinced that the debate that is being held here, essentially more than all the financial things we discussed, is at the heart of people's concerns. Mr Zijlstra mentioned this earlier. This is a big problem in a country that wants to be a democracy. That democracy is not without dangers. We must be aware of that. I say to Mr Zijlstra that emphasising freedoms is only half. I wish it were that easy. Indeed, there are obligations against freedoms. I would point out that we are sometimes too easy in appointing freedoms and rights, while we are underemphasising the duties that exist. That is what my first question is about, because I would like to get the VVD involved in that. Organisations wishing to move freely in the Netherlands must at least be in favour of that democracy. In Germany, organisations that want to use democracy to overthrow it can be banned. That's what's supposed to happen here, isn't it? Mr Zijlstra himself said that you cannot keep your hands clean. That's what I'm convinced of if you want to keep democracy going. The second question concerns the glorification of violence. The VVD says that's freedom of speech. I'm saying this isn't true. It destroys our democracy, our values. We cannot be naive about that. Doesn't that have to be, like in France, a criminal offence at last?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u97	I'll just peel them both off. First, I deal with organizations that undermine our democracy. To do it right, a very sharp distinction must be made between what people think and what people do. Anyone who does anything to undermine our democracy or our rule of law or to remove our freedoms must be dealt with by the VVD. We say that all the means must be available to do so. But those people do something. In Mr Buma's words, I can tell you that we must do the same with thought, but we must not fall for that. Someone may think that democracy is the most ridiculous system on earth. I think that's a crazy idea, but I think someone should think so. I'm not gonna come up with any more examples. Everyone can think of me what he or she wants, because that is a great freedom. But there is also responsibility, and I go along with Mr Buma. You can only turn a thought into action limited. You should not use such a thought to undermine the rule of law or democracy, to overthrow it, to commit attacks, you name it. I think a very hard line should be drawn there. And that line is drawn, too. Freedom comes with responsibility. But we have to be sharp. We must guard these borders very closely. I was just talking to Mr Wilders about this. If you don't guard it yourself, you can find out at the end of the ride that you've lost all your freedoms. Thinking's okay, but we're gonna play ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u98	There's something between thinking and doing, and that's what it's about. When it comes to thinking, of course you come up with your lyrics about a thought police and so on, but that's fine. However, it is also about speaking: wanting to spread your word can also be very dangerous. That's what that club that's banned in Germany: Hizb ut-Tahrir. I can barely pronounce that name, but I'll do it so we know what we're talking about. That club has also been on TV in the Netherlands. I don't think that's normal. I do not think it is normal for us in our democracy to say: of course, say it all, as long as you do not do it. Saying is not just thinking; saying you do so in the hope that everyone will do so. And that's where the danger lies. I would also like to point out the risk that we, as politicians, will be calling names and participating. You said don't yell. Then let's not do that, but let's do it. It is too naive and too easy to say that speaking becomes dangerous only when it comes to direct calls for violence. I do not want to call for or plead in this country for the overthrow of our democracy. The VVD shouldn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u99	I'd rather someone pronounce something like that so we can have the discussion with that person and use freedom of expression for the ultimate. You'll hear someone find something like that, because he'll pronounce it. You can fight him or her with arguments. You can then write articles and have debates with him or her, to show the rest of the Netherlands what an idiotic position it is and that we should not go that way. If we banned that, that person would really not find any other things. All he'd do is sit under the radar. He'd be spreading that poison without our eyes on it. In a strong democracy, this debate is being held in public. Freedom of expression is the counter-force against all unfree sounds and thoughts. If this freedom of expression is not protected, the balance in democracy and ultimately democracy will be destroyed. That's why I think people should think business. I believe in that passionately. People get to think the most idiotic things. We must always defend that they can, but we must never defend that they can turn such thoughts into undermining actions. Let me give you an example. I wrote an article on this last year, with enough justification to make it clear exactly where the lines lie for us. Undermining actions are such a line for us. You know what I think is crazy? We have freedom of religion. That's a great right. Why can we ban a foundation or association that is taking state-abiding action, when we cannot ban an organization that is taking state-abiding action but has nailed a sign with "Church Society" on its door? That has nothing to do with freedom of religion. This is an exception which, in such a case, facilitates state-abiding actions. We believe that action should be taken against this, because our freedoms will indeed be abused in order to do something wrong. But thoughts, I keep repeating. Everyone in this country is lucky to think what they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u100	I think that a lot of the uncertainty in the Netherlands stems from the fact that people hear all this and perhaps not think differently than Mr Zijlstra: hey, nice that he says that, that's allowed here. Those people then think that such a person really wants it and that that person wants to overthrow our democracy. And we can't let that happen. Mr Zijlstra mentioned a law article specifically about church societies. If he says we should be able to ban the Catholic or the Protestant Church. Fine, that's for him to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u101	I'm not saying that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u102	But when it comes to religious organisations carrying out state-undermining activities, the police also come along. Really! It's no different. It's about freedom of religion. We don't think otherwise. I also believe that we should take action against radical Islam, for example, and against Salafism in the army. The Minister doesn't think so. Says salafism in the army, that's okay. You can't do that. My point remains that if we want to protect democracy, we need to have one step more guts. We disagree on that. That is that what we cannot hear, what really undermines and destroys democracy, also says: we do not do that here. If they ban it in Germany, if they ban it in France, then so can we.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u103	If this organisation is doing undermining activities in the Netherlands, we must ban them here too. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether it thinks otherwise, but I do not have the impression that it does. If an organization is developing state-abiding activities with which it is trying to overthrow our democracy and our freedoms, then it is indeed necessary to act and prohibit such clubs. But that's got to be the case. This is also part of the rule of law. If they're thinking it alone, I'm gonna keep making that cesura, then that's not enough. How reprehensible that thought is to me, by the way. Let there be no misunderstanding about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u104	I agree with Mr Zijlstra when it comes to freedom of expression. We have also tabled a bill. When I hear it like that, I'm fine with the VVD's support. However, Mr Zijlstra also mentioned the drawing of a hard line. Does he think that mosques calling for violence should be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u105	This must be done at the moment when state-undermining activities take place in mosques. That is precisely the reason for Mr Azmani's proposal. I call it the fact that you nailed a sign on the door saying "I am a mosque," which would make you inviolable. Freedom of religion does not go that far. Freedom of religion is faith in freedom. Then you can believe anything. But you can't take advantage of that freedom to overthrow democracy. So that's exactly where the border is. There is, indeed, still a lack of clarity in the legislation on this point. That is why, with an own-initiative proposal, we have also ensured that this clarity is given. That has nothing to do with freedom of religion. That is what Mr Wilders is proposing. He says just close mosques because they're mosques. No, people can just believe. But when state-undermining activities take place in that mosque and people are undermining democracy, then you can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u106	That's the problem. There's no interference. For example, the El-Tawheed mosque in Amsterdam is still open. There is also my problem with Mr Zijlstra. He does use a lot of words, he wants to tackle everything and says that it all happens, but a mosque has never been closed in the Netherlands, while violence is being preached.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u107	If you want to go that far, that's a very radical measure. The beauty of a rule of law like the Netherlands is that you must be able to prove it. The D.A.'s office is looking at these cases extremely carefully and correctly. That will not be stopped by all kinds of political correctness. But it's got to be hard on a judge. I find that very good in a rule of law like the Netherlands. Eventually, something like that has to hold up with a judge. We don't close a mosque because the word "moskee" is on the façade. That must be because there are provable things that do not relate to a democracy and the freedoms we have here, and they are trying to overthrow the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u108	Of course the judge has the final say. But there has never been a case put forward in that area. If there is a demonstrable call for violence and then the mosque is not closed, then are those empty words that Mr Zijlstra preaches here? After all, a mosque has never been closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u109	The fact that no mosque has been closed, you might as well explain the other way around. Apparently, the situation has never been such that the D.A. saw enough in it to prosecute. I'm very clear about what I'm saying. Freedom of religion and freedom of expression are absolute. You can believe what you want, and you can think and find what you want. But if the border is crossed by state-undermining activities and the overthrow of our democracy and our freedoms, action must be taken. That border is there and it is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr Zijlstra and I were very concerned about the number of Salafist organizations in the Netherlands not so long ago. In fact, we have tabled a motion together in which we state that a list must be drawn up and that that list must be made public. What does Mr Zijlstra think about the fact that after all this time the cabinet refused to carry out this motion because it was a long time ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u111	I think the cabinet did carry out that motion. I've seen a letter come by about that. I must say that the cabinet has sent better letters during this cabinet period, but the dates are not there and that is the difficulty for him. It's very difficult to give data when there aren't. I think it is a good interruption by Mr Roemer, because, frankly, I did not have it in my mind anymore. I therefore put this question directly to the cabinet. What's the latest? What about these organizations? Mr Roemer and I expressed our concern. When do salafistic organizations move from thinking into undermining? When are they actually undermining our freedoms? We need to keep an eye on this constantly, because not only individuals but also organisations can radicalise at a very rapid rate. We have to be on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u112	I would be happy to help Mr Zijlstra. We're not gonna get anywhere with good talk. The cabinet indicated in April that it wanted to investigate this, but at the same time said that it was all difficult. That investigation still needs to start. Let me be careful: it seems as if there is incredibly much unwillingness, while it has been said Chamberwide that this list should be established because there are clubs in the Netherlands that undermine integration. I'm gonna keep going, because this isn't the only point that proves that. The cabinet is also still in talks with organisations that can be shown to stand with their backs to society and do not want to promote integration at all, to say the least. I can talk to the Cabinet about what they want, but they're just gonna go through with it. It happened again last week. What does Mr Zijlstra think of that? Shouldn't we finally put a line through that? If we really want to give people fair opportunities in this country and really want to promote integration, we need to stop talking like that. We must work together to promote integration so that everyone in this country can participate. Can I count on you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u113	Sure. If organisations oppose integration, they should not receive subsidies and should not be the only interlocutor to speak for a particular group. But you have to keep talking to them. I think that is quite different. There's never any point in not talking to organizations. After all, a conversation always helps to understand someone else. But we're not going to use them as the organ of a particular population group. We're not gonna subsidise them. If you oppose integration, you shouldn't be with us. Our task is to ensure that such groups are integrated. However, I do recognise what Mr Roemer says. Last year, in my view, the SP and the VVD also tabled a joint motion in September on the links between the Turkish authorities and the organisations here and on what exactly is happening in that area. I recently saw a letter passing saying that the investigation has now begun. I would like to know from the cabinet why the request for that investigation was on a shelf until June. The investigation did not start until June. How can it be that, with all the developments that we are seeing in Turkey, because I very much agree with Mr Roemer, a motion of the VVD and the SP adopted by the Chamber, has just ended up in a drawer for three-quarters of a year, when the problems in Turkey are very serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u114	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u115	We are now taking together in two minutes three different things from cabinet policy that have frustrated integration in this country in recent times rather than that they have helped to improve it. Yet I hardly hear, even from the VVD, that we need to step up our efforts and make sure that people really get the chance to integrate properly. The integration policy of the last few years has, to say the least, fallen behind tremendously. We must finally make this a priority and we must talk about living together. We now take three examples and three times we see the same thing, namely that from Box K the integration is only obstructed. I hope that we can continue this cooperation and that the cabinet will come forward with a proper answer tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u116	I find this a little disappointing. I thought it was going the right way and we agreed. There may indeed be a point of criticism of the cabinet. Mr Roemer speaks of opposition, but I do not recognize that at all. We agreed, but now Mr Roemer is trying to make it a contradiction. We have worked well together on this issue in the past. Let's keep doing that, but don't try to make it a contradiction. The whole debate on integration falls and stands with contradictions. There are far too many contradictions. Let us not make a contradiction here. We agree on this point: the cabinet needs to act more firmly. It cannot be the case that investigations are not carried out or are postponed for three quarters of a year. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. But if things go well, that's also what happened. We don't have to sweep it under the carpet. That may be said in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u117	When it comes to freedom of education and freedom of religion, I always spring up. Now it's about religious freedom. I agree with Mr Zijlstra that religious freedom is never unlimited or unlimited. Religion is never meant to be a free pass for anything. I am holding my heart to a bill tabled by Mr Zijlstra. This is very similar to a bill that Mr Wilders has put forward in an earlier life. The criticism was that your church societies are making life miserable while you're aiming for something else, but we'll talk about that later. I started with the difference of opinion, but I hope we will grow to a point of agreement. That could be foreign financing from non-free countries. At that point, the VVD and the Christian Union have been working together for a while. Other groups have also tabled motions on this point. We encourage the cabinet to look at this every time, because it is a bone in the throat. How can it be that money from countries where there is no freedom at all? I call a country like Saudi Arabia, where you can't have a Bible and where you can't build a church going this way. Can we not introduce the principle of reciprocity and say: if there is no freedom in the country of origin, we should also restrict freedom, but if there is freedom, do you have all the freedom here? Wouldn't that be a good principle? Wouldn't that be a point where we can find each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u118	The intention of the bill is not to bully churches, but you need to be able to deal with organizations that abuse the title of religious society to do very different things. Then we are really not talking about a church in Nunspeet, because that does not happen there of course. For me, funding is also a dead end, as Mr Segers says. That is a valid point. There are countries where there is no freedom of religion, let alone other freedoms, that finance foundations and societies that you may wonder about. That gives me an unheimical feeling. I worked in the Middle East myself. The funny thing is that there is one church that stands in every country, the Norwegian Church. I don't know how they do it, but they're everywhere. For the rest, as a Christian, as a Jew or as a member of any other religious society, you do not have to try. How does it relate to our freedoms that funding should be sent here, whereas, in reverse, nothing is allowed there? I would like to look at that, but it has to be about the flow of funding. I see this reciprocity in the flow of finance. It must not be at the expense of our fundamental freedoms. I am quite prepared to have that looked at, and I would also like to ask the cabinet. I have the impression that Mr Segers will do the same in his speech. Can we use this instrument to tackle the financial flows? To be honest, I am now so done with it that I am going to take every hook at that point, as long as it falls within the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u119	Wherever that Norwegian Church has stood, it will not have been in Saudi Arabia, for no church should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u120	It's there, I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u121	That's special. That's news. At that last point we will see if we can move forward. I will certainly say something about that in my contribution. The bill is already in the Chamber, but there are concerns about Mr Wilders' proposal. These concerns have already been expressed and also concern the proposal of the VVD Group, but we will discuss them later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u122	Very good. I was just talking about the fact that solutions are rarely simple and rarely without spots. This turned out, for example, when a solution had to be found for the large stream of asylum seekers and migrants from the Middle East and Africa. Last fall, on Prince's Day, that power seemed out of control. Day in, day out, thousands of people from Turkey made the crossing in rickety boats. It seemed like there was no solution. It seemed impossible. The VVD's plan to do more shelter in the region was scorned. Yet the VVD and the PvdA found each other and the cabinet came up with a plan to make arrangements with Turkey to stop the power. We knew the only solution is to stop these people from getting into a boat at all. We knew that we had to make sure that those people did not risk their lives and would not come to Europe. It couldn't happen, and it wouldn't work out, said the blind people in this house, but we see now that the influx has greatly reduced. The last six months before the migration agreements with Turkey, there were 30,322 first asylum applications in the Netherlands. The first six months after the agreements with Turkey, there were 7,216 first asylum applications. That is a 76% drop, and there are still a lot of Albanians among them, who are not affected by these agreements. Look at Syrians' first asylum applications. The last six months before the agreements with Turkey, there were 13,632 first asylum applications from Syrians. The first six months after the appointments, there were 649 first asylum applications from Syrians. That's a 95% drop. That is a huge drop and that is a great result, because it shows that a problem that seemed insoluble seems to have become manageable. The cabinet, and in particular the Prime Minister, deserves a great compliment for this diplomatic venture. Obviously, Mr Klaver does not agree with that, because I see him at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u123	I can still imagine that Mr Zijlstra would be proud if the cabinet had managed to reduce the number of economic refugees, but Mr Zijlstra is very proud of the fact that we have received far less initial notifications from Syrian refugees. I can still imagine that Mr Zijlstra appreciates that these people are no longer getting into boats, but we also agreed that we should ensure that these refugees would come to Europe in a safe way. That was the other side of the coin. We all agreed last year that Syrians really are people fleeing from oarlogue and violence. Why is Mr Zijlstra so proud now that there are so much less of them coming here? That's a problem, isn't it? These people may no longer be dying on the Mediterranean, but in other places where they are trapped. Why are you proud of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u124	I indicated last year in the debate that there should always be a place for real refugees. However, that place does not always have to be in Europe. That's where GroenLinks and the VVD disagree. The VVD does not believe that we can solve all the problems of the world here in the Netherlands and in Europe. As far as the Syrians are concerned, we really need to see where they come from. People who come directly from Syria come from a war zone. Those are really refugees looking for security, losing that house and fireplace. For those people, we'll always have a place. However, most of the group that came here was safe in Turkey for one, two and sometimes three years. They had already built a life there and eventually came here primarily because, no matter how understandable, they saw better economic opportunities here, for themselves and for their children. I get that. If I'd been in their position, I'd probably make the same choice. However, they were no longer on the run at the time, in search of security. They were on the run at that time because of a better economic perspective. I say that we should not facilitate this, because we cannot deal with all this in Europe. I grant it to any individual person who makes that crossing, because it is for that person, for that child, for everyone in it, individually better to be here. We are a kind of paradise on earth with very great possibilities. But all these individuals, combined, ultimately create an unmanageable integration problem. That's what you have to limit, and that's why I'm happy with the arrangements made by the Cabinet. Even if they have spots, I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u125	In the case of Syrians, I find it very strange that Mr Zijlstra is so happy that there will be fewer. Look at the reception in the region, how many people are stuffed in refugee camps where the chances for the children who grow up there are much less. I still believe that being threatened not only has to do with war, but that that is also the case if you are hungry or if your children cannot develop. I'm not saying we have to take all those people from Syria here. That's impossible. We can take responsibility by doing a part. There is something I would like to hear from Mr Zijlstra. There are fewer refugees coming now. This means that we could do more for the people who fled war and violence and that more work could be done to bring Syrians to the Netherlands, which we have also made. We can see that these agreements are stalling and that there are not enough Syrians coming here. You and I, we're all lucky seekers. We're all looking for happiness. People who have fled war and violence and cannot live in their own country, we must also give them a place here in the Netherlands. I hope that Mr Zijlstra is prepared to further develop that part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u126	A brief response, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr Klaver says it so generally that my answer is no. I'm not gonna give all those people here that chance, no matter how understandable it is that they want it. That is impossible. We have an international responsibility, but I agree with that. We've also made agreements that people can come here on invitation. We also have a problem there, because the Turkish authorities are currently selecting anyone who might be eligible to come here by invitation. People, I say it disrespectfully with higher education and with good opportunities in our society, must not go away. People they want to get rid of are currently being queued for such a program. Of course, we should not be involved in such matters, because then we will have a sort of selective policy, and I would not want to abandon it as a liberal. That we have a responsibility in a broad sense: always, but with moderation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u128	We're focusing on Turkey now. However, we also have Greece, where 50 000 refugees are trapped on the mainland, which must also be given a place in Europe. We are also talking about the people in camps in Lebanon and Jordan. I hope that Mr Zijlstra will take a look at that too. What I find almost cynical is that there is a struggle about who gets the highly educated refugee. A fugitive is a fugitive. I would like to say that the most vulnerable people, families, children and the disabled, those who cannot survive independently in those camps, should be the first ones we bring here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u129	We have just made agreements about Greece in Europe and that is what the Netherlands stands for. That can be even better, I can confirm immediately. Moreover, they must first be eligible for real-location through the asylum procedure in Greece. That's a bit of a problem now. If you don't apply for asylum in Greece because you're afraid you're going to have to stay there, you're not going to be eligible for that relocation either. The point is... If you think I'm ready, that's fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u130	This debate has been going on a great many times. So I hope it'll be kept really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u131	What is the long-term sustainability of that deal with Erdogan, we will have to see. Lesbos is full and the situation there is almost inhumane. The Turks have closed the border with Syria, which means that even if you are being hunted by ISIS, you are simply stuck. But there are now.. we as Dutch society will have to face the facts.. people came here. Yesterday, I heard the King in the Throne Address on behalf of the Cabinet say that people must participate as soon as possible and that they can volunteer. Why can't they learn one Dutch from day one? Why don't we take care of that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u132	I think we've already arranged that on the day they get their status, for example Syrians, it's about literally day one, but let days two or three of them qualify for language classes and integration courses. It already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u133	Minister Schippers said we need to speed that up. Over the last few years, we have been working on getting people to learn the language faster, but also to get them to work. But the cabinet, and the VVD in front, then kicks the brakes. Just look at Amsterdam, where one in five Syrians can get to work very quickly. I wonder why the Dutch cabinet has mainly used last year to stop black and white from doing so rather than to facilitate the people who come here in a good way and to get them to participate quickly, and not only to do volunteering, but to learn the language, to participate in this society and to find work. In short, what we expect from everyone here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u134	This is a contradiction that does not exist in everyday practice. If a Syrian comes here and it is clear that he is a Syrian, he or she immediately gets a five-year status. If he or she has that status, he or she is immediately eligible for the entire pallet of facilities. However, there is also a group, such as Albanians, which we already know when they come in, that they are in fact without a chance. They are not refugees in the sense of the word'refugee', they are people who have come here and applied for asylum, but we know that they must not stay here. They have to go back. On this point, I believe that the cabinet is right to say that it is not wise to give them a first integration course, since everything is intended to bring them back as soon as possible. But when it comes to the people who get a status here, I agree with you immediately: get to work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u135	That point is clear. The Albanians are all a thorn in our eye, and we need to make sure that these people do not come here and we need to give them money again to go back. It's unnecessary and it's just pumping around. But the difference between a Syrian and an Albanian can be distinguished on day one. Mr Zijlstra says that the decision-making period is eight months, but the Secretary of State has already announced that it will be resumed. Why can't we immediately offer language lessons to the people we can feel on the clogs that they need to learn Dutch? That's all I care about. That when you have your status, you are eligible for all kinds of amenities, but it is about that precious time before that, in which people are playing thumbs and whatever we look at and think as a society: what are they doing here. It is also very important for the support base to do so from day one, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u136	Once again, Mr Asscher, the Minister for Integration, has made a very clear statement: from day one that they have a status, we are going to do this, we are going to do it strengthened. So we're already doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u137	But it takes them a long time to get a status. It's not eight months, if only, it takes a long time. I have been there and Mr Zijlstra will have been there. People just sit there. If you say to Dutch society: there are those people and we want them to participate, then step one, also for the support of the Dutch, is they to learn the language? The situation with the Albanians is clear, but Syrians are: learn the language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u138	And it happens to Syrians. With regard to groups where it is not clear whether they are refugees or groups where it is clear that they are not at all, the VVD says that investing is unwise. Invest in those people you think they can stay here for the next few years. That's a big difference. For many groups, it does not apply, for example, to the groups crossing from North Africa. There are a lot of people who can't stay here. Then you must bet on return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u139	I would like to talk about the root causes why more and more people are fleeing, especially to Western countries. Last year, the Chamber adopted a motion in which we called on the Cabinet to look at these root causes. It seems to have a religious cause, but the root cause is often a shortage of raw materials. According to international organisations, the war in Syria is actually a water war: there are shortages of water and food. That's how we see it elsewhere in the world. The cabinet has now acknowledged this, and it has also said that we should do something about it. The VVD did not vote in favour of that motion at the time. After a year's experience of the root causes of the refugee crisis, does the VVD believe that the government should pay much more attention to this and that this is an omission in the Throne speech when it comes to conflict management?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u140	I am very sorry, I apologize to Mrs Thieme, but I really have no idea what motion she is talking about. We serve a few hundred in here a week, and I've given up tracking them all. This will undoubtedly be very important, but my foreign spokesperson is also sitting with his hands up. You always have to look at the causes that drive people. After all, we're not gonna make it with just stopping people. You have to try to stop people from traveling. If that is what Mrs Thieme means, I do not know about the motion, then we shall soon agree. However, I do not know what the text of the motion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u141	That was a motion tabled last year during the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u142	There were a few hundred of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u143	This is typical of what we are talking about here during the General Political Reviews, with all these men here: about these kinds of short-sighted things such as how, once the refugee crisis has arisen, we can take the refugees here. The focus should be on how to prevent these refugees from coming here. It is incredibly embarrassing that the chairman of the VVD Group does not even remember having a debate here on how to tackle the root causes of the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u144	I confess, I'm a man, I can't deny that. I think I was just trying to find Mrs Thieme by saying that I do not know the motion, but if the point is that we have to keep an eye on the underlying causes of the fact that people are drifting away sometimes it is obvious because they are hitting each other's brains, but sometimes there are deeper causes, such as raw materials or the climate problem, which I agree with. We need to keep looking at that, sure. If that is what Mrs Thieme means, we are in favour of this. It's a disgrace, but I don't know the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u145	Then let's leave that for a minute. The motion is not known to the group chairman of the VVD, so let's talk about the content. If Mr Zijlstra agrees with me and with the Chamber, which has supported this motion by a majority, that we should look at the root causes, does the group chairman think that enough has been done to tackle, for example, this aggressive export policy, or the arms trade and the raw materials robbery in developing countries? Does the chairman of the VVD think that the cabinet has done enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u146	Take the raw material heist. I myself have been allowed to work in a number of these countries. I do recognize a number of things that Mrs Thieme says. Especially the Chinese are very good at this. Look at the way in which they are currently acting in the world and putting countries into their hands, just to attract raw materials from countries, especially in Africa. That is a very legitimate concern on the part of Mrs Thieme. We need to keep a close eye on that. We need to focus on that. We shouldn't just trust a country like China on its blue eyes. I hope that's what Mrs Thieme means. If she means otherwise, I'd love to hear it, but then there's a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u147	Finalizing, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u148	Anyone who mirrores himself to another, is softly mirrored. However, it is characteristic of the VVD that there is a reference to someone else who is guilty of this and that no consideration is given to the co-responsibility of the Netherlands for the fact that there is a great inequality in the world. A concrete example of this is TTIP and CETA, the free trade agreements currently under way. This creates a large free trade power between the United States and Europe. Developing countries do not benefit from this at all. In fact, they will have great disadvantages. Does the VVD not think that we should ensure that developing countries do not suffer from our free trade policy? This is also for our own sake, because otherwise these refugees will come to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u149	Let me first take away a factual inaccuracies. There is much call for developing countries to be the victims of treaties such as CETA and TTIP. There is a great deal of talk about this kind of free trade agreements anyway. The funny thing is that we once started a project in Europe about security, stability and prosperity, namely: the European Union. That was about free trade, about the idea of making the cake bigger together. These treaties are about that, too. I see that there is resistance to this and I hear all kinds of nonsense about it, but I am not going to have that discussion right now. The question is how to ensure that developing countries are helped. I am in favour of this, and I hope that Mrs Thieme will also be in favour of doing much less on all kinds of development cooperation projects in the margins. There are also very good in between; let that also be clear. Instead, however, you could consider whether, for example, you can remove obstacles in the field of agriculture. That is often much more useful to countries. So we can find each other on that, but you have to dare to take that other step. It's a little straight across. Maybe Mrs Thieme and I will then agree, although I am not very hopeful about that, given the way it has been so far. I will continue with my speech. So I gave the cabinet a plume. All the parties who said that you should actually throw that migration deal in the trash, and there are quite a few in this house, should also be honest about the consequences of that. That migration deal isn't without spots. There is a great deal to be said about the regime in Turkey. If you say that the deal has to be removed, I have just talked about the enormous impact of it; I have also mentioned the numbers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the consequence of that. I am glad that the cabinet has taken its responsibility on this point. We must continue with this approach, because the population in Africa and the Middle East will increase explosively in the coming decades. So we will also have to agree with other countries after Turkey on stopping and withdrawing migrants. A week and a half ago, Commissioner Frans Timmermans spoke very wisely about this. He argued at a lecture in Leiden that countries that do not want to participate in such agreements should be excluded from development cooperation. He indicated that, if that is not enough, such countries should be punished by the economic bloc of the European Union. I thought that was wise words from the social democratic angle. This is also something the VVD has been advocating for years. Now that the European Commission has apparently taken this bridge, I would like to hear from the cabinet how it intends to incorporate this into Dutch policy. We will have to do even more to deal with the problem of migration. We will have to abolish the right for asylum seekers from outside Europe to apply for asylum here in Europe. You may be invited, but the right to asylum must be removed. Every refugee has the right to receive shelter, I repeat: every refugee is entitled to receive shelter in Europe, but they do not all have the right to receive shelter in Europe. If treaties stand in the way, we have to deal with them and, if there is no other way, even cancel them. We continually adapt laws here and even continually adapt the Constitution, so why should we not be able to adapt treaties? There are, of course, parties who immediately put their heads in the lap and as an excuse make a comparison with the international legal order. However, this has nothing to do with the international legal order, but it has everything to do with preventing the further undermining of our society, of our prosperity and of our freedom. Because our free welfare state cannot survive if we allow everyone here. That's why doing nothing isn't an option. I am well aware that adapting international treaties is incredibly difficult. I don't need to be told that. Especially when you have to come out with 27 or more countries, it's very difficult. And yes, there are countless reasons why that is not going to work. But we are stuck, stuck in treaties that are concluded in another time and in another world. What seemed very good in the sixties and seventies now works against us regularly. We need to get out of that clamp. In the end, this is only about one thing: political will. It comes down to our willingness to take responsibility for our country against the rocks. No one can run away from that responsibility by hiding behind the international legal order, because that is not what this is about at all. We must dare to take this step, because we will need to get more control over who comes in here and in what numbers. We cannot cope with large numbers of migrants every year, because large groups are not integrating, but segregating. This is evident from the cold figures. 70% of Somalis are in assistance, over 60% of Iraqis are in assistance and almost 60% of Syrians are in assistance. Images often say even more than cold figures. This summer I saw images of Turkish flags on the Erasmus Bridge. There were thousands of Dutch of Turkish origins, many of whom were born and raised here. They took advantage of their right to demonstrate. Luckily, that's allowed in this country. However, we also saw that they swore allegiance to the authoritarian president of another country. They called Turkey their country and Erdogan their leader. I find that incomprehensible, unacceptable! After all, how badly integrated are you when you applaud an authoritarian leader and choose an unfree country over ours? And that on the bridge named after Desiderius Erasmus, the author of Praise of Foolhood. That book was a charge against too great a power for secular and especially ecclesiastical leaders. It dates back to 1511. Now, more than 500 years later, there are people on the bridge named after this man who swear allegiance to an authoritarian leader with strict religious traits. That's really crazy. This is what I'm saying to all those protesters. The Netherlands is certainly not perfect, but you are a Dutchman. You're him again, in this beautiful, free country. Stop clinging to your past. Focus on your future. Get your life together and stop with the crazy shit. Let me be clear that I understand very well that people sympathize with the land of their ancestors, but I do not understand that as a Dutchman you will continue a Turkish tribal struggle here. I also do not understand why children in Dutch schools are called "land traitors." And I certainly don't think it's normal for children to go to school under police supervision because their parents don't know how to behave. Through this behavior you use it for all those Turkish Dutch who are integrated, who do understand that their future is here and who do understand that freedoms should apply to everyone. It is clear that we must dare to fight for these freedoms more than ever. I've seen a lot of countries, but I don't know a country as free as ours. I'd like to keep it that way. I repeat Minister Schippers, because she is simply right, even though we often do not dare to say: our culture is indeed better, better for gays, for women, and certainly for Muslims who want to decide for themselves who they marry or who they want to divorce. Our culture is better for people who believe in another god or who no longer want to believe and also for people who really want to make something of their own life and want to be themselves. We need to be much more aware of the fact that people who came to the Netherlands in the centuries after Erasmus came here precisely because of that freedom. They came for our freedoms and thus they found automatic connection with the rest of society. The freedom they came for gave them the chance to live their faith and their lives without being persecuted. The prosperity that we have built up here in the context of that freedom makes us attractive to those who do not like our freedoms. They come for prosperity, for a better life for themselves and for their children. I understand that very well, but the prosperity for which they come can only exist thanks to that freedom. That freedom can only survive if we all defend her instead of undermining her. It is hopelessly naive to think that the integration of large groups with very different values will be successful and that they will naturally embrace and appreciate our freedoms. We will have to make it clear to everyone who comes here or is already here that if you want prosperity, you must also embrace freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mr Zijlstra says to those people who were on that bridge in Rotterdam: stop it; you are Dutch. I have just heard him say that, but isn't the problem that the image on that bridge showed that, despite their Dutch passports, they are not Dutch? They don't act like the Dutch. They are not loyal to the Netherlands. They are indeed loyal to that............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The problem is, what was on that bridge was Turks. The problem is that after all these years of failed integration, we brought in a fifth column of the Netherlands, as Pim Fortuyn called it. They're not Dutch. They have a Dutch passport, but we have never taught them that it is our country and that it is our culture. Does Mr Zijlstra agree with me that what was written there were Turks and not Dutch, except for that piece of paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u151	The people who stood there stood there with Turkish flags and with a Dutch passport. For me, everyone with a Dutch passport is Dutch. But let me be clear that the thrust of my plea is correct: if you stick to the past, keep putting your Turkish identity first, exudes that you are more involved with Turkey and Erdogan and swears allegiance to a leader of another country, you have not understood it at all. I repeat that to the Prime Minister: if that is your attitude, go to Turkey, but you can first take another step, you have a Dutch passport. I cannot imagine that if you live in a country like the Netherlands with all its freedoms and everything you can achieve here, you would choose a country like Turkey. If that's what you want, this is a free country, you should go that way, too, but if you don't go, embrace our freedoms and don't act like an idiot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u152	With all due respect, that's a very naive world view. Those Turks didn't come here yesterday. I think there are already three or four generations of Turks in the Netherlands and they were also on that bridge, from older people to the last generation. Three or four generations who have had a Dutch passport for three or four generations. That is precisely the wretched thing about them not being a Dutchman after all these generations. They're just Turks. This is my plea. If we let them in... And we let hundreds of thousands of Muslims in, we let a million Muslims into the Netherlands, you know, that culture that you now fortunately find less successful than our own culture, at least not as good as our own culture. You let them in and can be the only conclusion, if we are convinced that they are Turks and not Dutch, that we should not let them in anymore. You have let them in, the Labour Party, most of the parties here have let them in over the past decades and after three generations they are still Turks. They're not leaving, Mr. Zijlstra. They're not leaving, Mr. Rutte, even if you call a hundred times: fuck you. They're staying, so don't let them in. Close those borders, no Turk in them anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u153	These people are inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u154	I didn't let them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u155	Neither do I, nor any of those who sit here. Mr Wilders can imagine it as simplistic, but these people are inside and they have a Dutch passport. That is why I agree with what the Prime Minister said about a number of people there and what they exuded, but also some and not all of them, we should not put them all on the same footing as the people who said: Erdogan is my leader and Turkey is my country. To the people who find that, I say: fortunately this is a free country, go back, fine. But to all those people who do behave, who may have two passports, but who are here and want to make something of their lives, I say, don't go in those kinds of movements, make something of your life here because your future is here. Don't stick around in the past. But I keep coming back to it: they are here, Mr Wilders. I don't have a magic wand and I can't magic them away. So we must ensure that these people understand that their future lies here and that they do not linger in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u156	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u157	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Those are noncommittal talk: fuck off, fuck off, don't do it, go away. None of them do. They're here and after four generations they're just Turks. There's nothing Dutch about these people. Just Turks! You can do two things. First of all, you can make sure there's zero more coming in, no one. No visa-free travel, no nationality, no Turk to the Netherlands. My first question: will you do that? The second thing you can do, and you do not even want to do, and I am not even talking about those people on the bridge, is take away their passport from a Turk or anyone with a dual nationality who commits a crime in the Netherlands. Take his Turkish passport and send him back to Turkey. That may not apply to all those people on the bridge, but to that Turk who was dancing on that police car. So you can do two things: 1. borders closed and no Turk in and 2. if they are already here and they commit a crime, take them off the Dutch passport and drop them out. You don't want to do either, so you're a noncommittal talker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u158	A brief response, Mr Zijlstra. I note that this debate was extensive last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u159	Since when does that stop us in this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u160	No, but last week there was a lot of talk about Turkey and how it went. So I'd like to take a brief look at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u161	Mr Wilders rubs some things on me and I want to take them away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u162	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u163	Anyone who looked at those images on television and saw that sea of Turkish flags, perhaps with the exception of Mr Kuzu, but he came to see it with some disgust. I do, in any case, because I had exactly the question that Mr Wilders is asking, namely: what do these people want? Their future is in this country, isn't it? Why do you swear allegiance to Erdogan? Why do you prefer Turkey to the Netherlands? That's why I draw a line: if people really think that's true, I'm glad we're a free country. Then go back. That's fine. Then go back. But they have a Dutch passport and we can't just take it away. If people in this country commit a serious crime, this applies not only to Turks, but also to all people of dual nationality, and so it should be: rules in this country apply to all people........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that's what we're doing, not just with Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u164	Let it be clear that every resident of the Netherlands must comply with Dutch law. That means that threat, intimidation, etc. are not allowed. I do not want to have a discussion about this. Let me be clear about that. I would like to talk about Mr Zijlstra saying that he does not understand that a number of things are happening. I would like to explain this to him and show him this from a different perspective. Could one reason perhaps be that people feel displaced, that they have become socially weaved, that they have not been looked at for years, that they are dealing with discrimination in the labour market and that there are all kinds of problems at the moment? You can accuse me of getting into the victim role, because I always get that kind of reproach when I make these statements, but isn't the VVD in the denial role now that she says she doesn't understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u165	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u166	This is very easy and shows exactly what it lacks. Have no understanding and then talk tough talk in the sense that they have to leave, while there are already three generations who live in the Netherlands. These people want to build their future here, but they also constantly have to do with statements made by the gentleman on my left, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u167	I was asked if I denied that. My answer was, no, I didn't. That was the answer to the question asked, so Mr Kuzu should not pretend that I am giving a crazy answer. To all the people who live in this country, who appreciate and embrace our freedoms and who want to make something of their lives, I say: do it. And to people who say that on television, I say: don't stick in your past. Because if you do, you're not thinking about your future. And that's what I saw there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u168	That's a matter of past or present. It's a matter of identity. People have different identities. I note that is perhaps very hard - that, if there are people with a Turkish flag on the Erasmus Bridge, this is disgusting to Mr Zijlstra. But when there were hundreds of people in front of the House of Representatives demonstrating with Israeli flags, this was no problem. I didn't hear this kind of force language. So this is another sign of handling the double size. That is the foundation of the VVD's problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u169	I understand very well that when something like this happens in your ancestors' land, it evokes people's feelings. That makes sense, and there's nothing wrong with that. We have freedom of demonstration in this country. Fortunately, in this country, we do. But that doesn't mean you're gonna put Erdogan as your leader. Then you really didn't understand. Mr Kuzu may try to cover that up, but that is what is happening. I asked Mr Kuzu last week about that point and I am going to try it again. There were more things happening on that bridge. There were people with grey wolf marks. There were men of Hamas, and of Hezbollah, and of the Muslim Brotherhood. Does Mr Kuzu dare to have the greatness one week later to say that this type of organisation does not belong there because it sends out totally wrong signals? Do you have that greatness now, after a week's reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u170	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u171	Let me be clear about that. We have our own ideas about when we say or not say certain things. What I find disgusting is that, when I raise a fundamental problem here and actually show the void of the VVD, this is used to give all kinds of examples of things that do not matter at all. What matters here is that we are dealing with a fundamentally different social and world view than the short-sighted one that the VVD currently has. The Netherlands is no longer the Netherlands of the sixties and seventies, I say to Mr Zijlstra. The Netherlands is a very different country. Look at the big cities. Look at the way people contribute to this society day in, day out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u172	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u173	It was not a question but a comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u174	All people in this country who contribute to this society, of whatever origin, race, faith: I don't care if they belong to this country. That's what we are. But that is not what we are talking about here when we talk about this small group of people. There are a lot of people who are well integrated, who are doing fine in this country and who have built their future here. Mr Kuzu says that this country has changed. That's why I'm so keen on it. This country hasn't changed at all. If you walk on the street and look at the color of people or the appearance of people, you can see that the country may have changed in that sense. But I don't care, because I honestly don't care what the background of someone is, what race he is or what his faith is. However, I do not want the freedoms for which we stand and for which we have fought to change in this country. Mr Kuzu seems to suggest here that that should change. I hope he will refrain from doing so, because we are never going to distance ourselves from these freedoms of a democratically free Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u175	I was just asking Mr Zijlstra if he was prepared to do two things, because otherwise his statements were quite non-binding. What's the point of saying "fuck off" or "fuck off" if those who are told don't? The first question I asked was: are you prepared to ensure that no new Turks come to the Netherlands, so that the Netherlands remains the Netherlands? I didn't get an answer. My second question was: are you at least prepared to take away Dutch nationality from people of dual nationality who commit a crime? Mr Zijlstra said at the time: we are already doing so. That is a lie, because we only do it on the basis of the Terrorist Crimes Act, when it comes to terrorists. In the case of normal crimes, which are already bad enough, such as the use of violence, theft or threat, we do not do so. I'm thinking of the man who called Prime Minister Rutte "pleer" and threatened the journalist. Threat is a felony. That's not a terrorist crime. That's a felony. That man I would like to take away his Dutch passport and turn it off. I don't understand why Mr Zijlstra doesn't want to do that. I once again ask Mr Zijlstra, as group chairman of the VVD, if he is prepared to take away from people who commit normal crimes, who dance on cars, who threaten journalists, and who expel their Dutch passport to Turkey. Otherwise, it's really noncommittal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u176	I just said this applies to serious crimes. I did not suggest that this applies to all crimes. That is exactly where the border lies as far as I am concerned. Let that be clear, because that's where it starts. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap says that the person who wants to become a Dutchman must give up his old nationality. We will have to apply this principle much more strictly. Turkey could not do that in the past. Among other things, this had to do with family law and inheritance law. It's okay these days. I ask the government to uphold those demands. We've done that before. For example, Moroccans can't do that either. They can't lose their nationality, even if they'd love to. We sometimes have to take that into account, but we do draw that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I am tired of it. So the answer is no. Threat and destruction are both crimes. Mr Zijlstra says that the VVD of a person of dual nationality who threatens a journalist or who destroys a police car does not want to take away the Dutch passport and that the VVD does not want to expel such a person. That is what Mr Zijlstra says. Then don't keep all the stories around it. If he does, hopefully we'll get together, but he says he doesn't want to. And if you don't even want to take down the criminals and turn them off, you shouldn't be surprised if we lose our country. You sell cheap, empty talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u178	Mr Wilders has to look at the problems that really matter. People who swear allegiance on a bridge to a foreign, authoritarian, strict religious leader are of a very different order than a bunch of wheeldrivers in Zaanstad. I think we had that kind of wheeldrivers in Lelystad too, but they had a different nationality. You're not going to treat wheeldrivers in Zaanstad any differently than in other cities because they happen to be Turkish? I don't even know that. Were they all Turkish? I don't think so at all. Do you? Yes, you do. But I don't care. They were boys who weren't dealt with by local authority and completely derailed. You're gonna send the cops on those guys. You give them a restraining order, sometimes you lock them up preventively. So you have all kinds of resources for that and you just have to use them. This has nothing to do with the fact that they're Turkish. Something like this also happens in other cities, and there they are of Dutch, Frisian or Moroccan descent. They'll be wheeldrivers, and no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u179	Mr Zijlstra just suggested that everyone in this country should recognise freedoms. Let me be clear about this: I agree with every value and achievement that is written in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u180	Oh, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u181	You can be hilarious about that, but this is exactly the problem. If we are to raise a fundamental problem here, namely the problem of double standards, which in any case makes certain groups feel different from other groups, then I always see a laughing, slightly ridiculing attitude. Then I hear lyrics like: here it is different, here in the Netherlands it is possible. I'm glad you're following Zaanstad's example. I did not hear you use the same terms of strength when it came to Amersfoort; it was not in Lelystad. There were hundreds of partying kids throwing rocks at the police. Then I didn't hear a powerful language from the VVD. That's the double size; hypocrite like the net.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u182	With which we have powerful language again... We have also asked questions about this, so please do not speak to me of a double measure. I don't care what background or origin these wheeldrivers have. Wheeldrivers are wheeldrivers, and we have to deal with them everywhere, with all the resources we have. But you have to deal with them. If you want to de-escalate guys like this and sometimes girls, but more often guys like this every time, or start talking to them a little bit, the problem is that they're gonna think they can get away with anything. At some point that doesn't work anymore. At some point, you just have to say, "Here's the border." And if they go over that, you have to deal with them right away and make rules. If I raised my son in the way some mayors deal with local wheeldrivers, he wouldn't end up much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u183	A brief interruption, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u184	I shall be as brief as my colleagues, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u185	Like the colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u186	I agree with Mr Zijlstra: anyone who tries to justify what is happening in Turkey is totally wrong. It can't be. Like Mr Zijlstra, I believe that people should distance themselves from that. I also agreed with all the colleagues who fell on Mr Kuzu, who did not want to do so. What struck me last week was that the commotion wasn't that bad when the Prime Minister didn't want to condemn what Erdoğan is doing in almost the same terms. Mr Zijlstra did not go to the interrupting microphone either. The Prime Minister said: I do not know exactly, I find it difficult to assess this now, the Council of Europe must first investigate all those dismissed people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u187	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u188	That's a little double measure. If you are asking the people of your society, and rightly so, to distance themselves from what is happening in Turkey and to condemn it, then the Prime Minister must set an example and do so. But he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u189	I think he did. But let me be clear: I condemn that. If there is any doubt about that, I condemn it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u190	I did not actually ask this question to Mr Zijlstra. I know he's judging, and I'm happy about that. We all asked the Prime Minister this question: do you condemn what is happening in Turkey, with Erdoğan? He said: that is a bit tricky, that is complicated, I cannot exactly point out what is wrong; I am not happy with it, but the Council of Europe must examine it first. When Mr Kuzu said that it was 100,000 cases and he could not see into every individual case, this house was too small. When the Prime Minister said something like that, we almost all sat down. Will Mr Zijlstra now ask the Prime Minister whether he would also like to condemn what is happening in Turkey, rather than waiting for the Council of Europe to reach a judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u191	I didn't hear the Prime Minister say he found something else last week. There is now a contradiction that I do not think there is. I'm judging it. You should ask the Prime Minister again, but he was extremely clear last week. I think he has literally said: what is happening in Turkey cannot be done on any account. How much clearer do you want it to be? We were talking about the freedom we should embrace. Let us be honest: it is that freedom that makes us a country our country. That country where you can just be crazy yourself. Let's just say that. A country where men can walk on the street with arms. A country where nothing and no one is sacred, not even Mr Pechtold. That country where we get croquettes out of the wall; they can't imagine that anywhere else. That country where we sit on terraces for far too long. That country where we have our hamburgers baked at the neighborhood barbecue, at least as long as that neighborhood barbecue hasn't been banned by GroenLinks, because it could be fun in this country. Those 17 million Dutch won't let them play themselves apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u192	You must not provoke, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u193	I think that everyone in this Chamber can also imagine this: The Netherlands is also that country that can be annoyed at every once in a while. I mention all those rules that you think: oh, oh, why do you have to do that? But if you have been on holiday abroad for a while and then come back to this country, you also have the feeling: it is well arranged here. That delicious, raked, ordered land of 17 million stubborn, proud hard workers. Those 17 million Dutch won't let them play themselves apart. Not by parties who want to set up lower incomes against middle incomes. Not by parties who want to set up young against old or green people against people who like windmills a little less. Or Muslims against non-Muslims and highly educated against the low-educated. The fact that we are different does not mean that there is a division, as many would have us believe. There are no two kinds of people. There are only Dutch. We're very different, thankfully, but we're not going to let ourselves be caught in false contrasts. Anyone who is willing to support, defend and embrace our freedoms, as far as I am concerned, belongs to us, to "we," to the Netherlands, regardless of your race, your faith or your origin and whether your name is Fatima, Jan, Sarah or Mohammed. That freedom is under pressure. We have fought that freedom in hundreds of years, on foreign rulers, on domestic rulers and on ecclesiastical coercion. But if we're not careful, we can definitely lose her. I see at this moment that cartoonists, cabaretists, columnists, professors, artists, writers and even the pope have begun to self-censorship for fear of violence from the Islamic-extremistic angle. The examples are numerous. Cabaretians who feel free to insult, mock, mock God of Christians do not dare to joke about Allah or Muhammad. Islam-critical films or documentaries are suddenly no longer made, as are plays and operas. There are opinion makers who weigh their words on a gold bowl and avoid certain topics like the plague. They all do self-censorship. And they admit that, because they know that a joke about Allah or Muhammad can mean their death sentence. That is dangerous, because in a free democracy, freedom of expression is the counterpower against anyone who wants to restrict our freedom. At the moment, our freedom of expression is being sneaked away by fear of violence. However, it is not only threatened from that angle. It is also threatened by cultural relics who are trying to deny things. I call politicians and opinion makers who are in favour of moderation. But that's exactly the wrong reaction. In fact, that's asking for self-censorship. The problem will not disappear by itself, because the only correct response is to stand up for that freedom of expression. That freedom to say what you think is at the heart of our democracy and of our open society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u194	Mr. Buma wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u195	It was almost your turn, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u196	I'll be right there. Then I'll take my piece and I'll start right away. That's a lot easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u197	Well, I can do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u198	Agreed. Then let me ask my question. Mr Zijlstra's view is that freedom of expression is absolute. What strikes me is that he says in the same input about Turks who applaud Erdogan on the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam, that it is a disgrace and that they should go back to their own country. Mr Zijlstra, there are two possibilities. Or the freedom of speech is absolute, with all the fun and less fun. Or you acknowledge that in your heart you actually think there are limits to it. In fact, you acknowledge that you call "go away" when you say things you say may. Those two things don't add up. Or it's freedom of speech, and then you can stay here. Then you can't say, "Go away." Or the freedom of speech is not absolute. Then you can say, "Get out of here."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u199	Mr Van Haersma Buma makes a bit of a strange comparison here. I'm gonna go back to those people on the bridge. I state that if they think Erdogan is their leader and Turkey is their country, I say go back. If I were to say that we force them to go back because they think so, I would indeed be wrong. Immediately! But we don't. I didn't say that. I'll let them find it for me. All I'm saying to them is, if that's what you think, then draw your own conclusions. I just don't understand why that combination is being made. They can find that. I said freedom of demonstration, you can find it. But if that's what you think, go somewhere else and find your future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u200	You also say it here not only aimed at those Turks but also to show all the other Dutch people that you really say very tough things to those Turks. You're not just saying "if you want to, go back" but also "I'm going to use the words of the Prime Minister "fuck off to your own country." Those are the things you think. They're all not my words. You think that the things that were said on that bridge cannot be said and that if people do, they should go back to their own country. No! These people take advantage of the freedom that you sang to everyone less than five minutes ago. That's why your story's stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u201	I didn't say they shouldn't say that. All I've said is that if you think that's what you're gonna say, and I'm gonna let you think that's what I'm gonna do, because it's a free country you're gonna have to draw your conclusions from that. That's a big difference, but the CDA has a lot of trouble with that. I find it incomprehensible that parties such as the CDA and the PVV actually want to restrict freedom of expression. I say to Mr Wilders: that is what happens when you restrict or even prohibit the freedom of religion of certain groups. That's restricting freedom of speech. I say to Mr Van Haersma Buma: if you want to introduce a thought police, you limit freedom of speech. I say to Mr Van Haersma Buma: this Prime Minister does not allow cabaretists to be prosecuted for taking the Royal House apart, and this Minister of Justice does not allow a cartoonist to leave his bed with an arrest team. My party will never introduce Sharia if a majority would want it. My party will never introduce a thought police. Those are all proposals from the CDA. Stop talking about freedom of speech. Your party doesn't stand for that. It cannot be that the long toes of people who feel offended will determine what is or is not allowed in this country. When the standards here are set by people who feel offended, everything falls silent and there is no open debate anymore. We should not prolong the existing legislation in this area, because at some point we will also ban the short skirt because people find it offensive, or we will ban drinking alcohol because some find it offensive, or we will ban wearing a bikini on the beach, which is as nonsense as banning the peasant kini. Our freedoms are not a choice menu. They are not available à la carte. The freedom of the gay, the Jew, the Muslim, the woman, the freedom for all, is one and indivisible. You can't claim that freedom without giving her another one. You have the freedom to believe, but you cannot abuse that freedom to deny her another, to threaten apostates, to respond to criticism by force or to keep women under it. Such behaviour may fit in Saudi Arabia, but not in the free and liberal Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u202	Can Mr Zijlstra respond to the message of July 14, 2016, which said that a man will be sentenced to 30 days' imprisonment for insulting the king? Mind you, we're talking about the Netherlands here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u203	Yeah, I can respond to that. That is what we have already done, because we do not think that this is the time anymore. D66 has tabled an initiative proposal and we will support it. It's not like this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u204	I note that there is a bill in the making that the VVD is most likely to vote for. While something is still criminal in the Netherlands and people go to prison for 30 days, we have a lifted finger to another country that does it in a different way. I think everyone's free to do whatever they want. Here's what I'm seeing. I hear power terms from the VVD. I hear the Prime Minister shouting "pleasure." He also shouts: Fight in this society. I hear Mr Zijlstra shouting: leave if you don't like it here. These are all signs of the condemnation, the brutality and the hardening of the debate. Unfortunately, the VVD too often participates in the stream of Wilders and that is harmful for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u205	I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u206	I hear a hymn of freedom and a hymn of the room for differences. I can go along with that to a large extent. An important freedom that I would like to emphasise is the freedom of education. I wonder what the VVD's like on the other side. I also put a question to Mr Roemer. In fact, initiatives are being taken by the SP Group to restrict this freedom. Where's the VVD? Is she in the camp-Roemer, the camp-SP, or in the camp of freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u207	I'm in the VVD camp. It believes that the freedom to set up a school itself is a great asset. We stand for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u208	That's a clear answer. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u209	Finally. When this cabinet took office, the Netherlands was in a deep economic crisis. I see Mr Van der Staaij standing at the interrupting microphone. Was I unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u210	No, Mr Van der Staaij was running a little too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u211	No, Mr. Chairman, I responded to the words "finally." I was a little afraid that there was a very nice bouncer and that I had to breach that with another question about a safety issue. I thought Mr Zijlstra might come back to that. In order to defend our fine freedoms, we also need a good military force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u212	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u213	I have heard before that Mr Zijlstra also believes in miracles, but he is not counting on a miraculous multiplication of defence expenditure. How's that going in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u214	The cabinet has again released a few hundred million euros extra for the armed forces. The VVD is pleased with this for this year, but let it be clear that more investment in Defence will be needed in the future. The VVD's electoral programme is not yet complete, but I trust that it will be clear that we are releasing extra money for the Defence Department. That plan will be financially substantiated, unlike the SP's care plan. Our security is a prerequisite for our freedom. Without security, there is no freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u215	Sure. We've only heard before that the VVD said: we're going to invest or we're going to surrender. Indeed, we must do a great deal to fulfil our NATO commitments. It's about 2% of gross domestic product, of what we make with each other. At what rate do Mr Zijlstra and the VVD intend to meet this 2% standard, independently of the agreements in the cabinet? Does Mr Zijlstra realize that if we continue at this rate, we will not be there in a hundred years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u216	Well, we're gonna be okay in a hundred years, but that's way too slow for me. As far as the VVD is concerned, it will go in steps greater than a few hundred million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u217	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u218	We did the math. Even after 100 years, you only reach 0.7%, if you count the growth. That aside, it does mean that indeed much bigger jumps are needed. Mr Zijlstra rightly called on the SP to provide clarity. Can the VVD clarify the amount needed in the next cabinet period to really make a big leap? Or can Mr Zijlstra indicate I am kindly offering him a menu of choice how many years do we take to reach that 2%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u219	I always have to be a little careful with these questions, because our election programme is not yet ready and it still has to be done by the Members. It must be done in a democratic party. That does not affect Mr Wilders, but it really goes to the Members of this House. Let me give you a hint of the veil: as far as we are concerned, it is no longer going in steps of hundreds of millions, as we have now been able to do, but in steps with a zero extra behind it, so billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u220	You were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u221	I am simply going to finish again, because Mr Van der Staaij did come through. When this cabinet took office, we were in a deep economic crisis and in a political...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u222	That billion for that army, what are you gonna pay for that? I thought I'd join you in the bookkeeping. Then what are you gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u223	You'll see that properly through the CPB in our election program. I can reassure Mrs Thieme: if that is the case, she will be able to give her full support. However, I do not present any great plans here, but only answer Mr Van der Staaij's question. If I wanted to announce big new money here, I would have supported it. It would have ordained other parties if they had.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u224	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u225	When I join this cabinet I try to finish for the third time, who knows, this time the Netherlands was in a deep crisis. In a politically very difficult situation, the VVD and the PvdA, together with other constructive parties, D66, ChristenUnion, SGP have taken responsibility for governing our country. This was done in many areas. I call the housing agreement, the healthcare agreement, the autumn agreement. You'd better ask what we didn't agree on. With GroenLinks one came about the study advance. My thanks and appreciation for that, because like the VVD and the PvdA, these parties understood that Dutch people expect a sense of responsibility from politicians. Despite great differences, these parties assumed their responsibilities. Other parties we already knew as runaways, or we get to know as runaways. Now, four years later, we've put things in order. Our economy is growing again. There is reason to be optimistic about the future. There is reason to trust that more and more people will feel the recovery themselves in their wallet, through a new job, through even better care. We will also continue to come up with solutions to the new problems and concerns. We have done so in recent years, and we will continue to do so in the time that remains until the elections. We want to keep doing it afterwards, because all those sober, proud and self-conscious Dutch people deserve to go through with it, to leave the pessimism behind us and to show everyone that this country is the most beautiful and the most free country in the world. Mr Pechtold cannot disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u226	No, I don't have any interruptions on that either. I thought you should be able to finish quietly, especially the compliments. Where Mr Zijlstra has been on the Erasmus Bridge for quite some time, I would have hoped that today we would also talk about something very topical in these General Political Reviews, namely the almost 1 millionzzp'ers. I do not think that the cabinet can sit on its hands in this respect. We now have that law, the new law. The old one didn't quite work, with the VAR (statement of employment relationship). We now have the DBA (deregulation assessment of employment relationships). We have talked about this a few times, including in Question Time. I feel that Mr Zijlstra and I agree on this. There are model contracts on the shelf, there are threats of fines and at the moment clients simply don't give work tozzp'ers because they are like death that they are immediately seen as employees. It's not working. We agree on that. We can stand very strongly against each other as opposition and coalition, but I think we should work together and say to the Secretary of State: suspend it. Does that mean that today no fines, take away that fear from the entrepreneurs and leave no fuss about it on the shelf until we have made up something else? Let me quote Mr Zijlstra himself back to the VAR, then something else. Not right now, the economy is slowing down for those nearly a million people who hold their own pants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u227	We do not disagree on this. Things aren't going well. Last week I had a visit with the director of the HEMA, who explained that they are now about to go to a payroll company for their small self-employed because they do not get it settled with the Tax Office. That's just not good. I'm not from the department of let's just throw that law in the trash right now. Well, then we're back to square one. It must be clear that as long as this does not work in a good way, those entrepreneurs should not be in a position to be fined. As I said earlier on an entrepreneurial activity, I believe that the Secretary of State has responded neatly to this in a letter to the effect that no fines should now be imposed on those for whom there is uncertainty and uncertainty. We really need to clarify in the coming months whether this DBA proposal is going to be smoothed out and work well. If we don't get this thing going, I agree with Mr Pechtold and that law doesn't do what it's meant to do, you just have to withdraw it. Let's get back to the VAR. However, I would just like to take one step less. No fines, even. If it doesn't work back to the VAR, too. To do it today, however, is just too rough for me. You'll get a lot of uncertainty again. I'm gonna give the Secretary of State a little more time to pull the raft. I think he put it exactly like that in the letter, and I thought that was very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u228	We're in agreement. Not by one law or another, because that's how we organize it here. Those entrepreneurs and thosezzp'ers simply want to be present at the moment. I think that the letter on this is too unclear... very clearly hear that it is not a fine if there is currently uncertainty. So, as a Chamber, we ask the cabinet not to let entrepreneurs with good intentions hang fines over their heads. I see a thumb up from the Secretary of State. Two weeks ago, it was another finger. I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u229	We're just gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Zijlstra. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma, who will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u231	Mr. Chairman. A little over 200 years ago, in 1831, the young Frenchman Alexis de Tocqueville traveled through the country of the future: the United States of America. Coming back, he wrote down what he'd seen. His book On Democracy in America was acclaimed at waves, but also forgotten and wronged at times. He provided advanced individualization, in which, as he said, people like strangers are opposed to the fate of others. He continued, I quote: His children and his friends form all mankind for him; as for the rest of his fellow citizens, he stands beside them, but does not see them; he touches them, but does not feel them; he exists only in and for himself and if he already has family, one can at least say that he has no country anymore. That was 200 years ago. He predicted then, after he had been to America, the advent of a oppressive government bureaucracy. I quote again: Above them those citizens are towering an immense protective force which is the only one in charge of caring for their enjoyments and overseeing their fate; he covers her with a network of small, complicated, minute and uniform rules, which the most original minds and the strongest souls cannot get through to transcend the masses; he does not break the will, but twists it and leads it; he rarely forces people to do anything, but resists them acting continuously. The world we see around us today is frighteningly close to the doom that De Tocqueville described 200 years ago: a shattering individualism on the one hand and a great suffocating government bureaucracy on the other. The Tocqueville feared the lack of a binding moral order. He saw it in the first place in the Christian tradition. The Jewish-Christian foundations of our values are still the same. A society without values, without standards, without traditions becomes uncertain and weakened, especially when the threats are great and politics does not seem to have an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u232	It is wonderful that Mr Buma starts quoting De Tocqueville. Did he also get what De Tocqueville said about Islam and the Koran?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u233	Sure, 'cause I know that book. But if we're being very honest, that's not at the heart of what's been put in there. The core is in two major observations of him for the future of democracy. But of course I've read that part, too. It is also a good thing that Mr Wilders has done the same, because then he has seen the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u234	Sure. The Tocqueville visited Algeria after his visit to the United States. That's also described. He even describes in detail Suras 8 and 9 from the Qur'an. He says, in my own words, that what he has seen there is the intolerance, the submissiveness to Muhammad and the fact that the Quranic freshs, as he called it, never belonged to a free country at that time. At that time, he was actually the greatest advocate for countering Islamization. Did Mr Buma get that, too, and does he want to learn his lessons from it? Those were very harsh words, which you were about to go to court for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u235	That last bridge is going too fast, because that word 'islamisation', as Mr Wilders calls it, was not a reality at the time. But these kinds of thoughts are also later in the work of for example Kuyper. There has been a very nice television series, Kuyper along the Mediterranean. That is why I say that every religion is free, but the country we have, with its freedoms, its rights and its duties, is based on Jewish-Christian values. Let us be proud of that and let us keep it above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u236	We don't have to make the differences bigger here than they are. I agree with Mr Buma. All I'm saying is that De Tocqueville warned and said, "Beware, if you grow Islam in a free country, it's at the expense of your freedom."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u237	The latter is a slight distortion, but the fact is that the freedoms we have built up in the West, and freedom, I continue to say, in conjunction with duties, come in a straight line from a very long past. Religion is also free, but on the basis of the values we have. That is the big difference with those who say freedom is the only thing. No, freedom based on the values we have. That's what De Tocqueville teaches us. So I am nudging what Mr Wilders is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u238	I always find it as wonderful as colleagues talking about the Jewish-Christian tradition on which our beautiful country is built. What does Mr Zijlstra mean by that? What values is he talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u239	Whether Mr Zijlstra can say that, I do not know, but I hope so. It's a very fair question. I am always surprised when the word "Jewish-Christian tradition" is used without explanation. I think it is essential to do so. I'll get back to you on that. It is not a single sentence, it is a number of concepts which, in my opinion, are inextricably linked to the tradition we have. Very important in that, to name but a few, is the respect, the care for each other: you not only live for yourself, you do it for a community, a society. I shall come back to that a little more in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u240	Forgive me for calling you Mr Zijlstra, but Mr Zijlstra sometimes uses the same texts. "Jewish-Christian tradition" pretends to be a direct line between Erasmus and the freedoms we now know in this country. In 1995, Bolkestein voted against a motion calling for gay marriage to be possible. In 2002, it was the CDA that voted against gay marriage. Now a party like the CDA, but also the VVD, says that gay marriage belongs to the Netherlands. I agree. That's not a straight line since Erasmus. We had to fight that, in 2002, when the CDA voted against. Hence my question: what does the Jewish-Christian tradition mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u241	Over time, freedoms are experienced differently in society. It always is, in this day and age. That change, which the CDA supports, like a large part of society, is a change in time. Someone who took the lead in that is Boris Dittrich of D66. I have to say that sometimes people forget that before that we had Minister Hirsch Ballin, who was the first in the world to introduce the registered partnership. So what "the CDA didn't lead the way"? The next step towards civil marriage for homosexuals was made thanks to Boris Dittrich, but let's not forget that Minister Hirsch Ballin the CDA previously came up with his own report before saying: couples of equal gender deserve to marry each other. That's a change. I don't think any party here would have done that 80 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u242	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u243	This is exactly the point I want to make: freedom is constantly in motion and freedom must be fought, not only then but also now. We'll continue that fight. Let's not pretend it's a straight line in history. Ultimately, this kind of fundamental freedoms that we are celebrating today do not come from a Jewish-Christian tradition at all. We owe them to an emancipation movement in the 1960s that opposed this tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u244	Let me come back to this. There is no need to go into this at all. A great deal has changed in the 1960s, and I would add that much has not been for the better either. Think of the extreme individualism we've been given. This was also the case in the 1960s. So every development has its good and its bad side. I will come back to this and you may reflect on that again. By the way, who am I to tell you that? Only the chairman can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u246	I indicated that the threats in our society are great and that this is certainly a problem if politics does not seem to have an answer to them. We see around us, not only in the Netherlands but throughout the Western world, that the democratic system is stalling. In recent years, we have also seen it happen around us: the banking crisis, the debt crisis, the euro crisis, the Greek crisis, the refugee crisis. We are controlled by the threat of terror. There is chaos at the borders of Europe. The international agenda is currently determined by countries such as Russia and Turkey, not by the free Western world. It is governed by leaders who use democracy as a façade beyond which the law of the strongest prevails. The Western world, the world in which we live, has no answer. The EU is mainly dealing with itself, the British are working on the Brexit, and in America, the country where De Tocqueville went 200 years ago, there are elections, where the main question is: which one is the least hated presidential candidate? What about the Netherlands? Does the Netherlands withdraw from this disarray? The answer is no. 70% of Dutch people are pessimistic about the future. Confidence in politics is low. We feel that the generation after us might get it less than the present generation. Older people see their pensions evaporate. Young people can only study with a huge debt. More and more workers are forced into flex jobs. Once upon a time the Netherlands sang the multicultural society, but the third generation of immigrants often seems more focused on the land of their grandparents than on their own and their children. President Erdogan has more to say among Turkish Dutch people than we do. There are click lines set up in Ankara. Turkish Dutch report against other Turkish Dutchmen in Turkey. Integration will never succeed if people who live here are with their heads and hearts in Turkey. The problem of values in our democracy has more faces. Think of the directors in the care and other sectors who want to enrich themselves, who do not think about their responsibilities and who invent shady financial constructions to get better of themselves. Think of the treitervloggers in Zaandam, who harass the police and deliberately make life impossible for other residents. The Netherlands has an identity crisis and is afraid; colleagues Samsom and Pechtold also noted this at the beginning of this parliamentary year at the Machiavelli Foundation. They were right about that, but they added something to it. They said that there are no political solutions to this. The first is true, but the second is the greatest political misconception of our time. After all, politics is about the question of what is good and what is evil, and about how you can reconnect in a split society. Our country has lost the connection and it needs to be restored. 200 years ago, Alexis de Tocqueville saw this brilliant individualism coming. The answer of that time is today's answer. It's about rediscovering the values that our society holds. Those values are thousands of years old and come from the Jewish-Christian tradition. Not the "I" should be central, but a guiding principle in society must be that you have an eye for another. There must be intrinsic equivalence of people. This means respect for each other as a starting point, even when it comes to differences. It does not mean rights without duties or freedoms without responsibilities. Bringing such a thing back into this modern society is not self-evident. We're gonna have to work for that, and we can. This can be done, for example, by providing good examples, but there is more. In the Netherlands, for example, we could set up a military service for all young people, so that they realise that the Netherlands is not only a country of rights, but also a country of duties. Life in this country is not only taking; it is also giving back. You can ask people to pay back for the freedoms they have. I would also add that some young people could use some re-education. Think of the insulting and the harassing that we see around us. It is also very real when people with welfare benefits pay in return. I saw in Rotterdam Crooswijk how beautiful that can be. Municipalities are allowed to do that, but how many municipalities are doing it now? I'd like to know about the Prime Minister. We must also realise that freedom of expression has a limit in a world of rights and obligations. In fact, it's time we started drawing that line a little more precisely. There's no right to be harassed. There's no right to offend. A middle finger to a cop should be punished. Glorification of violence, as in France, should be punishable. Organisations that abuse democracy to overthrow it should be banned, as in Germany, because that is not normal and threatens our democracy. Why is the cabinet still not willing to do this? Democracy requires defense. Freedoms cannot be without responsibilities. Rights do not exist without duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u247	I find it difficult for the leader of the CDA, the largest Christian party in parliament, not only to demand the freedom of religion in this country, but also to be given the freedom of education, on Sunday, in every way possible in life, because freedom is there, but at the same time it is so easily linked to another freedom, namely freedom of expression. In an interview he recently said: it is VVD and D66 who explain freedom of speech so unlimited that you get what is happening in Zaanstad. Mr Buma will have to explain that. Where did that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u248	Mr Zijlstra was just proud of it when he said that freedom of expression is absolute, but it is not absolute. Freedom of religion is not absolute either. It has to be within the law. Church societies must also operate within the law. That's what I'm of, because a church society can't just do all the things that overthrow our democracy. Never. In short, all rights are accompanied by responsibilities. Regardless of whether you want freedom of religion or freedom of speech, that is a responsibility. When we remind people of the Constitution, we remind them of the freedoms in it. They're in there, but it's about what responsibilities you use them with. That's forgotten, and it has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u249	Of course, there are fundamental rights that barn and sometimes even collide. That's why we have such a versatile country. Look at the first best talk show. It's all about it all day. I think that's a value of this country. After all, that also means that we continue to sharpen fundamental rights together, that we continue to look at what they mean and what duties they entail. But how can you say that parties that give these freedoms should then be brought into relation with the bullying of a bunch of deranged idiots who go dancing on a car? That doesn't have anything to do with freedom of speech, does it? That doesn't have anything to do with fundamental rights, does it? That's just the Code of Criminal Law!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u250	Look at what the Prime Minister said recently. He said, "If someone else says "fuck off," I say "fuck off." Of course, that's nothing. In fact, that is formal freedom of expression, but in this case the whole of the Netherlands thinks: is there still a responsibility with that man for his words? Mr Pechtold calls for freedom of expression to be allowed to say what we want because we want to promote democracy. But we see that our democracy is under real pressure and that it is no longer as self-evident as we sometimes thought. In the whole concept we have of the freedoms that we all maintain, two things are important. First of all, it is about where these freedoms come from and what they mean. Secondly, it is about how we fill it out in person. They come from a world that has arisen over time with responsibilities for society as a whole, so not just the me, and must be used in a way that does not harm another. When a prime minister "fuck off," "fuck off," "fuck off," "fuck off," or I know what to say, that's not just freedom of speech. Then people think: the Prime Minister says this. I want either actions to come or not to say it. That's my biggest assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u251	If the Prime Minister says so, it's either bad language or bad education or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u252	No, it's much more!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u253	Here's what I'm talking about. The representative of the CDA still attaches great importance to the ban on blasphemy, a little God is above insults, hear, and to a completely obsolete article as a desecration of majesty, for which 30 days is given. Fortunately, we are now going to deal with that article as well. At the same time, he connects a miscarriage as a miscarriage of young people, it is a miscarriage; we agree on that about freedom of expression. I just can't follow that thought twist. For the third time now, I ask why you accuse parties who give you those freedoms and protect them, even though they may not have anything to do with them, that they are inciting you to harass them by saying that there is freedom of expression. I just want to know about you. That's not about the constitutional thing. That's just about the Code of Criminal Law, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u254	No, it's not. Those taunting boys... A few years ago, a verdict was made on someone who had a middle finger on a police officer. What was his claim? Freedom of speech. Do you know what the judge said? Right you are! That's the opposite in appeal. That's a good thing! You're laughing at it, but apparently that border has shifted so far that we're starting to think about freedom of speech: policeman, you can't touch me, because I can say that. That's what the Turkish boys say. Do you know what I'm saying? Then I say, don't say that. Then I'm not saying, I don't agree with you, but I'm giving you the right to do that. No, you can't insult a policeman, you can't harass him, you can't blackmail him, because he stands for the authority of our democracy. I therefore believe that action should be possible. If that is a restriction on freedom of expression, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u255	Mr Buma himself reveals that his own reasoning is not correct, because he indicates that the judge, after referring to freedom of expression in the first instance, said something else. Our own system is correcting itself. Our own system, which we now regard as so valuable, is already intervening. I therefore ask Mr Buma once again what he blames for the factions who are giving all the space to his party and the people who support it. And why the hell is he going crazy and then saying, "Everyone back on duty?" Then he doesn't know how long it takes, who it takes and what it costs us all as a society. That is what I am curious about: has Mr Buma worked out that plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u256	These were a lot of questions at the same time. I shall start with the first question, because I can answer that. Mr. Pechtold himself mentioned blasphemy, but then also talked about majesty desecration. We must get rid of this crime, but what signal do we send as a political signal when we say that insulting our king, which is a criminal offence in all countries, is allowed in this country? What a party! No, that's not a party, because it's about values that are dear to us. Don't touch that. I think the first Muslim to use that is said by everyone here: how dare you, go back to your own country. I'm saying that for everyone, we don't do majesty desecration. That's always been a criminal offence. Why? Not because King Willem-Alexander doesn't deserve it as a human being, but because we have symbols that we attach to in this country. I'm saying some symbols are just a little bit more valuable than other things. That is why I find it ridiculous, bizarre and stupid that Mr Pechtold wants to abolish that article, just like 'by the grace of God' and I know what he thinks should go away. If you want a little respect, decency and values in this country, you're really holding on to some of the things we've made in the past few centuries. You don't knock them all over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u257	Then a lot of issues about children's rights and the relationship between men and women had never changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u258	You really need to wrap up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u259	I am very pleased that our democracy is evolving and apparently so resilient that we no longer have to put into a law that a symbol like the majesty is treated differently as an ambulance brother or a policeman. If we insult them, it's as bad as insulting the majesty or your neighbor. That's how far we've evolved. What you want, Mr Buma, is back in time. You want a workability. You're trying to force something. Instead of raising people, citizens and young people in these values, you want to limit rights and make them realise what they are worth precisely through that discussion and through the clash of fundamental rights. You don't do that through repression. You do that through education, and you do that through education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u260	I must honestly say that I have yet to come across the education which first tells the state administration that insulting the king is no longer a criminal offence, and then says: we do not mean that, it is not allowed. Let's give a bit of an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u261	I hear Mr Van Haersma Buma saying that freedom of religion is not absolute. I got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u262	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u263	The law can impose restrictions on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u264	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u265	Now we have a law that says it's forbidden to slaughter animals unsaturated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u266	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u267	Why, for the sake of religious traditions, should the unsedated slaughter go on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u268	I can say to Mrs Thieme that this can only be done, because that has changed tremendously, if there are protocols, if there are veterinarians and if there are conditions, I know what conditions. This has already put enormous pressure on a number of religions, such as the Jewish religion. We did that, and the CDA supported that, but I think it's quite something that we said with the tradition we have here, knowing what Judaism has been doing around the world, that if you want to do it, you're doing it very differently than you've always done it. With freedom of religion, there are always uses that someone else doesn't understand. I understand. Those customs are: the baptism, the circumcision, the ritual slaughter. We're gonna change them so they can stay that way. I think it is extremely important that this country does not say that what the Jews have always had in 5,000 years is going to be abolished in 2016, while we have an opportunity to do it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u269	The animals, which are about 2 million a year, are still slaughtered unsedated, with some suffering of more than a few minutes. That does not change with any protocol about the sharpness of a knife or the presence of a veterinarian. My question is basically about the freedom of religion, which can therefore be restricted by legal provisions that we know. Why does Mr Van Haersma Buma want to hold coûte que coûte to symbols such as the criminalisation of majesty desecration? Why are symbols more important to Mr Van Haersma Buma than the flagrant animal suffering associated with unsedated slaughter? I think it's a very strange way to reason. It's double-size. Freedom of religion ends where human suffering or animal suffering begins. It can only be that Mr Van Haersma Buma agrees with me, whether it is kosher slaughter or halal slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u270	I really think that in the Netherlands we have already reduced the freedom of religion by these rules, and rightly so. It's not like we don't. We did. The difference with Mrs Thieme is that she says: ritual slaughter must not, by definition, be allowed. When you say that, I think you should be honest about making the existence of those people in the Netherlands almost impossible. Hardly any country in the world does this. We have a world community of faith. So I'm saying here that I really think you can limit religious freedom, just like all freedoms. The same goes for the ritual slaughter. But if we can do it properly, and we can do it properly, then Mrs Thieme feels that it is still not possible. I believe that we in the Netherlands have found a very good solution for a very difficult ethical discussion, or at least a very good one. I can't make it prettier for Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u271	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u272	For a hundred years we have had a law banning the slaughter of an animal unsaturated because it is demonstrably accompanied by additional animal suffering. Nothing has changed, not even today. If Mr Van Haersma Buma is consistent with his story about the freedoms we know here and the fundamental rights we must respect, then he must also say that the belief of a butcher should not matter to the animal and that all animals should be slaughtered in the same way, namely according to the law: sedated, not unsedated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u273	That's not what I'm saying. Mrs Thieme is a Party for the Animals for a reason. I'm from a party that's also looking at certain consequences for living together. My position is that what we are doing in the Netherlands goes beyond what is being done in almost any other country. Again, I support this, despite the fact that the Jewish community, for example, is already very unhappy with it. However, as chairman of a party which is in favour of religious freedom, I say that this is possible. But we have to do it in such a way that we can live together a little bit. The solution we have now chosen is a very neat one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u274	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u275	Here's what I'm gonna do. I had asked the cabinet a question about banning organisations that abuse democracy. Then I say that it is more necessary than ever to build bridges. "Smacking Bridges" was once the promise of this cabinet. Four years on, we have to ask ourselves whether that has worked. Is what was broken healed? Is what we have now the country we want to pass on? The honest answer is no. Above all, we see increasing gaps: between higher and lower educated people, between the elderly and young people, between the low-chance and the low-chance, between the immigrant and the indigenous, between flex and solid. Society is crumbling and the future is uncertain. In 2013, after that "Smack Bridges," the cabinet launched the participatory society. That was the response of this cabinet to a government that had reached its limits and to individualism, which had become solitude for many people. It was the year of the big increases and the cuts. We are now three years ahead, and that whole word 'participant society', apart from somewhere in a footnote, is barely reflected in the budget documents. In short, this whole concept has never been more than what the critics said at the time, namely a bummer for austerity. The cabinet didn't build bridges. It didn't want a participatory society at all. Het ran the Netherlands as an e.g. with The Hague as head office. Today's budget mainly reads as one long letter of apology. Apologies for what the cabinet has termed "necessary" over the past four years; it is now being reversed as undesirable austerity. Sorry about the cuts in health care. Sorry about the cuts on the police. Sorry about the defense cuts. Care has been taken too quickly and too hard. That has led to great uncertainty. Carers have become overburdened and home care is drastically limited in a very short time. The chaotic rapid introduction of decentralisation has put great pressure on the elderly and chronically ill. I have a question for the cabinet. Apparently, it sees that extra money is needed, as the CDA said last year. So it's not that strange that we said that. Does the cabinet also see that it has apparently been too much and too fast? 'Cause why else would you turn it back? And what happens to the money that comes this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u276	I have two questions for Mr Buma. My first question is: is it not true that the CDA, in my view with the Kunduz agreement, has also cut back on care for the elderly, 300 or 400 million, almost 0.5 billion? My second question concerns the shift in home care and its half-life. Does Mr. Buma intend to reverse it or does he think it is what it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u277	I would like to say two things about this. The cuts made by the cabinet in the care of the elderly are much higher than before. We had initially concluded the spring agreement in the Catshuis. You remember that, Mr Wilders. Others have already said that you suddenly ran away, while I thought we were moving towards a deal. That's still a big surprise for me. So that amount can't be a surprise to you. The question of reversing the cuts in home care is a very justified one, because there is now 500 million. We want to make sure that is enough. We are asking ourselves this question, and we must look at it carefully. This would mean that we are making amendments or that we are changing our electoral programme. But I'm being honest. I just said that. If I tell the cabinet to add hundreds of millions, I can say it's a year too late, but it did. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u278	I would like to say a few words about the first point. We don't have to repeat the whole discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u279	You feel it's still high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u280	I'm sure I can feel it. I must say that, contrary to previous promises, the CDA did not want to cut back on development aid. Let's not bring that up again, because I don't think we're gonna get out of that now. The austerity on home care is one of the most antisocial cuts in this cabinet. There are people who are left to their fate because of a lack of home care. In addition, there will be a cut in nursing homes. There are people in wheelchairs who have to mop the floor themselves. There are the most poignant situations. I think we share that criticism of the cabinet. I would hope that the CDA, too, would like to take that cut off the table and turn that cut back completely. Otherwise, these are also empty words. We can differ on parts of each other. But taking away people's nursing homes and halving home care means leaving people to their own devices. Mr Buma was just talking about standards and values. This isn't one of them, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u281	I suggest that we come back to this when we deal with the budgets, because, once again, I see that the cabinet is making changes here. I appreciate that, too. I want to know if that's enough or not. The debate will have to provide the answer. Well, I guess we'll get back to that. Older people feel abandoned because they are finding it increasingly difficult to make ends meet. Pensions are shortened year in, year out. You can think of all the reasons why that happened, but together we must recognise that there is a very great responsibility for the European Central Bank. It keeps the interest rate around zero and thus the return on pension funds low. That bank has already bought over EUR 1600 billion in bonds. In short, that's a bubble. That bank is making more and more political decisions. Those are decisions with a very large political effect. They are politically beneficial to those countries in southern Europe that have large debts and loans, but they are bad for our pensioners. I am increasingly asking how much longer this cabinet will accept that. It really goes far beyond the mandate given to that bank by the Maastricht Treaty. I always see the vulnerability of politics and banking, but there is a limit. I say to Mark Rutte: you cannot stay deaf or blind for this. Doing nothing against this politicisation of the European Central Bank makes you and your cabinet jointly responsible. So the question is, what are you going to do? What are you gonna do about a bank that's been playing politics? We cannot accept that. If we want to defend our values, we must have our defence, our justice and our police in order. The limitation of the cuts proposed by the cabinet this year is a start. There, too, I say: that is important enough. However, it will not be enough in the long term. It's gonna take more than that. We shall not rule that out when the budget is dealt with. I have two more questions for the cabinet about the powers. The police unions have said that they want more powers for the police in the fight against the harassers. The CDA thinks that makes sense. How does the Prime Minister view that? The same applies to the AIVD. The director of the AIVD has asked for more powers. How does the Prime Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u282	I have heard Mr Buma say a lot of justified words about our freedoms and our values, and how to deal with them. I listened with great agreement to that, but he also went into the'sorry' that has resounded from different sides. I don't want to be Mr. Buma's confessor, but does he have an "sorry" to report today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u283	I think that's a very Catholic question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u284	I try to visualize it: Mr Van der Staaij as my confessor. That alone is a reason for me to be cautious about it. No, I didn't have any plans to say "sorry."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u285	I think that's a very Catholic answer. I can expect that from Mr Buma. I didn't mean it for the DOD, because we talked about it last year. You don't have to stay busy rubbing in that the CDA let it down there first and that again...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u286	I think that's rather Catholic, too, to do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u287	Let's change the subject... Oh, Mr. Pechtold's talking about Jesuits now, I hear. Then you're gonna have to be careful. But let us now turn to the issue of Europe. I have heard the CDA about the importance of doing what is important at national level, and about being careful about putting things down at European level. However, it is a long tradition of the CDA to give more and more powers to Europe. Now there was a good time, namely the examination of the SGP's own-initiative proposal that is now in the Upper House. It proposes that, in the case of new cases of conferral of powers, a two-thirds majority should be requested instead of a simple majority. Why did the CDA vote against that? Wouldn't that be something for a "sorry"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u288	The "sorry" is now being made very personal about a bill by Mr Van der Staaij. I have to say quite frankly that we voted very deliberately against it, after discussion in the group. The transfer of powers that is taking place is a choice for the parliament, with each group having to choose. For us, this can be done by a simple majority. We have constitutional moments when we vote differently, but we find it very risky to set up a two-thirds majority in more areas. So that was very conscious. It is now in the First Chamber and we will see how things are going there, but I have done this very consciously with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u289	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u290	But what's the argument now? At that time, I heard the saying that Europe should not be locked. But, for example, in the case of far-reaching decisions such as the introduction of the euro or the accession of new countries to the European Union, is it not strange to ask for at least a two-thirds majority instead of a simple majority, according to the system of our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u291	The question is when you will replace the present two-thirds majority or two-thirds majority, as in the case of a constitutional change, with something new, which we do not know. After all, we do not know any ordinary two-thirds majority in the Netherlands. We only know them by a number of specific laws. We don't think that's wise. Then you could also think of doing it with ethical questions. There are more questions that are very large and in which you actually want broad support. However, we found it very unusual to demand in this particular democratic context that'more than half' is not enough. I can add a second point to that. Sometimes it is not really clear whether something is a transfer of powers or not. After all, we have had a lot of proposals where half said it was a transfer of powers, while the other half said: no, this is not a transfer of powers; we have been doing this for a long time. You can imagine that on any subject. So this initiative proposal has been looked at very seriously. So if I have to say "sorry," that's: sorry, but I'm not going to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u292	At least it has become clear from this discussion that Catholics should go to the VVD, but that is not what I want to say here. Mr Buma said something about care. He said that he might come forward with proposals on this subject in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u293	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u294	And then I thought to myself: it's about the budget today, isn't it? He may want to move within the care of one post to another. That is fine; we are indeed doing so in budgetary discussions. But what he said, he had a load like he wants to send more money to health care. And then I say: is it within the care, fine, then we wait, but if he wants to send extra money to the care, then he must now also deliver the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u295	We will do so as we did last year. By the way, we did put it within our care at that time. So in the care department, that's true. I cannot entirely predict whether this year will happen, but that will have to be done at the latest in the General Financial Reviews, because that is where the budget will be pushed through. Mr Zijlstra, you have also seen that, for example, we have not tabled a counter-budget. I felt this coming a little bit, so I thought: before we get that whole circus back, I'm just gonna bring it up myself. I have just said that some of the changes that we wanted from the cabinet last year are now coming. Sometimes we say it should be a little more or less, but we have the impression that it is better to do so in the election programme. We have therefore deliberately not tabled a counter-budget, but we have tabled a number of amendments which, if they are to be moved between budgets, just like last year, simply come to the AMvB and if they are not, to the budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u296	Fine, because that indicates that the CDA actually supports the rest of the budget. That's very constructive. The CDA wants a few minor changes and for the rest the agreement with the budget. We've heard something different in the past few years. I would like to continue on that point. We have had a long discussion with Mr Roemer. I wasn't too happy that he suggested a plan in his contribution without a CPB transfer. But he also said that, and I thought that was a good thing that we would get the pass-through with everything before the elections. The CDA has taken a vacation of responsibility over the last few years; let me put it this way. The CDA voted against a lot of things. So I'm very curious about what the CDA is going to do in the election program. Is the CDA gonna charge that, too? Can the Dutch electorate see whether the pluses and the loves of the CDA are correct and whether the choices made in the past are still being made? Or was that hollow rhetoric and just a negative vote, a vote against something that is now being accepted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u297	In itself, I find it fascinating that in a debate on the big questions that live in this country, the first real, deep interruption of the VVD is about whether you have an election programme passed on. Mr Zijlstra must also ask himself whether that is what we are solving the problems that exist in the country. I will come back to this, Mr Zijlstra, so you may stand. I also see the Minister of Finance looking threatening, so I'm gonna keep going. Mr Zijlstra, you know that the passing on of election programmes is something I am very hesitant about. It sometimes seems to me that, in 2012, I experienced that we are making more of an election programme on a model than we are looking at reality and then translating it into an election programme. On the other hand, I also see that this is not a political but much more a practical consideration that you do need an referee. The Minister for Finance and Mr Zijlstra will agree with that. After all, it is difficult to weigh election programmes without a referee. We have had discussions on this with the Central Planning Office and others, I think. The Central Planning Office gives the impression of wanting to make a number of adjustments. Conclusion: I can't say yes or no at the moment, but with the CDA there is certainly the realization that passing on is a very important thing. Well, that's definitely in our system, but I'm holding on to the major drawbacks attached to it. So I hope the question "Did you do the math?" It is not the essence, it is the substance of everything we do. So it's not yes or no yet, but it's very considerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u298	The average viewer now thinks, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u299	Well, that's for him to think. But I think the viewer is really completely uninterested in this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u300	Mr Buma criticises: there are major problems and you ask this question. I have just mentioned these major problems in my own contribution. So don't make that accusation. It's about reliability, the reliability of politics. Are the choices we make true? In the discussion, Mr Roemer simply indicated that he was going to pass on the bill so that we can see if it is true and if we can debate it properly. The party that always relies on reliability and says that everything has to be solid, this man's CDA, Mr Sybrand of Haersma Buma, says here: we might come up with choices and when it comes to the core... Well, there were a lot of words, but it came down to the following: I don't think I should necessarily be so reliable that I'm going to prove to the electorate that the choices I make can actually be. For a party that says that reliability is important, that is actually an extremely disappointing remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u301	I think that Mr Zijlstra and I are on a completely different path. I don't really understand his happiness about the CDA doing it or not. The equation to calculate is one of which I gave the two variants. You can't deny that, because you can't deny that, because your calculators are doing it that way again at the moment, not in reality, but in models. And I'm not okay with that. Let me give you an example. On the other hand, Mr Zijlstra rightly says that people of us want to be clear about these figures. So that just pleads for it. What we are going to do in the end is that the electoral programme is being made by more people and we will soon decide. It may very well be that we let that pass; not heartfeltly, but then we will. Why do I say, "Watch it"? In this budget, EUR 570 million will go to the rent payment in one year. That's a huge amount in the housing market. This is not necessarily the most profitable investment in the housing market. You can also say: we give it to the housing corporations to build houses; then the rents don't have to go up and then you get some better houses. But why is it happening? Because this in the purchasing power models always scores very well with those groups where you want the purchasing power pluses. We have to be very careful about that. We know that this choice has been borne by purchasing power. That's why I'm not saying we're not going to charge. But that is why I say: we have to be very careful that the Netherlands does not get better from politicians who start with the model and end with the remark 'o, in reality that is something else than we thought'. That is something I would like to point out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u302	This says a lot. This is pretty shocking. It is a fact that there are people with a rented house who we find would get quite a tap in purchasing power under an unchanged policy. That is a problem and this cabinet has done something about it. Those are real people with real houses and real money. There's nothing modelly about that. It's crazy if Mr. Buma puts that stuff away like that, isn't it? It's just a good measure. So it's an incredibly bad example. But what matters is that Mr Buma does not dare to defend the choices made by the CDA with any justification. He knows very well that he cannot keep up with what he has done over the past few years, with all these proposals. If he puts that together in an election programme or in a counter-budget, it will prove that he can't keep it up at all. That is the reality. The reliability of the CDA would be beneficial if Mr Buma were simply to show the voters what he chooses and if he supports it. That is what we are doing; that is what the SP does and that is what all the serious parties in this house are doing. If he leaves that in the middle, that's a real weakness offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u303	What Mr Zijlstra says is all true. That's also, if you weigh this down, the reason to do it. But why I am not making that decision on the spot in this Chamber is because we are doing so through the electoral programme and there are also objections. I am only pleased that this discussion has taken place recently, because no one can be pleased with the models. Once again, the CDA sees very well the importance of an arbitrator in election programmes. I'd say listen to my words. Also know that I do not feel that the models really always approach reality. The Tax Plan is also an example of this. Really, we see the responsibility of each party, including ours, to have a good referee when we come up with proposals. If Mr Zijlstra does not think that is enough, I would say: wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u304	People will think: models and so on; of course, there is a lot to note. That's why we have the Central Planning Bureau and the Planning Office for the Environment. So we are looking not only at euros but also at what it does for the rest of our lives. There is criticism of this, but I am referring to this because I think it will not be the case that the CDA would not want to pass it on because perhaps choices of recent years are not covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u305	Mr Zijlstra said the same thing; I see this joy again. Just for the record, isn't that a reason to do it? I'd like to pass it on to you just to see if you can do it. So these are not, as Mr Pechtold might think, arguments against, so the CDA does not dare or I know what. It's an argument for it. Of course you have to take your water to the doctor. But I would just like to point out that even more, it is not that these models really have downsides. One downside mentioned Mr Van der Staaij. A single earner gets if he makes more, less money. By what? Because a tax plan has been created driven by models. That's not good, is it? Those people really live in the Netherlands and don't think: it's just the model. It's their real income. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u306	But to that sidewalk with the point clouds and all that stuff, we shouldn't end up. I was more concerned with something else. On Tuesdays we have a group meeting, like the CDA. We're in the room above the CDA's. If we had reached an agreement again, because we thought dropping the cabinet was something and because we wanted to try to improve something, we heard from the CDA: no, we do not do 1 billion on the Wmo. And we heard again: excise duty in the region for 100 million, we do not. Or we heard again: the study advance of a billion, we don't. I'd say, guys, calm down, the CDA knows what it's doing; it's gonna cover all those choices right now. The counter of the CDA is now sky-high; as if the State lottery has not fallen for six months, such a sum. I say every Tuesday: boys, you hear it's quiet down here; they're thinking and they're gonna cover it all nicely. One billion for education, one billion for the Wmo, those 100 million for the pumps in the border region that we have been incredibly harassed with: they're going to turn it all back and show it through. Do not send me back to my group by saying that you do not, Mr Buma!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u307	I have to say that I think it is a very good example to go on talking about the group meeting on Tuesday, but this question shows why I also see that it is important to carry on with the calculations. That's not so crazy, is it? I am the chairman of the group of the CDA and the election programme is presented separately from this debate. I'd like to do that in an orderly manner, as I just indicated. I see that Mr Pechtold likes to come again...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u308	Yes, finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u309	It is about small adjustments, but the fact is that today GroenLinks, the Christian Union and D66 show with a counter-budget where they make other choices. The CDA doesn't do that. So that's not a harbinger of my fears of just now? Absolutely not? So the CDA was in fact in complete agreement with the budget before us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u310	The changes that D66 wants are not so big that I say: they make the world different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u311	But the CDA doesn't have any changes at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u312	I'm just saying I'm showing some changes over the next few weeks. Again, I'm not running away from that. In fact, I have already said three times that there are a number of changes in the budget that I wanted last year. I may be angry because it's a year late, but I'm not. I have also indicated that, in my view, this is the essential point of the debate, and that we do not have today's problem if we are only talking about figures and find the greatest happiness in it. That problem is much bigger than just talking about 100 million in addition and whether there is a counter-budget with a CPB stamp on it. This is about the question of whether people in the Netherlands still see that what we are doing here as politicians is still about them at all. Is that seen at all as something that touches the core of what people are doing? I admit that's what I'm trying to say. I think that passing through the CPB isn't the core of what's going on. Are we gonna do it? Yeah, that's very possible. Why? Because I think it's more convenient to show it. But don't pretend it changes the world. Mr President, then I shall move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u313	Thank you. I think you're gonna have to finish up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u314	They started it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u315	I come to education and with that to the loan system, which has been mentioned for a while. For many students it is becoming increasingly difficult and unattainable to study, resulting in a mega debt afterwards. We all need eyes and ears for that. Does the cabinet see that this problem arises? I understand very well that time is short and I have read the budget, but what is the government doing in the coming academic year to prevent that gap from widening again? What is being done to ensure that all those students who do not start studying can actually come to study? I'm on the job market. Fortunately, there will be work again, but we have to be honest, because the work that comes is not permanent work. It's a lot of flexwork that beats the clock. The labour market is ruined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u316	So, I had to let that last one settle down for a while. However, I was still concerned about the study advance, because that is precisely a point where it is a question of whether or not you deliver. Mr Buma asks the cabinet how the influx is going, and that is a fair question. The Minister has also indicated in the past that he should closely monitor this. But the CDA was against it. Mr Buma, how is it that you are asking questions like this to the cabinet and that you are not submitting a choice whereby you simply reverse that advance? Then you're consistent, but why don't you make that choice? Why don't you tell me that the student is so important to your party that you're going to reverse that? I think the advance is very good for me, but I can respect it if you think so. But you won't. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u317	I always find it so fascinating with Mr Zijlstra that, depending on the state of the sun, he blames the CDA for being against something or for supporting 90% of his plans. I can never find out exactly what the reality is with him. That's point one. Moreover, I have just said it literally, read the Acts after it, but this is something you can make changes with in an election programme. Of course I can see that in this year, which runs until March, you will not reverse an entire system. But indeed, we were against it and I am not sorry for it, because it was justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u318	So the conclusion is that, despite these fine words, the CDA is unable to deliver and submit an alternative proposal. So that party simply agrees with the cabinet policy to which the study advance is part of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u319	This is so small and childish that I'm almost blowing my ears off. I do know that if I suggest that it is not going to happen at all in this half year. Moreover, I think it is an obligation of the CDA to make an alternative proposal if we say that we do not like a system and that it has to be changed. But that is exactly what an election programme is all about, and this is still budgetary treatment, I think. Of course, there are a lot of things going on in the elections, and Mr Zijlstra can expect us to come forward with our proposals in the elections. He may also assume that I am well aware of what has been said about the transfers. However, today we are discussing the budget of the Cabinet and I have a number of amendments to that effect, similar to last year, but I do not think that we can change a system now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u320	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u321	Thank you. I was working on the labour market. I said the labour market is breaking down, and I said it for a reason. Because what's going on is completely unsolvable with a Band-Aid here or there. A fundamental review is needed, and I appeal to the Cabinet, but also to the social partners, to do so now, if they want a fairer labour market. I know that there are discussions between employers and employees at the moment, for example, in the ESC, but I also know that if it takes too long, the election campaign is erupting, polarisation is increasing and nothing changes before you know it, or something doesn't want that polder to happen at all. That's why I'm making my call. Take down pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go. Get a shot of flex work. Is the Cabinet prepared to make every effort to reach an agreement to solve this problem in these months? Mr. Chairman. It has already been mentioned: forzzp'ers, the introduction of the Law deregulation assessment of labour relations, the DBA, has become a bureaucratic monstrum, while the abolition of the VAR declaration should have been an administrative burden reduction. Is the Cabinet prepared to review that law quickly? The Work and Security Act does not work either, because the division of labour has only increased. Prime Minister Rutte acknowledged that last week. He said, 'I thought that was a very strange line, and he has to weigh that up for a while, because if I am honest about this, then there is a crisis in the cabinet. In short, I must not be honest because otherwise I will have a cabinet crisis. That's so weird. Of course there was another apology letter: sorry, we're not gonna change anything; it's gonna stay the way it is. In short, what is the cabinet going to do now? The Prime Minister actually tells the Netherlands that things have to be different, but says a week later: we are doing it no different. However, the problems are considerable. To make tough statements, to say sorry and then to do nothing: that is the degeneration of politics. Calling and abhorring in the debate: isn't that what politics is supposed to fight? Politics should not be involved, but why should it be: 'idiots','screwed tockies' and'screw of the ledge'? And then, "Did I really say that? Excuse the Tokkie family." "Did I really say that: a thousand euros added, not a penny more to Greece, not Turkey to the EU, hands off mortgage interest? Sorry, sorry, sorry, no offense!" Development of politics. What was once "no words but deeds" has turned into "no deeds but words" in politics. Turkish Dutch people who misbehave are told: fuck off, fuck off to Turkey. Many earners in business: toodledokie, then go to London. But they're not going. They're all staying here. Apparently, that's politics today. I look at the Prime Minister and tell him: this is not the way we should do this, because we have what we say to be true too. Politics should be about action. How can we be surprised that people lose faith in politics if even for the prime minister the highest goal has become the goal? Politicians don't have to swear, they don't have to use tough language. Politicians do not have to make impossible promises, because that only destroys confidence in democracy further. That is bad, because our democracy is not self-evident. International peace and peace are not self-evident. The preservation of our values and traditions is not self-evident. We'll have to defend them, because they're worth passing on. Madam President. 2017 is an election year and this budget is the last of this cabinet. New plans will be made after March. This budget will therefore be obsolete within a year. The CDA doesn't mind, because other choices are needed. If we make it, we can make our country better. Then we can heal what's broken. Then we can fight individualism and tackle the government bureaucracy that Tocqueville predicted 200 years ago. Then we can protect our values and traditions and strengthen our society, so that our country becomes the beautiful country that we want to pass on to our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u322	The disadvantage of not having a counter-budget is that it is difficult to address the CDA on choices that are not mentioned in Mr Buma's contribution. I have one on refugee policy. Our political groups still differ on this point, while both our supporters in the churches are very much involved in the reception of refugees. We could find each other in care in the region. I think we both think that's important. Is that a priority? Is that something the CDA really sees the value of and wants to raise money for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u323	Reception in the region is one of the very great things. It is also the reason why the CDA is so critical of a pot of EUR 6 billion from the European Union going to Turkey and not to countries like Lebanon or Jordan. If we could remove a billion dollars from that alone, we would have solved a major problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u324	Then we must understand the choices that are being made. We could find each other in the priority, and say: indeed, in the countries around Syria it is now crucial. Lebanon captures incredibly many refugees. Jordan captures a lot of refugees, a multitude of their capacities, and Turkey ditto. If we are full of reception in the region and we are full of humanitarian aid, and if we know that it is starting around Syria, should we not take a step? Then we must be able to find each other and say: do we also need money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u325	That's what this is, isn't it? The Netherlands is paying for it, a lot. The Netherlands itself, less than in the past but relatively heavily, pays for development aid. I agree to move it, but the cabinet is also taking steps in that direction. A number of countries are no longer participating this year, and rightly so. So we need to shift that. As far as European money is concerned, I find it strange that the big money market...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But I think that is what Mr Segers means by his question: will there be money for development cooperation this year? No, not extra. I believe that there are far greater priorities, such as the Defence Department, which is about squeaking and squatting. The cabinet will make a start, but more needs to be done. I'm also thinking about Security and Justice. No, this must be done within this year's development cooperation budget. Then there will be an election, and as far as I am concerned we have to see whether it is enough or whether it should be more on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u326	First of all, it can be both. That shows the counter-budget of the Christian Union. You can join us on the investment path for the Defense Department. In our electoral programme, we will redouble our efforts to this end, because that is indeed an important priority. At the same time, if we want to work towards a safe world, we will also have to contribute to the first reception of refugees in the region around Syria. That is not only possible in Turkey; it must also be done in Lebanon and it must also be done in Jordan. If we are all talking about reception in the region and humanitarian care there, I find it disappointing that there will be no money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u327	A brief response, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u328	I think this is going to be too small again, direction: add 100 million from the Dutch OS budget. That is what Mr Segers is essentially asking. If we don't, it would be too little. From the Netherlands there is still a substantial amount of money going to development cooperation. There's other choices you can make. Again, I do not think that the overall budget should now be increased. This could possibly play a role in the elections, for the longer term. My main point would be this. We now have so much money that goes to Turkey. Moreover, I believe that only over 100 million have been paid; the question is whether it will ever come. Send that money to those countries. Then we do not even have to talk about our budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u329	Thank you very much, Mr Buma. I now give the floor to Mr Samsom on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u330	Mr. Chairman. The electrical teacher led me proudly around his classroom, where he trained his boys and girls. You felt his drive, his love for the job. But when I complimented him, he stopped. "You know," he said, "these youngsters are going to be so proud of their MBO-2 diploma outside. They've taken the most out of their talents. But the employers are already on their way to Mbo-3, Mbo-4. Then I can cry." With this one sigh, this teacher summarized the most important task we stand for: to respond to the growing concern of more and more people that progress is no longer for them, that others can and cannot benefit from it. It is as if you are increasing the lower sport of the social ladder, so high that many wonder: can I get to that later? Will my kids be able to get to that later? That grabs us by the throat, including me, because it is at the heart of social democratic politics: make sure that ladder is there, so that everyone gets the chance to climb higher up. An important breakthrough in the past period did provide a basis for this, such as more work for people with disabilities between colleagues in ordinary businesses, the additional income advantage for low-income people or investment in vocational education. But it takes more, much more. Otherwise, too many people are gonna miss out. We must not rest until we have built that generous economy in which there is a place for everyone, with whatever training we need. It is the story of this reign, which is now beginning its last six months. After four years of hard work and sometimes difficult measures, the Netherlands is doing better, but we are not there yet, far from it. But also look where we're from. Between 2002 and 2012, the politician had sent the voter five times to the ballot box and in the intervening period too much remained. Polarisation blocked progress at the lowest point of the Doogkabinet-Rutte I, in which the VVD and the CDA handed themselves over to the runaways of the PVV. In 2012, the Netherlands was in bad shape, economically, socially and politically. In 2012, the Labour Party campaigned with the message "it's no time for beautiful promises," because the Netherlands is a coalition country and we need to work together with others in difficult times and because no one could predict what would happen to us, what turn when the euro crisis would take, or Greece would need another loan. We made only one commitment: the Labour Party, however difficult it becomes, will always stick to its compass of fair sharing and make progress possible. And it became difficult, because the first year unemployment continued to rise. The economy was shrinking and public finances were getting further out of hand. There you were, facing all those people who told you how many vain attempts they had already made to find work. Where was the progress? Where was the justice? Do you think we're ever gonna make it? Yeah, four years of hard work makes it work. The restoration of the Netherlands is now reaching living rooms. Unemployment is lower than when this cabinet started and is also falling rapidly. Purchasing power is increasing again, the economy is growing and there is more than just the economy. Progress is also about our nature, about our culture, about our energy supply. Ten years of stagnation in the first decade of this century had not only crippled the economy. It would also have caused us an almost unbridgeable delay in the field of renewable energy. In the coalition agreement, we agreed to quadruple in ten years. So there was an energy agreement, but it went so slowly. And again there was the despair: are we still stuck in the mud again? No, last month the breakthrough came. In the coming years, the Netherlands will build the largest windmill park in the world at sea for half the estimated costs. I say to you: this is just the beginning of the sustainability of our economy. We and especially our children are going to have a lot of fun about what has been going on these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u331	I would like to come back to the point where you started: how to start as a cabinet when we are in such a crisis? Do you even disagree with your own economists when they see that there has been far too little investment in the economy at the beginning and far too much savings? We could have saved, monitored and restored a lot of jobs if we had invested a lot more in small and medium-sized enterprises at first, in domestic spending and in purchasing power for people. We're not just making it up. I said it then, and you said it then: no sprint to the 3%. But you did it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u332	I was talking about the beginning of 2013. The cabinet was on the platform on 5 November 2012 and even Mr Roemer cannot claim that in the first few months you will reverse a rapidly shrinking economy and rapidly rising unemployment. That's one. Secondly, he mentioned our economist. We have economists in the group, and I am proud of that. I don't know who else he means as "our" economist. I do know that someone like Bas Jacobs gave an interview in 2012, just after the release of the reaction agreement, in which he said: they are the right measures to be taken now. Afterwards, he says something else. There are a lot of people who do that. At that time, however, many economists agreed. I understand, however, that Mr Roemer spoke about last week's report, which said that we should have dealt with the French battle with budgets. I would like to do all that except with the French battle, and you should not want to do that, Mr Roemer. Look at France: 25% youth unemployment, 25% youth unemployment. The economy is not growing or barely growing, the public debt is 90% and now there are major problems. Is that the opinion that Mr Roemer would like to follow? I certainly don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u333	No. The advice I wanted to give there we agreed on before the elections together is not a sprint to that ridiculous 3% that was imposed. At the moment the economy is in such a heavy state that we said that together, but that was before the elections you must want to invest in the economy. If the companies can't do it at the time, the government must help to do so. This saves jobs, gives people purchasing power and air, and prevents so many companies in small and medium-sized enterprises from going bankrupt. Only the story left you day after the election, Mr Samsom. You followed the hard line of the VVD and the hard cuts have continued. We too had considerable reversals in our electoral programme, but we did start with a huge investment in the economy to prevent lasting damage. I'm afraid you dropped out, resulting in permanent damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u334	In fact, that story was gone before the election. If you look at the pass-through of the election programmes when you did at least at that time, you will see that the SP also made substantial cuts in the first years and years after that and even quickly reached a budget deficit below 3%. If you look at the reality of this cabinet, you will see that in 2013 we stretched the budgetary rules to the maximum. That is exactly what the Labour Party called for before the elections. We respect Europe's rules, but we do say that the maximum space must be used. We have stretched them so much that we did not have to make all the cuts that would have been necessary if we had applied the rules exactly. I'm trying to stay a little away from a well-nick game. Especially now, four years later, because I don't think that's gonna help anybody at all. I believe that we were both looking for a good balance between keeping public finances in order at the time, because there is not so much left to leave a huge budget deficit for our children, and at the same time making the right investments. You just put a different accent in that than we did, that's right. When we began to rule with the VVD I told you that you would have to compromise with each other. But don't pretend there were fundamental differences there. Look at the total austerity mission of the Netherlands since 2009, since the crisis. The SP saved 40 billion euros throughout that period. That's not so much less than almost all the other parties here did. So don't make the difference now more than it is. That's what we do so often on a day like this. But let's see where that balance can be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u335	The big difference was that we made investments in the economy and in jobs in the first part of this period of government. You also saw in the accounts that at that time we were able to keep most jobs in the short term. You also saw that we kept our budget deficit within 3%. That wasn't even a necessity for me, but we did. At that time, we would have given a strong boost to domestic spending. It turns out, indeed, that if you had followed that, we would have lost hundreds of thousands of jobs less and we would have had more economic growth, because we are now simply lagging behind the countries around us. It is a pity that you then let your ears hang on to the VVD and abandoned your own principles, because the damage has been enormous and we have to this day suffered tremendously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u336	You say we are lagging behind the countries around us. I have just mentioned France, but we can also look at countries a little further, across the North Sea. England made the budget deficit go down hugely. There, too, income disparities have been greatly increased at that time. You wouldn't want that either. In Belgium youth unemployment is also above 20%. I take it the SP doesn't want to take care of that. It is about the right balance between proper budgetary policies in the short and long term and sound economic policies in the short and long term. You say we got more jobs. Yeah, in the first couple of years. But do you know what would have cost us in the long run the SP's orbiting machine? That's also a balance. I don't blame you for making that choice. But I'll make another choice. But let us not try to take each other's measure on a principle. We all then, and I was very happy with that, sought the right balance in a difficult time, in a difficult crisis. We have found them in this way and I note that the economy is now growing more rapidly than in the neighbouring countries, that our unemployment is falling faster, that purchasing power is rising faster and that income disparities are shrinking. I think that's something to pay attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u337	Sure. But we have to take that measure together, because it was then a conscious choice of your party to go along with hard cuts, knowing that you knew that they would prolong and deepen the crisis. You knew that then, because you also said before the elections that those were the consequences if the VVD line were followed. We have accepted these consequences. We have said that we must start with these investments. You've dropped out, which means we've lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. And yes, it's easy to talk about jobs in 2040, with math models that don't matter at all. Because if I cut back on welfare tomorrow and let everyone work for up to 90 years, according to the same models, I have a million jobs in it. People in 2013 and 2014, in the middle of the crisis, wanted to have a job that day and not in 2060.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u338	You can try to put away models or these and that, but France is a real country. France has done what was prescribed by the SP as a recipe: let the budgetary rules run as much as possible and try to invest in the first few years. And little reform, that too was the SP recipe for, for example, the labour market and care. And look what's going on in France right now. I would like to give my colleague François Hollande everything, but not the economic policy he is pursuing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u339	First of all, I think it is really worth a compliment what this cabinet has done for the workers in the Netherlands. All of them, especially in the last quarter, have improved a lot. But Mr Samsom has just said that inequality has narrowed in this country. I don't think he can say that. The inequality in the Netherlands has not diminished, because the cabinet has focused on the workers. Mr Zijlstra also confirmed that. They account for about 60% of households in the Netherlands. The other 40% have not deteriorated over the past year, and I do not want to say so, but has improved less. This has made the difference bigger. Isn't that the conclusion that inequality has grown?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u340	I have a table here. You made that, didn't you, to prove what you're saying? Honestly, I know you as a financial mastermind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u341	I see that opinions are divided!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u342	I'm trying to give a compliment, I can't let the rest of the room do it! I have great respect for your financial qualities, Mr. Klaver, but this made me a little bit miserable. You're not gonna try to add up medians over years and otherwise magic with numbers? There is one referee who calculates for us whether income differences in this country increase or decrease. That is the Central Planning Office, which has been mentioned many times today. That's hard enough as it is. They simply note that income differentials have decreased between 2014 and 2016. Just say from the first year that we had an impact on a budget, because the budget for that was largely inspired by the Spring Agreement, in which a few parties took all kinds of measures. You are right that the difference between workers and those who are not employed is barely kept up to date. That's right. This year, by the way. I'm proud of that. But the last four years haven't exactly worked out every year. 'Cause it's really hard. At a time when, for example, contract wages are rising rapidly, I assume that Mr Klaver is also very much in favour of this and will not try to prevent it. It's hard to keep up with those who aren't working. GroenLinks doesn't get that either. In 2012, GroenLinks started a fantastic election program. That programme runs until 2017. Mr Klaver himself must look at the differences in income between workers and non-workers in his policies: three times as much increase in purchasing power for the workers as for the non-workers. Then we have really done a lot better, Mr Klaver!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u343	I find what Mr Samsom says interesting. The only thing we have done when it comes to the figures we presented last week is that we have added up the purchasing power of recent years, the increase per year, and multiplied by the median from 2017. That is not the method used by the CPB, but I dare to put my hand in the fire for it that if the CPB checks this out, I have asked the CPB as well as the Ministry of Finance to check it out and that Mr Samsom will be able to repeat what he said about the mastermind. Check it out! I'm totally open to that! You can see that the non-working people have made much less progress. But that's a choice. That is why Mr Roemer and I have tabled a proposal to increase, for example, the general tax rebate. In doing so, we will ensure that the difference between a benefit and work continues to be paid, but at least we will see a greater plus, especially at the lowest incomes. Why is that so important? That is so important because we want to combat inequality in the Netherlands. We must not only ensure that workers improve on it, but everyone else. I have one more thing. It's nice to refer to the gini coefficient. Last year I also had an interesting debate on this with Mr Roemer. But with me, Mr Samsom cannot do that, because the gini coefficient does not say anything about the short-term policy of this cabinet. The gini coefficient says something about the long term. The CPB concludes in the Macro Economic Recognition, the Cord, that the gini coefficient will increase precisely in 2021 as a result of the policy pursued by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u344	You can just calculate the gini coefficient for each year, but I am not going to bother Mr Klaver with that, because it is all difficult enough already. Income inequality is just decreasing in these years...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u345	I don't mind if you bother me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u346	Income inequality is simply decreasing in these years and it is also continuing to decline. If the VVD does indeed get 76 seats, I heard the prophecy earlier, and I hate it, but perhaps it will happen again someday, the policy will be continued in such a way that income inequality increases. But that's really different. If you add it differently, it may be about the same, but as I said, you too cannot get a normal relationship in your own election programme. In fact, with you, the differences were many times greater, even greater than with the CDA. There is something to be said about your social profile. I would like to comment on the proposal you are making to Mr Roemer. Of course, we can always add something to the huge amount of income right that we have already done at the moment. But what I do blame you for is that last week you said in a video on the Internet that this cabinet chose to give the high incomes more than the low ones. That is a flagrant lie; that is simply not true. You know that, too. It would please you if you admitted it. If you meant that due to the increase in contract wages or low interest rates, high incomes received a little more purchasing power than this cabinet intended, you were telling the truth. But you said it differently, much more flattering. And I know you as a smart man, so you chose your words consciously. You said that this cabinet, this coalition, has chosen to give high incomes more than low incomes. You can simply leave that with the cabinet, because that will confirm tomorrow that the actual figures are as follows: the high incomes have turned in €3,500. We've asked for extra taxes on that. Mr Zijlstra just said that this was not his choice. That's right. But we have asked for €3,500 of them and we have given the low incomes €1,700. That is the reality. It would adorn Mr Klaver, and it would help this discussion if he were to stick to the facts and the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u347	I don't think it's that vile. I'll stick to the facts. We also showed it with the numbers. The purchasing power development of the lowest incomes in the Netherlands is far behind. The choices made in the five billion package last year, for example the choice to extend the fourth disc, are not our choice. That is one of the reasons why we have dropped out of the Tax Plan. We could have spent that money much better on the lowest incomes, especially those who are not at work. That is our choice; that is a political disagreement. But don't pretend the facts don't add up, Mr. Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u348	Now you say it differently. Now you're not saying it right either, but at least it's not a flagrant lie. You don't say: this cabinet has given people something. You say that the increase in purchasing power was different for high incomes than for low incomes. May I give you a few examples that are not about medians and other voodoo economics, but just about families? Single parents working, a vulnerable category, and at the minimum wage, received 19% purchasing power in the past period. If you were on a morale, you'd get about half of it. That's still a good amount. The following applies to all categories of benefit. People at the social minimum received more than, for example, families with one working partner, than working families. So you can have median stuns until you weigh an ounce, but we've been looking at ordinary families with children. We've done that every year. In August, we sat together every year to shape this in the right way. We have created a very decent and fair income picture for working people and people with benefits, which has reduced the income gap in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u349	I have just mentioned all the groups mentioned by Mr Samsom. I complimented the Cabinet for that. But when I look at the overall picture, I see that the purchasing power of beneficiaries has improved about half less than that of the highest incomes. I would have liked to see other choices made. We are also putting forward proposals for this. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u350	I found the metaphor of the social ladder and the bottom step of it a very nice one. I found that very striking. To build on what Mr Klaver said, I have the figures here. They are indeed medians. If we are talking about a single mother with children and a single one with an income around modal, €35,000, and we take the period 2014-2017, we see a decrease of €13 with the single mother and an increase of €63 with the single one with a modal income. How does that relate to the social ladder Mr Samsom was talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u351	Sorry, but the purchasing power increase of the single mother at the minimum wage is 20%. So that can't be a drop. And for modal, it's 10%. So that's not a drop either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u352	In 2017, that's true, but if we're going to look at 2016, we're talking about -1, in 2015 -26, in 2014 -6.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u353	That's why I'm adding up this whole period for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u354	I am talking about the period 2014-2017. I'd like to give you this table through the messenger. My second point is the long-term effects of income inequality. This policy has a long-term impact. You were just talking about the Central Planning Office. Well, these are the figures from the Central Planning Bureau: 2.9% with this policy, for which the PvdA is co-responsible. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u355	The messenger is now giving me a note on purchasing power. Why don't we ask the Cabinet to tell us what's really going on tomorrow? You're gonna take a year out of it. I thought: we are at the end of the cabinet period; let's add it up. Then you see a huge increase in purchasing power for the single mother with a minimum wage. It is remarkable that you take it out, because it has the biggest increase in purchasing power throughout this cabinet period. As I said about the long-term policy, if you go through to 2040, anything can happen. In 2017, there will be elections. We have more than any other party over the past cabinet period, certainly more than GroenLinks. You did not have an election programme for reasons I am not going to come back to............................................................................................................................................... We will do that again next time. You can hold the Labour Party to that. That compass is still perfectly tuned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u356	It is the impact of this policy on 2021. That's what the PvdA is responsible for. I come to my final point. In August 2012, you tweeted: "Triest low point today. Unemployment reaches 510,000." We're still in that neighborhood. Do you still think we're at a sad low? And what has been your bet in the last four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u357	Over the past four years, we have ensured that we have continued to see the highest rise in unemployment in 2012, after having been on the fence, because that has not changed the reality of the past four years, which has turned to the fastest falling unemployment rate in the last four years. That seems to me to be a fundamental difference that I'm quite proud of. We've been working hard to get this economy back to work. There are more jobs than ever and unemployment is falling rapidly. The kind of jobs I'm about to talk about. That is the difference and that is what has happened in the last four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u358	I note that we are reaching the same goal in net terms: the policy of the last four years has been stalled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u359	From the fastest rising to the fastest falling unemployment: is that a standstill? The mathematical center is indeed zero, but for the world it really is a big difference. Our goal was more than just recovery. We also wanted to link recovery to justice. Struggling with an economic crisis is by no means self-evident, as the countries around us show every day. But this is where it worked. Income differences are getting smaller. Bonuses are limited by the strictest legislation in Europe. Public investment, as in education, has increased. The fight against labour market flexibility has been stepped up. Tax avoidance is being tackled more firmly, large assets are being taxed more heavily and cleaners are getting a permanent contract with the government again. Step by step towards a fairer society. This budget is also continuing this line. We ask again for a contribution from higher incomes to give older people and people a little more purchasing power at the minimum. The Labour Party is particularly pleased with the 100 million to combat child poverty. We urge the Cabinet to make every effort to achieve the ambition that it also achieves every child, to give every child the opportunity to participate. The same applies to investment in education. As far as we are concerned, they are mainly used to combat inequality. The additional investments in security have been wisely chosen. In our view, the strengthening of the district agent is crucial to our fight against nuisance and radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u360	Education. I think the supporters are already fighting each other pretty hard on social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u361	Is that right? I'm putting my phone away now; that's really helping. You could do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u362	It was announced that an additional 200 million would be made available for education. That's great, because we started the cabinet period with a problem. With the fall agreement, we've pushed it up a lot, and now we're gonna get 200 million more. That's very good, just like the 100 million for poverty reduction. Let me also congratulate you on that. The figures show, however, that although the budget is increasing, this has to do with other developments. The money in the classroom is falling because 400 million is going down, some of which can be filled in further after the elections. Mr. Samsom, explain yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u363	We also learned lessons from your financial specialist. I certainly do not underestimate Mr Pechtold, but behind him is Mr Koolmees, who always insists on budgetary discipline and, for example, on dealing with the exchange rate problem. He always says, "If something goes wrong, you have to adjust." This is always the way it is with every budget. Mr Pechtold knows that like no other. This cabinet is therefore faced with the challenge of dealing with the question of terms of trade. The cabinet simply fills that out, as we have done in the SWZ budget, for example. Mr Pechtold just said that he was very happy with the 100 million at SZW, but he was not looking at the whole further budget. The money for the lumpsum is indeed decreasing. That's right. This is not only because there was less money available, but also because less money needs to be made available, because the number of students is decreasing. During this cabinet period, the amount of money per pupil increases in each category of education. Last year's budget for 2017 was "The budget is always announced one year in advance "about €36 billion. Mr. Pechtold was fine with it. Now there is EUR 37 billion and he complains about too little money. Mr. Pechtold, explain yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u364	Indeed, this period is increasing. That's because D66 kept the paw stiff and made sure there was extra money. That's the money. But now we are looking at the budget for this year and I have to tell the children in the eighth grade that Mr Samsom says that the exchange rate and the lump sum mean that after 15 March they will be told that less money will come into the classroom. Mr Samsom is right in saying that the budget is increasing, but that is because of the collective agreements. Each euro of it does not enter the classroom, but it flies through the treasurer in the collective agreements, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u365	That's the teacher's salary, the teacher's salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u366	Yeah, that's fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u367	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u368	But I'm talking about the money in class.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u369	That teacher is in the classroom, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u370	Yeah, but he gets his paycheck at home. I'm talking about the money. Mr Samsom should not ignore it, because it is simply fair in the budget: in order to bring the budget of OCW to a close, a task has been included, among other things, for the purposes of the budget of the European Community. There you have him again: the lump sum, the subsidies and the adjustment of estimates. So there's 200 plus and 400 goes off. That's what they get in eighth grade: that's minus 200. My question is: why is this task set out in the budget? And why is it, therefore, that the consequences are presented; what does that mean for that class only after the elections? I would say: let us work together and take that task out of each amendment for a moment. Because then there's real money for that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u371	First of all, I really know D66 as the education party. Education is taught by teachers. Everyone knows that the teacher makes a difference in a child's life. We all know, too, that Mr Pechtold's party points out every day that teachers could be better paid than they are currently. That is why we have fought for this collective agreement with an increase in wages, after years of stagnation. We fought for that. I'm proud that the money goes there. And then Mr. Pechtold says he'll take the money, too, because I assume he doesn't want to take it from the teacher...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u372	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u373	That cover's gonna go away; thank goodness. Mr Pechtold also wants the money to go to students in the classroom. Let's see what we can do. I would like to work with Mr Pechtold, but he should not make us cut back on education. We spent more money on education. It just doesn't exactly go to those to whom Mr Pechtold wants to give it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u374	Mr Samsom spoke directly to Mr Klaver. I'm saying there's been cuts in schools. I'm not saying there's been cuts in education. So I'm holding up what I said. The collective agreement is not regulated by Mr Samsom. It's been arranged by the partners. We grant after five years of standstill...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u375	I remember a few phone calls, but I won't bother Mr. Pechtold with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u376	That's great if Mr Samsom does that too! We're talking about the money that goes into class.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u377	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u378	The budget says that we still have to cut back in the spring, after the elections. But let's put the dimming behind us now that Mr. Samsom is doing a hand-picking. In order to get the money really into the classroom and into school, I would therefore like to take this task together, which is still there, and that phrase is only in the budget of I and M, and not in the budget of M. Then Mr Samsom also, with D66, concludes a period. Can I remind Mr Samsom of 13 February? On 13 February, Mr Samsom said that we are going to invest 10 billion in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u379	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u380	Then I won't accept a $200 million cut in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u381	We have already talked about whether that is a cut or whether the money simply does not go entirely in the direction Mr Pechtold wants. If there is to be a change of direction, that is what budgetary treatment is for, and perhaps even the Financial Reviews, if Mr Pechtold wants to deal with it even more harshly. Let's see what we come up with, but we've gone to the limit in this period. So there is no room for manoeuvre, but I know Mr Pechtold as a creative man, and I certainly know his financial spokesman, as well as mine. So that's gonna work. Finally, I would like to mention one budget line for next year, which we are extremely happy with: the 50 million for chronically ill. Other parties, too, I refer in particular to the Christian Union and SGP in this context, have long called for this. This is in line with giving extra support to those who need it most. Not everything went well in recent times. Mistakes were also made. Major changes, such as those in health care or in social employment, have caused uncertainties that we have not always been able to eliminate quickly enough or completely. Of course, a number of measures would have been designed differently in another coalition. Compromise with the VVD significantly slows the pace towards our ideal. The Prime Minister is now shouting, "Oh!'. But the direction wouldn't have been very different. Together, the PvdA and the VVD have committed themselves to the just restoration of a country that was stuck. It's like pulling a car down deep in the mud together on dry land. No matter how big the differences between our parties, we felt the joint mission: to lift the standstill and to help our country move forward again. Now that the car's back on dry ground and it's back on, we can go in the direction. Now it's important who gets the key. What kind of society do we want to go to? That direction is clear to us. We want to go to that generous economy where there's a place for everyone. We want to see that caring society where we look more at each other. And we want to go to a connected Netherlands, in which everyone can be themselves, be free and feel safe, in miniskirts, with headscarf, with kettle or hand in hand with your loved one, even when it comes to two men.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u382	Now we can hear what the Labour Party wants after the elections, but I still want to look back at the past period with this cabinet of the PvdA and the VVD. In the 2012 election campaign, Mr Samsom said: I promise that I cannot make promises. He thought: I will have to compromise within the coalition, perhaps with the VVD. It turned out to be. For example, there is nothing in iron and concrete about agriculture or nature in the coalition agreement. The Labour Party had green ambitions and she also expressed them in 2012. None of this has been achieved, although there was room for it because there was an animal-friendly majority. Let me give you a few examples and then I would like to get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u383	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u384	Well, Mr. Chairman, I haven't been there that many times. This has to be possible. I refer, for example, to the fact that the Labour Party said that there should be a ban on pleasure hunting. There was nothing about that in the coalition agreement with the VVD. It just could, because there was a majority for it. It didn't happen. The construction of mega stables would be stopped. There was nothing about that in the coalition agreement. Yet the Labour Party goes along with the VVD. So I can list more things, promises that could have just been made. How does Mr Samsom feel about this fact, namely that he did not deliver on those promises when he could have done so because nothing was laid down in iron and concrete in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u385	If you think the coalition agreement describes the whole reality, then I must disappoint you. During a period of government this is a good example of what happens again and again, so you have to work together again. That is not only happening with the VVD. We have also worked with many other parties in this Chamber during this period. I am also grateful to the other parties for being able to do so. That has not happened to you very often, Mrs Thieme, but perhaps it will. You're talking about the ban on hunting. We've found another way to do that. It is true that you do not like it, but he could count on a very broad support. As a result, it could also be introduced and continued. In the end, politics also means that you do not always try to regulate everything with the smallest possible majority for a while, but that you know how to initiate sustainable changes. That goes for nature. You mentioned the mega-stables. We have taken steps on this subject. Those aren't the steps you'd like to take. That would be weird, too. If all of a sudden we are going to perform exactly the Party for Animals' party program, then you really should scratch yourself behind the ears. You choose to stand all the way on one side of the spectrum. That's your right. Please assume from this former actor that you do not always get what you want. That's the way it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u386	It is a fact that the electoral programme clearly states that there must be a ban on pleasure hunting and that there must be an end to the mega-stables. There was a majority in the House of Representatives to achieve that, but the Labour Party still let its ears hang on to the VVD by looking for compromises. That wouldn't have been necessary. How can Mr Samsom explain that to his constituents?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u387	If you think you want to rule together and when you have a majority for a moment think you don't have to compromise with any other party, then you're going to have a very difficult time in a coalition period. We certainly did not give the VVD its way here. If we had given the VVD her way in the hunt, something else would have really come out. The same goes for the megastables. We have found a compromise here, not only with the VVD, but also with other parties, if you like. We believe that the yacht has been reduced enough to be satisfied. The VVD will look at the net from the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u388	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u389	It is completely unclear why a compromise had to be reached. There was just a majority in the House of Representatives who wanted a ban on the yacht. I would very much like to know why you gave the VVD a little bit of its meaning. Why didn't you stick to your ideals? Then what was the change that apparently had to be redeemed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u390	You may talk in terms of change, but eventually you rule with each other here and you conduct politics with each other. You're trying to work something out with each other. The ban on ritual slaughter is also a good example. That's what you just came up with. Yes, my party might want to ban the ritual slaughter altogether, although there have been a lot of fierce discussions about this within my party. At the CDA, I think it had just inclined to the other side. A lot of other parties struggled with this too. Then you just look for a solution that delivers a satisfactory result for everyone. That's politics in the Netherlands. That's cooperation. That's making progress. For that you sometimes have to come to a comparison, accept a piece of each other equally. It's possible. It's working, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u391	Try explaining that to the 70% of your constituents who turn their backs on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u392	That's all I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u393	You are right: that is completely in vain until now. Unfortunately, the direction I have just outlined is not self-evident. Without redirecting, the Netherlands just goes the other way. If we don't do something, the bottom sport of the ladder will be raised higher and higher. That connected Netherlands we're talking about also sometimes seems farther away than ever. There are terrorist attacks and tensions in Turkey or elsewhere in the Middle East are having an effect here too. Are we still safe? More importantly, are we going to be one society, or are we going to be facing each other with heated heads? More and more people are increasingly asking themselves what kind of country we really are, who we are in the Netherlands. Convivial conversations at the door suddenly become fierce when Black Pete comes up or the peasantkini. At first glance, that's strange. Why such excitement about a children's party or a garment that virtually no one has ever seen in person? That is because, as it turns out, there is a great fear behind it. Many native Dutch people fear that the Netherlands will no longer be the Netherlands. Many ethnic Dutch people fear that, despite all the efforts they make, they should not really be part of it. Thus a garment that almost no one wants to wear, and almost no one wants to forbid, suddenly becomes a splinter. We have to answer that, with different rules and ingredients than politics is used to. Because laws don't work here. We need more self-confidence and more pride; proud of our Dutch way of life. That is the Netherlands of freedom, equality and connection. Those are values that everyone can choose for, whatever faith, whatever mode or color you have. Whoever chooses to do so is part of it, all the way. Discrimination and exclusion are fiercely combated, but equally fiercely and uncompromisingly we must fight those who reject our way of life. In our society there is no place for hatred, intolerance and extremism. Only if we regain self-confidence that our soft values of tolerance and connection are ultimately much stronger than discrimination and exclusion, only if we can promote the faith in our values of equality and freedom more actively, can we properly conduct the discussion about the farmerkini. Then it's not about the garment itself, it's about the lack of freedom behind it. This self-confidence also helps to act more effectively against cross-standard behavior, such as that of that treitervlogger in Zaandam. Because that too is about more than laws and rules. If you just uphold the law, you're short and you're too late. With knowledge of street culture assertive and early intervention, avoids derailments. We must appeal to parents and, where necessary, assist them in taking their responsibility, and make no mistake about the fact that criminal behaviour does not remain without consequences, not even a little bit. That's how you let decency gain from nuisance and intimidation. An effective approach to this begins where the Corner and Cod disputes between hardliners and tea drinkers disappear, because we both need very much. The neighborhood cop who knows everything about the neighborhood and the residents is just as important for our security as hard-acting arrest teams. Let us nurture and strengthen this Dutch approach. The Dutchman doesn't exist. We're 17 million different people. But the Dutch way of life does exist and it is worth fighting for. Celebrate freedom, cherish tolerance, live equality and love the rule of law: that is Dutch citizenship. With all our differences, we can be one together. But unfortunately, the dividing forces are also long standing. On the one hand there are the terrified hate-songists, who draw the line between us and them along lines of religion and origin, who try to convince us that they are not part of the Dutch way of life. Never. Those who even want to amend the Constitution in order to exclude them from it. On the other hand, there are the irreconcilable ones, who permeate the Moroccan or Turkish Dutch every day that they will not be part of it or should not even be part of it. As my colleague Mohammed Mohandis recently sighed: for ten years Wilders, proud Dutchman, has tried to marokkanize me; he has not succeeded, and now DENK tries again. The treitervlogger in Zaandam has in our Chamber with treiter-PVV and treiter-DENK two allies in cross-standard and polarizing behavior. On the contrary, we must strengthen the connecting forces and, with pride and self-confidence, open up the Dutch way of life to everyone. But, as I say to the Prime Minister, we are not going to get there with a Prime Minister who has grown the past from 'be normal' and 'be normal' to, five years later, 'fuck off' and 'no, fuck off'. It is shabby and it does not contribute to the connection if you reject the PVV plans to undermine the rule of law rather beautifully but seek the same undermining through amendments to international treaties themselves. And you create uncertainty about the future if you just leave the door to the PVV ajar. Are we sure that the PVV will not end up in the car if the Prime Minister gets the key again? And where are they going? It's clear to us where to go. We must go to the Netherlands where an electrodoctor does not have to despair about the future of his mbo-2 youngsters. That starts with education itself. Education is traditionally our just uplifting machine that enables us to achieve equal opportunities for everyone, so that everyone can climb the ladder, regardless of your origin or the thickness of your wallet. Can we continue to deliver on that promise in the future? Children of highly educated parents come back from vacation with two IQ points higher, while children of low-educated parents with two IQ points lower return from vacation. Children of parents with high education receive high school advice, while children of parents with low education receive lower school advice at the same score. Those are facts that keep you quiet. An inequality like this is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u394	Let me interrupt, because it's a little noisy in the room. Mr Samsom continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u395	Our mission is clear. Our education needs to be even better, and we need to start doing so next year. Extra money is being made available for education. I was just talking about this in an interrupting debate with Mr Pechtold. I'd like to know from the government exactly how she's going to use that money. As far as we are concerned, all the means to give children equal opportunities are at stake. But education alone is not enough. A government must also actively help shape a society in which there are enough jobs for every level of education and in which employers are willing to give space to everyone. You can't just leave that to the market. With the Dutch Investment Institution, the government took the first steps towards such an active role during this period. In this Millions note, the cabinet announces the arrival of a new financing institution. That is good, but it also makes you curious, because what exactly does the government intend to do? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it is time to throw away all the brazenness for a sustainable investment policy and to create a real investment bank. After the economic recovery, the switch to investment with a second energy agreement can be made as a follow-up to the successful first agreement. Under the climate law, we are going to invest long-term and large-scale in a sustainable future. This is good for the environment, good for our economy and good for the future. In the Netherlands of the future, good solid work is the norm. We must fight the ever-increasing flexibilisation. Flex contracts sometimes seem like the new normal, but it's not a natural phenomenon. You can do something about it. Everywhere that works, you see the benefits, not only for the employees, but also for the employers. Stability, loyalty and security are so much more important to the labour market than flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u396	Agreed. What are we going to do about that in the next few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u397	I will explain one of the things I would like to do in the coming months. However, it depends a little on whether the social partners want to continue working. I know you're not a big fan of that, but they're really part of it. We are still waiting for an opinion from the Economic and Social Council on, for example, better protection of the self-employed and a payment of wages in the event of illness. There's got to be something to do at that point. You also feel that something could be done in this area, for example better protection of the self-employed against incapacity for work and a different type of pay payment in the event of illness. The latter currently hinders small employers and makes them anxious to hire new people. Mr Buma and I called on the social partners before the summer recess to get out and work on it quickly. We also, of course, indirectly called on the cabinet to start working on this right away. If we can do that, we can, as far as I am concerned, work on it during this period. I immediately acknowledge that some things go slowly and are complicated, but let us hope that the ESC produces an advice that we can get started with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u398	Like Mr Samsom, I'm a big fan of the polder. That's what I'm known for. But I don't always want to wait for that. I see an opportunity for politics here. We can say, boys, come on! I agree with Mr Samsom, in particular on paying for illness, SMEs and the second year. Apart from the ESC, we also know what can happen there. I am also with Mr Samsom looking for the whole law. The law has been in force for a year now. The Minister keeps saying, "Wait a minute." But that law just doesn't work. It slows down. I would very much like us to do what we have agreed, namely to ensure that more permanent jobs are created, this cabinet period. We shouldn't make that something you can immediately admire in the museum, but what no one has left. Do I find Mr Samsom by my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u399	I'm not sure what you've agreed to with yourself. We have agreed in the Chamber under the Work and Security Act that it will be a little less expensive financially to say goodbye to employees, but there must be a good reason for that. Yeah, that's what I'm standing for. If you can just discharge people on an arbitrary basis, that is not a social labour market. We stand for the social labour market, so yes, those conditions are in the law and remain in the law. I'm not taking back a letter from that. That piece looks like a house to me. If employers do their best, they can say goodbye to an employee and then it costs a little less money. That was the breakthrough we wanted to achieve. The other breakthrough I already felt when presenting the D66 election programme was more permanent jobs. But those are permanent jobs that you can just say goodbye to. That is a complex definition issue for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u400	No, not scary. I'm trying to avoid that, too. We're trying to get back to the facts. Look at the countries around us. Then you can see that in other countries the share of permanent jobs is growing. But the Netherlands has a rigid system. We wanted to give the new law a chance. We've been thinking about it. But now it turns out it doesn't work. You will say in a moment: permanent jobs have been created. Yeah, I think that's about 15,000 jobs. But the number of flex lanes was about five or six times as many. You are now also in a state of hope against that system. This law does not break the contrast that is now emerging in the labour market, between young and old, between low and highly educated. That's a plea you're making yourself. We can tackle this contradiction if we work together here and put Minister Asscher to work. That's the first job!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u401	Yeah, he does. Maybe I was a little too suspicious about the announcement of your election program. If you want us to look together at ways to improve the labour market and to achieve more solid work, really solid work, and less flex work, I am your husband; whether you work mine or whatever. Let us then put aside all the taboos and see if we can move forward. With Mr. Buma it was also possible for the summer. We still have to see if the result gets, but we agree on the intention behind it. Maybe we can do it here, too. Anything to ensure that this labour market becomes more decent, that good work becomes the norm and that permanent work is counted again. I do hope that we can get on with that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u402	But not through the fear-making of the employer who throws people out at random, because you can always go to court, even in the plans presented by D66. Will Mr Samsom also be able to talk about the idea of a word that is almost pushed through the labour market like a hot potato and which is forced through the law of dismissal? This will allow us to create contracts for an indefinite period of time for a new generation. It should not become a museum piece that is less and less accessible for the people, especially those who are trapped and who are dead to lose such a job. That is my question to the leader of the PvdA. Don't charge and say you'll get fired at random. No, then there's always the judge. Let us please ensure that the number of permanent jobs, the number of contracts for unpaid time increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u403	I'm not so easily jumping over the difference between a preventive test and a judge's judgment afterwards. It is not my fault that this is deep in the Labour Party, and I am proud of it. But I also think you might want to take a look at a law that hasn't changed in 70 years. Your colleague Bert Bakker has always broken the staff that in 70 years nothing had changed about the right of dismissal. Now we've changed something about the firing right, and within a year, D66 says, "Well, that's not gonna work." Maybe we should give it a chance. And the second thing I would like to ask Mr Pechtold if we continue to work together is to look a little more broadly at the Wwz, not only at dismissal law, but also, for example, at the way in which the transition fee or the chain clause was designed. You see, we've come a long way. If you look a little wider, anything can happen. But give that law a bit of a chance, too. Give that law a chance to show what Mr Asscher has been predicting for some time, namely that the number of permanent jobs is increasing. By the way, it is also increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u404	Mr. Pechtold, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u405	Very briefly. Yeah, so build the transition fee from day one and not after two years, giving you all those flexway kicks and payrolls. That's what we're gonna do. But then again, I do not hear the taboos anymore. So also on the PvdA side, with that key, no taboos. Cross fair and square.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u406	I remember we went along with the social agreement. You finally supported that fall package. That went the same way: no taboos. I think some phones have been tossed back and forth, but they haven't hit a target in any case. At least he was wrong with me. But for the rest, that went very well. Let's see how far we get. I'm also a realist and I foresee that if you want to do that and you involve the social partners, you'll move towards the beginning of next year with a final choice. Actually, that's not so crazy either. Elections are about things, for example, about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u407	During the past cabinet period we have regularly tabled motions asking the government to come up with a climate law. The Labour Party has systematically voted against it. Now that the Labour Party has almost been ruled out, it comes together with GroenLinks with a climate law proposal. Greetings for that! I'm just wondering, why all the way to the end when you're not on the buttons anymore? There was a majority in favour. We could have settled this issue in a climate law four years ago. Why didn't Mr Samsom do that? He also knows that the climate is such an urgent problem that we don't have time to lose anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u408	We filed the bill. I note that we first had a disagreement about something we didn't do and now we're doing it too late. So we're making progress in this case. We've filed the bill and we'll try to get it through quickly if you cooperate a little. But I know your associates. They make quite a contribution when it comes to the written procedure. But if you moderate that a little bit, then we can go faster and then we can make it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u409	Mr. Samsom gives a nice summary. He won't do it or he'll do it too late. That's right. And that is precisely the big problem. We could have achieved a very green policy by a majority in this Chamber over the last four years. Mr Samsom and his group have made it known. As a former activist, he needs to know that climate change is not waiting for him. Mother Earth is not waiting to speak with the words of Mr Samsom. We must do something about climate change. So I ask Mr Samsom: does he have sleepless nights about the fact that he has completely screwed up over the last four years when it comes to green?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u410	No, because they're not completely screwed up. The climate law prepares the Netherlands for the period after the energy agreement, which was finally the first step towards a stable energy policy to achieve a sustainable future. The climate law must be ready in time to shape that second period of the energy agreement. I assure you that I am always too late in your eyes: it is not good or it is not good. In this case, we're just gonna get that law through in time. You always count only in the House of Representatives, but I have learned from experience, through damage and shame, that you also have to look after another Chamber very carefully. It will take our attention to get the bill through. That's what happens after the election. I'd say brace yourself and help you. Mr. Chairman. The reforms in care have been by far our most difficult task in recent years. Change of care creates uncertainty. Tough budgets strengthen them even more, while care is about vulnerable people. But anyone who looks carefully now, just over a year after the beginning, sees that a small revolution in care is slowly taking place. The ticking lists, the protocols of the Centre indication care disappear. The neighborhood nurse decides what is necessary. They no longer look at numbers, but at people, at the man who can no longer handle his insulin pen after a stroke. In the old system he had gotten rücksichtslos ten minutes of nursing a day, without any perspective. In the new system he gets an extra half an hour for ergotherapy in the first weeks to learn to hold that pen again so that he can do it himself at some point. That seems so simple, but it turns out to be very special. Just looking at what someone has and can and then together determine what the best care is, that's our ideal. That revolution doesn't go unpunished. I also saw the frustration of the neighborhood nurses and the patients if things didn't go well. The uncertainty, the budget cut, the layoffs that fell in the domestic aid. The work is far from finished. Over the past few years I have also had moments when I wondered if we were on the right track, but between all that doubt reverberated in my mind the sighing of Violieke, the neighborhood nurse that I was allowed to help every Friday for a year. She said, "I'm finally getting my job back." With the neighborhood nurse at the centre of care, we are on the right track. It just takes a lot more. Costing without market principles, less bureaucracy, even more room to make our own decisions: that is where we want to go. Anyone who sees the main topics of these General Political Reviews go beyond them: identity, purchasing power... I think Mr Roemer would like to ask a question about care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u411	If Mr Samsom really means the last three sentences in his care block, he will sign up for the National Health Fund, as many of his supporters have done. I want to bring back one topic, namely care-avoidance. Have I understood correctly that the Labour Party is also concerned about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u412	Yeah, we've been doing that the whole time. I know Lea Bouwmeester as someone who is looking for solutions to this every time, and in part also finds, in the form of municipal insurances for one's own risk, a higher care supplement, payment arrangements, all to ensure that we have as few care avoidrs as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u413	I got a bit of that impression, so expect the Labour Party to join us as soon as possible jointly to bring that own contribution down next year. I have the following question about this care-avoidance. I heard Secretary of State Van Rijn say on television that he wants to know why people have to avoid care because of the costs. What does Mr Samsom think of the letter that we received today from the Minister, saying that she does not need it at all and is not going to investigate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u414	I don't think he was talking about a formal investigation either. Mr Roemer often does not need that either in order to draw his conclusions and neither do we always. We can also simply see that the own risk has become too high in recent years and that it has increased further. It grew 60% between 2012 and 2013 due to the agreements in the Spring Agreement of GroenLinks, D66, ChristenUnion and a few other parties. After that, it has increased even further, but fortunately it has stagnated this year and we have raised the healthcare allowance every year to ensure that it has remained affordable for the lowest incomes. It may well be that we are going to make proposals in the electoral programme to reduce, or even significantly reduce, our own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u415	Nice talk for decoration, but people don't buy anything for that. First, a secretary of state on television says that something must be done if people are to avoid the cost of it. Next, the cabinet says: no, this is very, very united and we just keep it that way; we don't even have to do research. However, the Labour Party says it's actually too high and the entire party's supporters say so, but when the SP comes up with proposals to come out together, the PvdA says: no, it's all too difficult, we don't; we leave it up to the next cabinet and we'll look. And that while I like to work with the specialists of the PvdA all week long to see if we can find a cover for this that we can both agree to. Mr. Samsom, this isn't what people buy for. Finally, join whatever you find deep in your heart!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u416	I'm having some trouble with this. Mr Roemer says that these are talk for the often. We have had a little debate here this morning about Mr Roemer's healthcare fund. He said: it is calculated; 1.3 billion can be cut on bureaucracy if we do it as neighborhood care organises; look at the CPB overbooking. Mr Roemer didn't give it to us, but we've been searching all day and we've found his 1.3 billion-billion-dollar cover. That is the decentralisation of care by abolishing the right and introducing a provision for it. That is exactly what Mr Roemer is proposing, and that is EUR 1.3 billion. Not only has the SP resisted this in recent years, we have already realised it. That 1.3 billion has already been realized and Neighborhood care is now becoming the largest home care organisation in the Netherlands. On the other hand, Mr Roemer's 1.3 billion is a mirage, and the 2.5 billion that the SP collects from the profits of health insurance companies that are being lifted at the same time is just as much a mirage. So we already have a 3.8 billion fata morgana, and then the SP is also going to take 700 million from the pharmaceuticals. I would like to, but that requires European cooperation which the SP is difficult to find. In addition, you cannot write down in one line that you will deal with the pharmaceuticals. I don't write down in one line that I'm giving off counterwind on all bike paths, because sometimes it doesn't work that simple. You're really gonna have to do a few things, realize. So we have been standing here for five minutes and out of Mr Roemer's 4.3 billion there is nothing left. Talks for the often spoken and talk about deceiving people in the Netherlands. Mr Roemer says that there can be a care fund and that it can simply be paid out of a, b and c, while a is zero, and b and c as well. What's the SP gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u417	In Choices in Map it is exactly indicated. Mr. Samsom comes up with wrong things. Moreover, if he had tightened the medicine law with us before, we could easily have made it. If he himself had been looking into the care, he would have seen what the enormous bureaucracy in care brings about. We would have been able to do this long and wide, and then we could have done plenty of work on the increasing number of managers in hospitals, to which 290 million more has been spent in recent years, an increase of 50%. Mr Samsom may not want to see it or not want to read it, but that is his problem. His own supporters agree with me very much and the numbers are right. Mr Samsom could have joined in, but all these years he has chosen to throw it over the fence, to cut it sharply, to cut 80,000 jobs in home care, and then he doesn't give up at home now that we could have gone together to reduce our own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u418	I'd really like to read it to you. You referred to Choices in Map and your own plans for this, and I now read them to you: The SP wants long-term care to be arranged according to the principle of neighborhood care or low-level care. Isn't that right, Mr. Roemer? That's what you really want. I'm going to go on, which means that the right to care lapses. It is going to be a supply again and that will yield EUR 1.3 billion. That is exactly what this cabinet has been doing over the past three years and what you have broken debate after debate by the staff. Not only that, but you're just putting it up again now, when it's already done! That's kind of complicated. You can shake no now, but it just says here: 1.3 billion. I asked you for a bill this morning. You didn't give it to me, and I went looking for it myself. This is it or do you have an alternative, Mr. Roemer? Do you have an alternative to the 1.3 billion? Do you have an alternative to the 2.5 billion? Do you have an alternative to the 700 million? If you don't have it, I'd probably just sit here like you're doing right now. You should also tell the whole story about the healthcare fund on the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u419	The alternatives are available, also on nationalzorgfonds.nl. Since the debate, more than 6,000 people have registered because they recognise what has destroyed care in recent years. That is the market forces in the care sector, which has given the health insurance company a say in the office. The pharmaceutical industry has billions of profits on an annual basis, and the cabinet refuses to look at this over and over again. The broken bureaucracy is recognizable for everyone in the care. You now refer to reports and do not tell the true story! Everyone who works in care or depends on care recognizes this story. It is about the principle that market forces in care must finally be abolished. We have made a start and a start on this by removing the power from the health insurance companies and getting back to the government itself. That's worth billions. If you don't want to see it, it's more your problem. You do not want to get off the market and then what you say is indeed stories for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u420	You are doing exactly what is being done so cleverly on that website. Everyone recognizes this. I recognize it, too. Yeah, work in care every Friday, and you can see it. I recognize the frustration over bureaucracy, over too high own contributions and over too expensive medicines. In the end, in politics, it's about how to solve it. You have now undressed it to start a start for a care fund, but well: you come with a care fund. That's full of decoration on a website and you're asking people to sign for it. On the first page, you say: we eliminate our own risk. It's going like crap; I get that very well. And: we can just pay that, because 2.5 billion is taken away from the profits of the health insurance companies, which we then cancel out, so that at least that is no longer possible. We are removing 1.3 billion from a proposal, which we were opposed to, but which has already been introduced. And 700 million we take away from pharmaceuticals, but we do not support the way that should happen. I object that a party distributes free beer in this way and thus informs people. If you have a good plan to deal with market forces in healthcare, let's work together, because I have ideas about that too. Our party also wants to reduce market forces in healthcare and we are on our way. Then support those good proposals and do not talk to those who often deceive voters outside this house. You shouldn't do that. That doesn't grace the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u421	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u422	Mr President, I have 19.5 minutes left. Don't be alarmed, because I'm not gonna make it up. We're hungry! As I said, you would almost forget that we were here last year when the images of the chaos and the misery on the Greek islands and the Balkans occupied us every day. Hundreds of thousands of people in crummy boats, walking on the railroad tracks, looking for a good getaway. That was reality a year ago, without anyone having any control. It seemed like there was no solution to this. It also raised a lot of uncertainty and a lot of cheap politics over closed borders or about unlimited reception. A real answer was only possible with cooperation between European countries and between Europe and a neighbouring country such as Turkey; difficult, imperfect. In Greece, the asylum system is far from perfect at the moment, and much more is wrong in Turkey. But there is no alternative, because only in the way we do it now can we stop drowning and at the same time be merciful to refugees and regain control of our European external borders. Unfortunately, Europe is increasingly calling for the image of a tired old man who is dragging himself from crisis to crisis. That too must change. It is about more than simple regulation or compliance with agreements. Those are the mantras that this Prime Minister repeats every time, but I tell him: it's about more. It is also about a common European project, a Europe that wants to be more than market or budgetary discipline, a Europe that focuses on investment, on fair working conditions, on assertive attitudes towards free trade. Countries should not only deal with budget deficits, but also assist each other in the necessary changes and in investment. Not to allow workers to be played against each other, but to stand for fair and equal working conditions. Together close the gaps that allow multinationals to escape tax payments. Slowly, this approach is gaining support: a new common Europe that is serving its inhabitants. The PvdA wholeheartedly supports that course, and I trust the Cabinet will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u423	Speaking of Europe and free trade...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u424	Another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u425	Why does the Labour Party support free trade agreements TTIP and CETA? What does this assertiveness really mean about what Mr Samsom just said in his speech? CETA is simply signed without a hitch. The negotiations for TTIP are being carried out without hesitation, while massive demonstrations are being carried out, not only in the Netherlands but also in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u426	I don't know what your definition of "claps" is, but it certainly isn't. No, it seems to me that we have been those who have said, among other things, in this Parliament, but there are going to be more parliaments on this: this is not how we are going to do it. We are not going to conclude a free trade agreement with a private arbitration court, where all kinds of shady lawyers can make shady deals for multinationals. No, we're going to organize that in a public way. We had more notes on our vocals, and we still have those on our vocals. So we are also going to ensure that these trade agreements are fair. If they're not, we don't agree. We have also given ourselves the opportunity not to agree to it, which, by the way, would be a defeat for the world as a whole. But if it's a bad treaty, we don't support it. If it's a good treaty, we'll support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u427	Here Mr Samsom is late again, because CETA is already round. The negotiations can no longer be opened. This will mean that we will be getting genetically modified crops on the market through Canada, also through provisional entry into force, which the Labour Party simply says yes to. So it's too late, and it's clutterless. So I ask Mr Samsom once again: where exactly is this assertiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u428	Now you're just early, I'm sorry. Last time I was late, mea culpa, but now you're just too early. We are still in the process, and the last time it was said that there was no more negotiation, the Labour Party said: we will see that again. And then there was a re-negotiation, among others by our Minister Ploumen, who ensured that important changes are indeed and are still being made. Let's see what's gonna lie down later. I have no illusion that the Animal Party already has its opinion ready, at least, I suspect that it already has its opinion. We do not yet have that, because in the end we are in favour of a world that is working together, and one of the ways of working together is that you sell and buy things with each other. You'll have to do it properly. A new assertive attitude to world trade is urgently needed, because otherwise the people who can never reach the bottom sport of the ladder will always be screwed. But I think we can get there. At least I'm not giving up yet. I have the impression that you have already done so. That's okay, too. You can just vote against it, too. You'll get the chance. But we're still looking at it, and then we're judging if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u429	That own minister, PvdA Minister Ploumen, said that there is no longer any possibility of negotiations on CETA. We're gonna try and maybe stop something about that private court, so that it doesn't enter into force for the time being. Furthermore, however, the Netherlands and the farmers in the Netherlands have checked, because CETA will enter into force for the time being and all agricultural products can come on the market here, including chlorine chickens and also genetically modified crops. Mr. Samsom is late!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u430	And you're confused, because you're confusing a few things from TTIP and CETA. That's okay, because you're throwing it all together, but we don't want to look at it that way. The negotiating status of TTIP is completely different. America is also a completely different country from Canada. Those treaties also lay down other conditions. But this is taking quite a long time and I see the President looking at me almost tiredly. I'm trying to meet you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u431	No, this is a very nice debate. I don't think it's too long at all. I understand it's getting a little uncomfortable. The biggest problem with CETA is that a lot of American companies have subsidiaries in Canada. The CETA Convention is a route for Canada to enter the market in Europe. Mr Samsom is not aware of this and is too late to stop, but he should not blame me for being too early or wanting to continue this debate for too long. This is about very serious matters. I regret that Mr Samsom is going to laugh about this, but that is his right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u432	No, no. I admire your perseverance, let me put it this way with a smile. I tried to stay as neutral as possible. Canada is indeed a neighbouring country of America. They deal with each other a lot, but Canada is also a rule of law with its own rules. They look very different from those of America in terms of working conditions and the environment. There is therefore reason to look at that treaty in a different way. That does not mean that we approve it. We'll see about that later. We need this cooperation Europe very much in a world of tension and conflict, such as the war in Syria, which has already claimed so many victims, where the last glimmer of hope for a ceasefire has been destroyed again in recent days, and where the troops of Assad and Putin are now bombarding even the aid workers on their way to the contained civilian population of Aleppo from the air. That's shameless, that's a war crime. It just seems to get worse there. We have to do something about that. There too, cooperation in Europe is very much needed, because the European voice is needed in that conflict. With the news of conflicts elsewhere and the threat here, I always think of the thousands of people working on our security: here in The Hague on our doorstep, every day, far away in Mali, Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia, South Sudan and many other dangerous places, in dangerous conditions. They are our heroes and I would like to thank them very much for their commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u433	I'm rounding up. Four years of Rutte/Asscher cabinet was four years working on the recovery of the Netherlands: two parties who have little in common, but found each other willing to cooperate in the interests of this country and its inhabitants. In recent years, the Netherlands has shown that it thrives in a policy of consultation, of compromise. It is precisely in a time of growing hardening and mutual distrust that there is a need for parties who are willing to listen to each other and accept a piece of each other equally. I see a tendency to carry one's own harder and harder. But if everyone starts screaming, no one will hear each other. There is no shortage of megaphones of discontent; there is a lack of nuance. The Labour Party will always stick to the style in which you want to reach out to each other to move forward, because the alternative, polarization and stagnation will affect those people for whom we went into politics. I sincerely hope that the cabinet in that spirit will continue to work hard for six months in the interests of all those who want to move up that ladder towards a better future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u434	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wilders. Or did Mr Pechtold have another question for Mr Samsom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u435	Well, Mr. Samsom said half an hour ago: I'm hungry. Now the one comes from a tradition of 17.00 hours the potatoes, but even in other traditions 18.30 hours is quite late anyway. We had a very early lunch break. I'd like to ask if we could have dinner right now. Maybe a little shorter, but now, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u436	I agree with that. Let's also give the staff that we hold on to normal times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u437	We're gonna suspend for an hour. So I propose to give Mr Wilders the floor. Then we're gonna suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u438	Not because I've just been myself, but I see and feel around me the need to suspend now. But I don't want to debate a suspension. My group would appreciate it if the staff could just keep the working hours that it has and that you suspend now. But it's up to you in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u439	It's up to you, Mr. Chairman. It just means that I speak an hour later, somewhere in the night. I don't care. I think it's a good idea to suspend now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u440	I give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u441	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President. We're losing our country. For good, if we don't wake up real soon. The open borders and the unwillingness to defend the identity of our country have made the Netherlands sick. Dead sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u442	Not to be faint, but can the volume button go down a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u443	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u444	To reward that, I'd like to start again, Madam President. Madam President. We're losing our country. For good, if we don't wake up real soon. The open borders and the unwillingness to defend the identity of our country have made the Netherlands a sick country. Dead sick. The threat of terror is greater than ever. The Netherlands is no longer a safe country. We've brought hundreds of thousands of people into our country without telling them it's our country. That's what we're paying the price for right now. But the Netherlands really is ours. Many people also have a Dutch passport in addition to their Turkish or Moroccan passport. But some of them don't behave like the Dutch. We can see it every day. They don't respect our country. They don't care about our values, our identity, who we are. They are increasingly acting like rulers, criminals, profiteers. They're taking the blood from under our fingernails. They defy authority. They dance to police cars. They're calling us names. They look down on us. They spit on us. They don't care about anything. They have our passport, but they're not with us. They're not Dutch. I say to all those people who are misbehaving: The Netherlands is our country. It's ours and not yours! If you don't want to behave, if you want to terrorize us, if you want to make this a small Turkey or small Morocco, you won't, because this is our country. Where we are tolerant, but not to those who destroy our country. Where we respect every individual, but not people who use violence and terrorize us. We are the Netherlands and this is our country. We're gonna take that back. Starting today. We are no longer going to allow our women, our daughters to be harassed by you, that our neighborhoods are being terrorized, that our stores are being robbed, that the elderly no longer dare to go around, that balconies are being thrown eggs and glasses at us, that our benefits are being abused by guests in fat BMW's, that the Netherlands is being destroyed. We're not gonna stand for that anymore. Enough is enough! As of today, we'll fight back. Hard as hell. No more community centers. No more unjustified benefits. No more victimization. Definitely not understanding anymore. As far as I am concerned, we will take the Dutch passport from anyone who has two passports and commits a crime, and we will expel them from our country, if possible with their whole family. Where necessary, if the police can't handle it anymore, we'll put in the army to make the streets of the Netherlands safe and drive you out of there. 'Cause we're gonna win. Not you guys are gonna win, but we're gonna win, 100%. Why? Because this country is ours. For 12 years I have been announcing in the General Reviews, and in virtually every debate outside this Parliament, and indeed throughout the world, that the imported problem is called Islam. Islam has been brought within our gates by mass immigration. Western governments, including ours, have been complicit in this over the past decades, with their repulsive ideology of open borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u445	The last time Mr Wilders called for resistance, people stormed council halls and were attacked by azc's. Now he says again that we must resist, that we must not take it anymore and that we must fight back. For the record, he means that this must be done without violence, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u446	Sure. What I'm saying, and what I'm advocating all day, is that we should finally learn not to accept that these people are ruining our country. That if you commit a crime, a violent crime or any other crime, and you have a dual nationality, we'll take it away and expel you from the country. We should have done that ten years ago. If thugs aren't even arrested, or if they're taken to the police station, and the person reporting them is on the station any longer than the person who committed the crime, they're proud of it. People talk to friends about that: that he was detained and imprisoned and released within three hours. That's what we need to change. If you don't behave in the Netherlands, you get out! That's what we have to do!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u447	What are we going to do about those cookies that have listened to Mr Wilders and attacked azc's and interrupted council meetings? Then what do we do with that? Are we gonna throw them out of the country, too? Come on, Mr Wilders, people born here are Dutch. We deal with these people under criminal law, whether you're a Dutchman, a Turk or a Moroccan. I don't care what your lineage is: if you do something wrong, we'll take it. You should, Mr Wilders, but again you do not. You blow up, but you don't solve any problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u448	No, this is our country. This land is not theirs. This country is not of that fifth column that has lived here for generations and still stands on the bridge with thousands of flags in Rotterdam, or dances on the cars in Zaandam. This isn't their country. This is our country. And if you misbehave here and you have another passport, we'll take your Dutch passport and we'll drop you off. That is a matter of common sense; we should have done that a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u449	According to Mr Wilders, is this also the land of hundreds of young people in Amersfoort throwing stones at the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u450	Throwing stones at the police is always wrong, whoever does it. I am not saying that there are no Dutch who use violence. Of course it is. I am not saying that only the people of dual nationality use violence. Of course it's not. But they're overrepresented in crime statistics. When it comes to violent crimes and street terror, Moroccans are 22 times more likely to be suspected of a crime than Dutch. That goes for Turks, for Somalis, for all of them. So we're gonna have to take them harder when it comes to keeping our beautiful country safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u451	My question was: are people throwing stones at policemen, people with an ancient Dutch background, also Dutch according to Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u452	They're Dutch. They're criminals. They need to be dealt with hard. But people who are overrepresented in our crime statistics, such as Turks and Moroccans who have dual nationality, we must say that they are no longer welcome here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u453	In the past, Mr Wilders often indicated that he was not about the people, about Muslims, but about Islam. Here he clearly states that he is dealing with people of dual nationality. I see a distinction being made between people with a single nationality and people with a double nationality. This is the most open form of discrimination I see here in the Chamber, but we all allow it. We say, 'We must ignore it, we must not speak of it; let him rage out.' But we've been allowing it together for years. This will make our country worse. This makes our country uglier, because the Netherlands is also my country. The Netherlands is also the country of all those Turkish Dutch, of all those Moroccan Dutch, of all those people with a different background. I'd say get used to that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u454	The Netherlands is not your country. I told you that two weeks ago. You are defending Mr Erdogan. You're defending those people on that bridge, those Grey Wolves, those Hamas people. At least, you don't distance yourself from that. You have been asked this 100 times by colleagues and by me. So it's not your country. It would be a good thing if you turned in your passport and went into Parliament in Turkey with Mr Erdogan. Then you can go clap there. That's what you should do. And in the case of dual nationality, that distinction is already there. This cabinet of VVD and Labour Party has a bill stating that you can take away the passport of double-national terrorists and that you can turn them off. Well, that distinction, which this cabinet already makes, I haven't heard you say that this cabinet discriminates, and I would also like to use it for the people involved in street terror and crime. I can't believe I still have to ask that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u455	I have done so in the course of dealing with these legislative proposals, but this is what we are dealing with here. We see that happening over and over again: The Netherlands is the country of all those people with a different background who are also Dutch. Fortunately, in the Netherlands, it is not Mr Wilders who decides who is Dutch but the law. That is Article 2 (1) of our Constitution. If we are talking about upholding our constitutional values, I would say that Mr Wilders could learn a lesson from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u456	For 12 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u457	Finish your sentence, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u458	I'm starting a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u459	I do not like to do it, because I think Mr Kuzu has very strange ideas, but I want to defend him. Here one parliamentarians says that another parliamentarians are not Dutch, that this is not his Netherlands, that he is unworthy of the parliament and that he has to hand in his passport. That is a gross disgrace, Mr Wilders. You shouldn't do that. Mr Kuzu, however crazy his ideas may be, is a Dutchman and he remains so. We will fight him on all the strange things he says, but the fact is: he is and remains a Dutchman. You should respect that, as we all think you have very strange ideas, all of us defend the right to proclaim them here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u460	No, I'm thinking differently, as I just said. For twelve years now, I have been putting hope and optimism in front of that obstinate capitulation culture of those in power, who do not want to listen or who suddenly promise golden mountains in election time, but who, after the elections, will rule again with their arch enemies and bring new misery, terror and asylum records, who always opt for their own power rather than for the Netherlands, who seem to have no principles, drunken of their own right, convinced of their own superiority. And anyone who has criticism and dares to name Islamization as a problem, they call it "extremely right," "tokkies," "populists" or "nazis." The critics are also threatened, denounced and, if possible, brought to justice, including me. The day after tomorrow, Friday, when the rest of the colleagues are in bed after enjoying this debate, I am again in front of the judge in Amsterdam. Half of Europe is on fire. Our Prime Minister calls for "pleur!" To the Turks. European Heads of Government, such as the Slovak Prime Minister Fico, simply say out loud that they no longer want Muslims in their country. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Prime Minister Rutte is sitting next to the man at the European summit. But I have to answer to the criminal court again on Friday for something that millions of people think and find, while the terror threat in the Netherlands has never been as high as it is now. While almost 80% of Dutch Syrians are Moroccan. While all this is happening, an elected representative of the people is being prosecuted for his statements. Big words here about freedom of expression, but that is the reality. It's the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u461	For the time being, the debate is still about Mr Wilders' ideas in the Chamber and he is here to answer and I have a question to ask him about religious freedom. It is clear that Mr Wilders wants to restrict religious freedom for a population group, namely Muslims. That's a clear statement. We know Mr Wilders' position on this. But now Mrs Thieme has announced that she is again putting forward an initiative proposal for a ban on ritual slaughter. Recently I spoke to Chief Rabbi Jacobs of the Jewish community about this. He said in that conversation, for us, that's "to be or not to be." For orthodox Jews, the freedom to apply the ritual slaughter is there or there aren't. What will be the voting behaviour of the PVV under that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u462	We will have to discuss this as a group, but Mr Segers knows that we voted for it with conviction last time. Whether it is animal suffering added by the Jewish community or by the Islamic community, we will have the resistance against the suffering of the animal prevail. We made that choice last time and, as far as I am concerned, we will make it again next time. But we will discuss that again in our group when the legislative proposal is in place. So I cannot yet give a definitive opinion on it, but Mr Segers can assume that there is a good chance that we will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u463	Rabbi Jacobs builds his hopes on parties who have said here and in the First Chamber that in this case freedom of religion is more important than the protection of animals and that therefore freedom of religion prevails. The balancing of interests is indeed complicated, but it is clear that the PVV Group, including with regard to the Jewish community, says that it will support that law again. Then the Jewish community will know what it is up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u464	You may indeed try to make it into a "Jewish community," but this is about the importance of the animal. The suffering of the animal is a reason for us to let that prevail. The unsaturated slaughter, the ritual slaughter, I do not know if you have seen how that is going for our group in Mrs Thieme's previous bill was a bridge too far, and as far as I am concerned, that is the case again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u465	It is a 400-year-old freedom that the Jewish community has always had and is being restricted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u466	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u467	But I will go one step further: the Christian Union Group and some other groups are concerned about initiatives that often come from D66. This concerns the Christian minority, for example the position of the Christian Church. This concerns address details that are transmitted, the Sunday Act and Sunday rest. I checked that list. Every time, you agree. When it comes to the tension between freedoms, in which freedom of religion is at stake, Christians are concerned about this, you are one of Mr Pechtold's best friends. Is religious freedom in safe hands with the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u468	In fact, freedom of religion is in better hands with the PVV than with the Christian Union, especially when it comes to the freedom of Christians. We defend the survival and importance of the Christian better than the Christian Union. On Twitter, I have sometimes called you a "fake Christians"; it would be cowardly not to repeat that here. I do not want to take anything away from your beliefs, so that was not meant to be too insulting, but I said that because you are an Islam friend. You're someone who wants to give Islam space. You are giving religious freedom as a Christian such a broad interpretation that you are the one who will ensure that the Christians, if Islam is in charge, have the most difficult time in the Netherlands. For I say to you: the people on Friday, the Jews, may be the first group to be victims if Islam is in charge, but the Christians are the second. You will be the second or the first to be screwed if Islam is in charge. The PVV is an ally of the Christians in the Netherlands. We oppose the Islamisation of the country, because not only the apostates, the Jews, the homosexuals and the women, but also the Christians will pay the price first. You can see it in the Middle East. It will also happen in the Netherlands. It's already happening in the Netherlands. I don't understand why we don't have you on our side. The Christians in the Netherlands can therefore vote better for us than for the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u469	Short reaction by Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u470	I do not know if Mr Wilders believes in God, but He is the one who judges whether I am a Christian or not. He's about that, not Mr. Wilders. The point is: who stands up for Christians? We want recognition for what is happening now with Christians in the Middle East. We call what ISIS is doing genocide. I still do not have the support of the PVV on that point. We want to welcome Christian refugees from the Middle East here. They flee the terror of a jihadist Islam. The PVV says: door closed, we are not a hospitable country for people fleeing from it. They can count on the support of the Christian Union and many other parties, but not on the support of the PVV. I find it bizarre that I should appeal to the Party for Freedom on the concept of freedom. Freedom is given not only to friends, but also to people you disagree with. That's freedom. That's the freedom I stand for. It would be nice if Mr Wilders too could stand for that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u471	It's not about people you disagree with, it's about an ideology that's gonna make you chopped up. That's what we're talking about. It's not a disagreement between GroenLinks and the CDA. Islam is an ideology that Christians do not tolerate and that from the past makes Christians pay taxes, which drives them away or kills them. That's what Islam does. That's what you import. When it comes to asylum policy, your party is just as left-wing as the SP or GroenLinks. There's no distinction. You are abandoning the Christians, Mr Segers. I fight for them, because I think I should stand up for them. I'm their ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u472	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u473	I'm being addressed here, so I'd like to respond one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u474	Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u475	The Christian who knocks here, who is the victim of ISIS, who has to flee with danger for his own life, who is in danger because of the cross he carries, what will you answer? You say, "Door closed, you're not welcome here." And that's called a friend of Christians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u476	Islam "Islam" means "subjects" here and says: we want to dominate here and we have shown in the Middle East that we will cut your heads off if you do not do what we want. Those Muslims, that faith, let you in here. And you dare to lecture me? You dare to take my measure? I'm better for the Christians than you are as a Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u477	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u478	We're at the end of the black summer of the jihad. In case one had forgotten what Allah's and Muhammad's supporters are all capable of and where our open borders lead, I'm going to get a look at the events of last summer. I think the victims deserve that. I also think that the Chamber and the Netherlands should hear every incident, because it is our reality. I have just said at the interruptions of my colleague Segers that it is a shocking reality. The truth of this summer is that every week, sometimes every day, sometimes twice a day, the jihad in Europe, the jihad in the West was run. What happened? I'll start on June 12th. On June 12, a 30-year-old Muslim killed 49 people in a gay bar in Orlando, Florida. A day later, on 13 June, a police commissioner and his wife were stabbed to death in Magnanville near Paris by an "Allahoe akbar" crying 25-year-old Frenchman of Moroccan descent. A few days later, on 29 June, three ISIS terrorists killed 45 innocent people in an attack on Atatürk airport in Istanbul; Muslims are also victims of Islam. On July 14, a Tunisian with a residence permit used a truck as a murder weapon on the promenade in Nice with 86 deaths. 86 dead! And ISIS immediately celebrates this attack by decapitating two French-speaking prisoners in Mosul, Iraq. Four days later, on 18 July, a 17-year-old Afghan asylum seeker chops, while he also calls "Allahoe akbar," in Heidingsfeld, Germany, with an axe on train passengers and injures five people, three of whom are seriously injured. A few days later, it's July 19th. A Moroccan named Mohammed B. stabbed a mother with three daughters, including an 8-year-old girl, in a French holiday park. Three days later, on 22 July, an 18-year-old German Iranian, with a double nationality, shot nine people dead in a shopping mall in Munich and injured 36 others. Two days later, on 24 July, in the German city of Reutlingen, a 21-year-old Syrian asylum seeker killed a pregnant woman with a machete and injured two others. On the same day, July 24th, a 27-year-old Syrian refugee, Mohammed D., blows himself up at a music festival in the German town of Ansbach. On July 26, two Syrians cut the throat during a divine service an 85-year-old pastor, I repeat: an 85-year-old pastor, screaming "Allahoe akbar." That was in a church in Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray in France. So that's what happened during the service. One day later, on July 27th, in Troisdorf in Germany, a pistol falls again! "Allahoe akbar" calling for a surgeon with a knife and wants to decapitate him. On August 4, a 19-year-old Somali who had emigrated to Norway stabbed a woman and wounded five others at Russell Square in London. Two days later, on August 6th, in Charleroi, Belgium, a 33-year-old Algerian police attacked with a machete while calling "Allahoe akbar." On 19 August there is another "Allahoe akbar" screaming man who stabs a rabbi in Strasbourg. That's all happened. On 30 August, a Danish Muslim born in Bosnia stabbed two police officers and a civilian in Christiania in Denmark. One day after, on 31 August, a 31-year-old Algerian in the French city of Toulouse stabbed a police officer with a knife in the neck. On 7 September, a Moroccan illegally stabbing two agents in Molenbeek, here just across the border near Brussels, in Belgium: one officer gets seven knife marks in the abdomen and the other one. On 8 September, three women led by ISIS were arrested in connection with a planned terrorist act and the discovery of a car with seven gas cylinders and several jerrycans near the Notre Dame in Paris. On 9 September, an "Allahoe akbar" hailing Salafist man attacks police officers in the Serbian city of Raška. A week later, on 17 September, a Somali attacked nine people with a knife at St. Cloud in the U.S. state of Minnesota. Same day, we've all seen it. Twenty-nine injured in an attack in New York by an Afghan. I had to make a selection. This isn't even the whole reality. I could have devoted my entire speaking time to what has happened in the West in the name of Islam in recent weeks, in recent months. The perpetrators are the same every time: Muslims, Islamic barbarians, headhunters of Allah. The victims are also the same every time: innocent people, Muslims and non-Muslims, who did not ask for this and we, who certainly did not ask for this imported misery. We also see increasing violence in our own country, from Poelenburg to Spijkenisse. Around the Ramadan we saw how stones went through the windows of buses, how Dutch people in their own country, often for drinking water during the day, were harassed, how cars were set on fire, how women were harassed. Just a few weeks ago, a 17-year-old girl from Kampen on the verge was raped by an asylum seeker. Why isn't anybody talking about that? In Deventer, an asylum seeker tried to rape a six-year-old girl. Why isn't anybody talking about that? Holidaymakers stood in line at Schiphol for hours because of the jihad. Even the Efteling may have been a target. The great massacre, that terrible massacre at the airport and in the Brussels metro, turned out, as we understood later, actually planned for our country. It should have been a massacre of Dutchmen. Future generations will look back. They'll look back on what we've done, on what this cabinet has done. Their judgment will be tough and tough. We've had the mind at zero. We have not listened to reality. We have looked the other way politically correctly, otherwise we could be criticized. What did this cabinet do? It didn't do anything! It has removed the criminality of illegality. It's cut off the alien detention. A new general pardon has been introduced, a bed-bath-bread arrangement. We've broken asylum records. I remember standing here last year and saying that there was a great danger in that asylum stream that terrorists would come with it. I was hoarded! That was even done by a D66 MEP. I was called some kind of idiot. She tweeted that this Wilders guy was crazy, that there was no evidence of it and how. And what does it turn out to be? It's happening! It happens more often than we think. There have been attacks in Paris and Brussels by people we now know have been hitched on the asylum influx. I said it and they didn't want to listen. Innocent people have been murdered! That is the reality. Why isn't anybody talking about that? In this election year the differences have never been so great and the contradictions and disappointments have never been so clear. I know what needs to be done. I see what's happening demographically. Look at Africa. Africa's gonna explode demographically. By the end of this century, 4 billion people live there. Even the European Union expects 1 million migrants per year from now on. I don't even blame those people. I understand they want to come to us. But we can't handle that! We don't have the money for it and they often bring a culture that isn't ours. Many of them want to dominate us and use force to do so. We cannot allow that. It's not just about identity or standards and values. It's also about the numbers. If we allow hundreds of thousands, millions of people from another culture into our country, people who hate us, people who hate our lifestyle, people who hate it when a woman walks in a short skirt, people who do not want gays to walk hand in hand, the Netherlands disappears. If we don't do something about it, we're gonna lose our country. Why isn't anybody talking about that? Why don't we talk about that? That's the problem. We have an existential problem. If we don't do something, we won't survive. Then be colonized. Then we'll be Islamized. Then people later say: if only we had done something, we should have listened, we should have done something! Why isn't anybody talking about that? We don't want that. We don't want any more jihadists. We don't want Erdogan's long arm. We do not want to be dominated by a culture that is not ours. 1 million people a year! It is incomprehensible what will happen if we do not. I told you, we have to protect our country. We have to make sure people respect our rules. We must ensure that this ideology of hatred and violence, precisely that ideology, which is contrary to the Constitution, is no longer established here. And there's no middle ground. By dragging away, by doing nothing politically correct, it is actually already five or twelve. I say to you: if we do not act now, if we do not close our borders now, if we do not throw cultural relativism away from us now, if we do not make ourselves proud again of who we are, and if we do not, if we do not do so, if we accept that people are making fun of us, terrorizing us, raping our women and doing what we do not want, then we are done! Either we deal with Islam, or Islam will deal with us. That is why we have made our proposals of closing borders, stopping mosques and the other proposals you know about us. Criminalize illegality. Send asylum seekers back. I've mentioned them here so many times that I don't have to repeat them, but they have one thing in common. Our proposals have one thing in common, and that is that only the PVV proposals protect our rule of law. Only our PVV proposals guarantee that the Dutch people will still exist in a while. Because if we fail, it's over with the Netherlands. Our civilization will be gone. Our freedoms are a waste of time. Our safety is gone. Our lives are worthless. Our rule of law was thrown into the trash can. Our freedom is gone and the Netherlands is gone. That's what we need to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u479	When, as usual, you fulminate, the question is always: how do you trust someone who does? That's by looking at how he acts when he's on the buttons himself, when he has to do something himself. How can you say that the whole world has to be different and different when you're ruling your own fraction as such a mess? You insult your own people and create an election program that is a rag of an A4 and can't do that, and which you don't even give your own people a say in. I'll make a call to you. If we, as politicians, want the Netherlands to trust us, we must start by setting an example ourselves. Then you shouldn't be a massacre among your own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u480	With my proposals I prevent a massacre among my own people. It is very cheap to start, if I have a vision of Islam here, with regard to what is happening or not in my group. I won't go into that either, no matter what you ask. I will not go into that. What happens in my group is none of your business. But it would really be a pleasure for you to come with me, because you too have politically correct comments and try to lecture me. You are trying to involve my group and an election programme that people would or would not have seen. This is about the survival of the Netherlands! Don't be such a little man to come up with these kinds of interruptions!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u481	If you as a politician want to change the world in a certain way, you start with yourself, with your own environment. You are not even able to rule your own club in a normal way, and you are making an election program that is really a contempt for the Dutch. So you better hold this story against your own group than you do for the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u482	I really have nothing to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u483	Mr Wilders spoke just now about protecting the rule of law, for which the PVV has all plans. But to be quite honest, the PVV's plans are not so different from Erdogan's. In what way do you differ from Erdogan in all your plans to defend the rule of law, Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u484	In everything. In everything. Islam is breaking down our rule of law. Let me mention a number of articles of the constitution which are contrary to Islamic ideology. They're gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u485	But I asked what the difference is between you and Erdogan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u486	I'm about my own answer. Thank you for your question, let me mention a few articles. Take Article 1 of the Constitution, the prohibition of discrimination. Islam is discrimination. If you're not a Muslim or if you're a woman, you're worth half of inheritances or otherwise. The same applies if you are gay or Christian, so I say to the Christian Union. It's pure discrimination. We're talking about religious freedom. I don't see Islam as a religion. I see it as an ideology wrapped up as a religion. But suppose I would go with you and see Islam as a religion. Islam has no freedom of religion. There's nothing like Islam. We just had a discussion here in which colleagues asked where the church, the shuffle or synagogue is in Saudi Arabia. They're not here. Maybe there's one. But they're not here! They're not here! Islam is contrary to Article 6 of the Constitution, freedom of religion. I refer to Article 7 of the Constitution, freedom of expression. Criticism of Islam or merely depicting the so-called prophet Muhammad is punishable by death. Your head's gonna go off! Islam is contrary to Article 7 of the Constitution, the freedom expression. The same goes for Article 10 of the Constitution, respect for privacy; for Article 11 of the Constitution, the right to the inviolability of the body; for Article 15 of the Constitution, outside of legal cases, no one is deprived of freedom; for Article 16 of the Constitution, no offence is punishable... I can give you an example of which only Islam is flagrantly contrary. If you acknowledge that Islam is contrary to the Constitution, and you cannot but acknowledge it, we will have to de-Islamicise in order to protect the Constitution and preserve our freedoms. I predict that if we do not, our next generations will no longer be free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u487	In that batch of yours, you do everything on your own. I'm sure that's why you're quaking. But I have to be very honest: it doesn't impress me yet. I asked you what the difference is between you and Erdogan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u488	I just gave you the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u489	I can't tell the difference. Let's see what Erdogan's doing right now. He's firing judges. Mr Wilders says he wants to be able to fire judges because they are members of D66. Erdogan fires teachers. As soon as a school director or professor says something unkind about big smurf, Mr. Wilders immediately gets angry and shouts that they should be fired. According to Mr Wilders, Muslims should not be in the army because he doesn't trust them. That's exactly what Erdogan does. Mr Wilders, you are the Erdogan of the Low Countries. The worst thing is that you're trying to fight something you're introducing here. You're trying to destroy freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u490	Without the PVV and without our policy, we'll be led by an Erdogan immediately. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u491	Mr. Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u492	I'll show you what Erdogan does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u493	You're not showing me anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u494	And I'll show you what you're proposing here in the Netherlands. That's one-on-one the same thing. That is a violation of the rule of law. Go ahead, Mr. Wilders, you'll be fine. The only thing you do in case of trouble is not finding solutions, but looking for a scapegoat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u495	The only thing we are concerned about, the only thing I have gone into politics for, the only thing I stand up for every day, the only thing I have lost my freedom for a month or twelve years, is that the Netherlands remains a free country and opposes Islamization. You do that, you pay a high price for that. I'm not talking about all Muslims, I'm talking about ideology Islam. I am convinced that if we let that foot down, we will lose our freedom. The cabinet now thinks it's possible to spawn people with a party budget. But nobody's gonna buy it. There is a 1% increase in purchasing power, while the care is broken down, the own risk is €385, the rents have been increased and the pensions have been cut. The Netherlands does not fall for that. We have seen what the cabinet has done in recent months and years with pensions, rents, home care and so on. People don't believe this cabinet. People do not believe that this cabinet has the right thing to do with the Netherlands. Let me take care as an example. What have this Prime Minister and his cabinet done to take care of? They've closed down nursing homes. They've cut the housekeeping in half. They put their own risk at €385. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Rutte, more and more Dutch people are avoiding care, because they cannot afford their own risk, and are leaning ambulances with sick patients because emergency rooms are overcrowded. Madam President, it is unbelievable, but cancer patients are not always given the right treatment because the hospital has no money left. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Rutte elderly people in nursing homes are sometimes drugged to starve, to dry up and, above all, to unite, because there are too few nurses. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Rutte men and women of 70, 80, yes even 90 years old are confused and sometimes even half-naked on the street, because the help has been cut off. The way we treat our elders is a shame to you, isn't it? In short, Prime Minister Rutte's concern in the Netherlands has actually been broken down. It was embarrassing to hear such a beautiful story yesterday. We have to make the right choices. We need to make better choices. We have to look to the future. We must not only make the right choices, but also set aside the political cowardice and 'looking the other way', as we are doing now! Let me tell you what the future looks like to me. Unfortunately, it's still often a dream, because nobody wants to listen. But I hope people will listen. I dream of a Netherlands where schoolchildren are not pushed down Islam's throat. I dream of a Netherlands where women can choose their own clothes without having to wonder what intolerant Muslims think of them. I dream of a Netherlands where gays can walk hand in hand through the Schilderswijk and where Jews can walk through Kanaleneiland with a yarmulke. I dream of a Netherlands where Poelenburg, Wheatwijk, Oisterwijk and you name it, are safe again. I dream of a Netherlands where Black Pete can still be celebrated. I dream of a Netherlands where Ebru Umar is not pursued and betrayed by click-Turkish. What a hero that woman is! But why isn't anyone talking about that? Why isn't anyone talking about it? I dream of a Netherlands where Islam is nothing more than a nightmare that passed by. I dream of the Netherlands and I will tell you, Madam President, millions of Dutch people dream with me! That dream is once again shared by millions of people across Europe. I am convinced that this can be done in the Netherlands. My colleagues and I come here every day, because we are convinced that the Netherlands can be there, a Netherlands as it has always been. That is a Netherlands in which the Dutch are central and where we spend the money we are spending on immigration, asylum, Europe and development aid to the Dutch. It's crazy that I'm almost called racist when I say that I think we should spend our money in the Netherlands on our people! I can't believe it! That's what we want. How is it possible that asylum seekers in the Brabant Oisterwijk will receive a cheque of €10,000 to set up their homes, while 600,000 Dutch live in poverty? Am I crazy or are they crazy? How is that possible? What kind of madness is that? This is not happening in my Netherlands. And yes, in my Netherlands, we expel the people of dual nationality, if they commit a crime, from our country, because we choose civilisation. We choose the older one. We do not choose the breakdown of care. We choose the Dutch. This is what my Netherlands looks like. It is a decent Netherlands, but it is mainly a free and a proud Netherlands. It is a Netherlands that chooses its own people. Mr. Chairman. That is the future and that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u496	Mr Wilders, what makes you think after all these years and we have often met here that no one wants to cooperate with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u497	We'll have to see about that. We've got elections. I do not think that you, Mr Pechtold, but that the voter is ultimately in charge. A few years ago, when we tolerated a cabinet, there were also people before that, I think even you said: it's never gonna happen; forget it. We won 24 seats and we participated. Everything politicians said before turned out to be worthless at once. So, sure, I hear what people are saying right now. You're right about that. But don't trust them; don't believe them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u498	I ask Mr Wilders: could it have anything to do with demanding unlimited freedom for yourself for years when it comes to expression but others do not? Could it have something to do with you wanting to write everything down yourself, but you want to ban an old book? Could it have something to do with all of you wanting to make use of Dutch democracy but putting your colleagues away as a fake parliament? Could it have something to do with the fact that you want to be able to go to court yourself, but once you're challenged, you say the judges are politically coloured? Could it have anything to do with you, Mr Wilders, just scoring your own right at the expense of others? Mr Wilders, that may be a reason why you are a crying man. Could that be it, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u499	No, it couldn't be. When it comes to freedom, no one knows better than I what it is to lose it. I hope you and everyone else never get into such a situation. I fight for my freedom and I do it without compromise. I know what it's like to lose your freedom and I don't give it to anyone in the Netherlands. I want the Netherlands to remain a free country. I see two major dangers. The one great danger is the Islamization of the Netherlands and the lack of freedom. The second great danger is the Pechtolden and all the others here in this Chamber I will not repeat the word I have used with what we are ignoring here. You're looking the other way. You sell the Netherlands to Islam and the next generations, Mr Pechtold, will especially look at you when they see that we have lost the freedom we hold dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u500	Everyone in this Parliament is appalled that Mr Wilders is being threatened. Everyone in Dutch society is appalled by this. Everyone, all of them, is making sure that you can actually get that security detail. There has never been anyone who has doubted it, questioned it or anything else, because we grant you that you can say anything within the law. Mr Wilders, what you ask for for yourself must also be given to others. And then you can work together, and then you can't walk away if you get the responsibility once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u501	Precisely because I am giving everyone that freedom that I do not have; precisely because I want to keep a free Netherlands for everyone, the present and future generations, I will fight against the further Islamization of the Netherlands at any price, personally or not. That is the goal for which I am in politics; that is now the goal of my life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u502	Then why don't you start by not putting others away or making fun of them? Last time, I believe he said about the Prime Minister, he has blood on his hands. Now again he puts away a colleague with a faith like a fake Christian and makes a joke about it. The bottom line, Mr Wilders, is that what you accuse others of and what you demand from others does not apply to you. That is why a lot of people have trouble with your form of politics and why a lot of politicians say: I cannot cooperate with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u503	You're gonna have to work with me. You'll all have to work with me here, no matter what you think of my ideas. If you don't, and you're talking about the small policy of "you do this and you do that," I tell you, I'm standing here in front of my constituents. I'm standing here in front of the Netherlands. I am standing here with 17 million people, whom I am granting a free and democratic country, whose Constitution is not being destroyed. I do so in order to preserve the free Netherlands, Mr Pechtold, precisely because you are all politically correct and do not want anyone to tell the truth, that someone simply recognises what Islam stands for and how it reduces our country and every country where Islam becomes dominant. You're not blind, are you? If you want to preserve our country's freedom, you'll have to deal with it. Don't come, like Mr. Buma, with small politics. It's about the freedom of the Netherlands. It's not about what you give me and what I give you. It is about the freedom of the Netherlands! Islam isn't one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u504	Mr Wilders is talking about civilisation. Mr Wilders is talking about the truth. Where do you get, I ask a little sharper, the guts to claim the truth for yourself without a doubt? That is the essence of the problem. And where do you get the guts to claim alone the suffering of the past year that you described, which is horrible and for which we have had commemorations here? Where do you get the exclusive right to claim that and then say that anyone with such a background or who adheres to that belief is a suspect? No, Mr Wilders, that is not how we treat each other here in the Netherlands. That's the core value. You should do the same for yourself, just as you expect others to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u505	This isn't true. First of all, I didn't say anyone who believes is suspicious. I said the ideology is violent. I'll tell you why I'm doing all this and why I'm saying what you're saying, which is that we remembered it here, would be enough. I'd like to avoid remembrances here. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u506	Mr Zijlstra has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u507	Dinner break was postponed by you anyway. I have just had a debate with Mr Wilders. He says it's about the freedom of all Dutch people. If there is to be freedom for all Dutch people, a liberal party like the VVD is a huge supporter of it, because it is a characteristic of our society.All Dutch people who have freedom must also have freedom of religion. Mr Wilders is very clear today. He denied that freedom to the Dutch. If you deny groups in this country freedoms, that is the end of the Netherlands. But that's not what my question to him is about. Mr Wilders just said that it is the goal in his life to do so. I'm going back to those days in 2012. There are different views in this house, but there was a cabinet that was very keen about this discussion. Mr Wilders tolerated that cabinet. But he ran away. He indicated today that he was doing this because he found certain cuts somewhat difficult. But how is it that Mr Wilders ran away while there was a cabinet which was firmly engaged in what was apparently his life's work? So he obviously took advantage of another subject to avoid that responsibility. How can Mr Wilders prove that this is so important to him, when in 2012 he took off with his tail between his legs and the cabinet at the time was working on that very point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u508	The first point was not a question, and yet I am responding to both, because I think that is so neat in relation to Mr Zijlstra. The first point concerns the rights of all Dutch people. Islam is not a religion. Islam is a totalitarian ideology, dressed as a religion. That is why I have just mentioned all these examples of what has happened in Europe, and I could have continued for three days, from 9/11 to the seventh century, about what happens where Islam is in charge and how much violence, intolerance and hatred it entails. Nor do we accept temples or books of other totalitarian ideologies. We don't have any Nazi schools here either, and we wouldn't allow that either. Mein Kampf is forbidden in the Netherlands, for the same reason. In the Qur'an, that's what we've been investigating. There's more anti-Semitism than in Mein Kampf, and why did we ban one book and not the other? I am not from the department that forbids books and again, I have nothing with that miserable Nazism, but why should one totalitarian ideology not and the other should? That's incomprehensible. Then I come to Mr Zijlstra's second point, namely why we left. Some of the reasons were that it was not delivered when it came to development aid and that we could not, economically and financially, manage what we wanted, and that we did not want to accept it. I do not know whether Mr Zijlstra has seen the last ING report, which shows that the Netherlands has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs precisely because of these tough cuts and sticking to the 3% standard of the European Stability and Growth Pact. But perhaps even more important than that is that we saw that the Netherlands could not manage anything on the immigration dossier. Gerd Leers was the good man at the time, Minister of Immigration, traveled all over Europe to see if he could change certain guidelines for family formation and family reunification, but he could not. We were paying for reversals that we didn't want, and in the meantime, Leers got zero percent of what we would get in return, namely a strict immigration policy. Not only did we not want to go along with the VVD in destroying those hundreds of thousands of jobs, cutting care and increasing VAT, but above all we have learned one lesson: if you want to be sovereign again and tackle immigration and stop Islamisation, then you have to become a sovereign country again, then you have to be boss over your own borders and then you have to leave the European Union; that is the only solution to get that done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u509	Mr Wilders said at one point that he had a message of hope and optimism. That part got lost somewhere in his argument, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u510	Nice joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u511	... but you cannot maintain freedom in the Netherlands if you deny it to others. That's impossible. The Netherlands will be gone by then. All the previous speakers have referred to the dangers we all see in radical Islam, in extremist groups. No one is running away from that, so Mr Wilders must stop sketching the picture that he would be the only one to see it. The difference is that all previous speakers are not prepared to surrender our freedoms because of that danger. We are going to fight that danger, but not by surrendering our own freedoms. It would be good if Mr Wilders would acknowledge that if you take that step and start denying groups freedom, you yourself have already thrown the Netherlands in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u512	There is no radical Islam. That's a pleonasm, it means exactly the same thing. There are radical and non-radical Muslims. Yeah, there's that distinction, and you have to make that distinction. Not all Muslims are radical. You have moderate Muslims and you have radical Muslims and unfortunately there are many radicals. I have often mentioned here a study from 2008, from the University of Amsterdam, not the most right-wing university in the Netherlands, if they already exist. This shows that 11% of Muslims in the Netherlands are prepared to use violence in the name of a faith in the Netherlands. It concerns 11% of Muslims, so you have to do a study between radical and non-radical Muslims, but unfortunately 11% of Muslims in the Netherlands want to use force in the name of Islam. Why isn't anybody talking about that? But there is only one Islam. There was also no radical fascism and mild fascism. There was also no radical communism and mild communism. There's only one ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u513	The mild communists are sitting there now! If it's so important, I keep saying it, but Mr. Wilders was in a position to steer. The reality is that it doesn't always manage to get your way completely. Mr. Wilders can yell and scream nicely from the sideline here. That's what he's doing. But when he was on the buttons, he ran away. All these beautiful words... they weren't that beautiful, but all those harsh words that were spoken here are from a screamer on the sidelines that ran away when he could do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u514	No, those are words from a party that would do anything to turn the Netherlands into a free country, a safe country, and to keep it that way. It is a party that will not soon, as you have done, go with the PvdA to break asylum record after asylum record and which, like you, would not go with the Labour Party to allow terrorists to come along with the asylum influx. That's my party. We stand for the Netherlands and you do not. You stand before Mr Samsom, or I know what you stand for, but we stand before the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u515	The dream country that Mr Wilders sketches is a country where the Qur'an is forbidden, even in your election programme, and where all mosques are closed. I'm trying to remember, and I'm asking you to do the same, what that means. You say it's an ideology. I suspect these hundreds of thousands of Muslims will disagree with you. What does that land look like in which the Qur'an of those hundreds of thousands of people must be taken away and in which their church, in this case their mosque, is closed against their will? How's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u516	What it ensures is that the Netherlands will become an unattractive country for even more Islamics to settle down. What it will at least ensure is that we in this Parliament will not have a false discussion about the trick of the Labour Party: we are going to tackle Salafist Islam but not the rest. There's only one Islam! From the mosque and from that book, the Qur'an, people are summoned. If you like, I can name you all suras for 15 minutes, which you will also say should not be in the Netherlands. That book is being used and we would not accept it in the case of Mein Kampf. You would be the first to stand here. I hope so if there were a temple of Nazism somewhere where someone read from Mein Kampf. You would say: that is not possible. I tell you: scientific research shows that the Qur'an is more anti-Semitic and violent than Mein Kampf. We don't want that. We shouldn't want that. That's not extreme. Islam is extreme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u517	This is not yet the beginning of an answer to a question to someone who says he wants to ban the Qur'an in the Netherlands and want to close all mosques. I have a simple question. That's the Netherlands where is going to happen what you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u518	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u519	Exactly. But what does that look like when you have to take away that Qur'an among hundreds of people in the house and I don't know if that's going to have to shut down peacefully? Moreover, I wonder what the countries we blame for not allowing Christian churches will think of that. If you want others to come, I want to know how you're going to do it, knowing that a lot of people see it as a belief. Tell me that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u520	You know, I honestly don't care at all. Someone was talking about reciprocity this week or tonight. Absolutely right. Why should we have 500 mosques in the Netherlands if you are not allowed to have one church in Saudi Arabia? Total bullshit! Total madness! Total political correctness! But even if there were a hundred churches in Saudi Arabia, I wouldn't want mosques in the Netherlands because they are a symbol. They are a symbol of hatred and violence and oppression. If it means that they have to close and that people don't like it, then... we don't do anything to those people: we take away their prayer homes. You call it prayer houses, but I call it hate palaces. The sooner we do that, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u521	Remember what you say: we don't hurt people, we just take away their mosques. Then I have to think about what this would mean to me: we don't do anything about this Buma, but his church is closing. That's not normal!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u522	But it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u523	If you do, I just want to know about you... You don't want to say anything. You do not want to tell the Dutch honestly what the Netherlands is that you want, what it looks like, and I want you to say that. You say, "Close a mosque against your will." Are you going to send the police to all the mosques? Are you going to send the police to the houses to extract the Qur'an? If not, then what you say is just a farce closes the mosques and the Qur'an away. If you do, that's the honest story about your Netherlands. But I tell all those Dutch people who think that the story of Geert Wilders is so beautiful: in that country, where the police are deployed, you don't want to live.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u524	I think you want to live in that country. I think that's where you keep your freedom. You speak of the Qur'an. I suggest we do the same with the Koran as we already do with Mein Kampf. That is a book forbidden. I ask nothing more and nothing less than that we treat it the same. You don't come up with questions to the other parties who love it so much. That's exactly how we do it. When it comes to mosques: yes, Islam is in my opinion contrary to public order. Reading from a book full of hate and violence is contrary to public order. So no matter how you turn it around, we're gonna do it, Mr Buma, and the Netherlands will be a better country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u525	I'm going through with this interruption a little bit, because this does expose what that country really is. So far, I haven't imagined that you mean it so much. That's why I thought: I'm just asking; he won't mean it. But you really mean that the police in the Netherlands, if necessary by force, because of course it is not going to shut down mosques automatically, 300 or so, that should actually be left at home with people, with colleagues here in the Chamber, by the way, in my own house to remove a Qur'an. Do you know what you're doing with this country? It'll destroy the country. Then we say to Saudi Arabia: you must admit Christians, you must not persecute them. This is just the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u526	This is the only way to keep the Netherlands a free country. This is the only way to ensure that you and your family and our children and grandchildren remain free people. If we allow hatred and violence to be preached from mosques, if we allow Mein Kampf to be banned but simply spread the Koran, if we allow terrorists to go with the asylum flow, if we allow us to open our borders and those hundreds of thousands of people coming from Africa, then the Netherlands is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u527	It's called a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u528	It's called freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u529	I'm suspending the meeting until 8:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u530	We will continue with the General Political Reviews. I give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u531	Madam President. This spring I drove through Belgium, together with colleague Zijlstra, also fellow art lover. We came back from the festive revelation of the two Rembrandts in the Louvre: Marten and Oopjen. We took my car. I knew someone else on a plane, but fortunately the VVD colleague saved me from that. Of course I was the driver, but Zijlstra wasn't in the back seat, not yet. Our return journey was roughly interrupted by the Belgian highway. You know them: bumpy, messy and poorly maintained. It was the end of my gearbox and eventually my whole car. This summer I went to Normandy with my new occasion. I had considered going to the United States for a while, but before you know it, you'll end up there as a D66 man in the Clinton campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u532	Mr Pechtold, Mr Zijlstra is ready to say something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u533	As long as we're in the exodus, I also want to complete the image. Imagine stopping at a supermarket on the French motorway on the way back and seeing Mr Pechtold with a shopping list and Mr Zijlstra with a shopping cart following it. That too has happened!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u534	Not everything needs to be known! When I drove back into the Netherlands after this holiday in Normandy, I could not suppress a feeling of relief. Many people will have had this summer: somewhat melancholic because the holiday is over, but still oh so happy to be back home, where everything is just well arranged and well maintained, especially the road network. And even though the trains aren't always on time, if they're still standing still, that's for charity. That coming home after vacation is one of the rare moments when we realize how well we have it here. We are among the world's happiest, healthiest and best educated people in the world. Yet that is not what people get when they listen to some colleagues here, from blonde to red. They talk about our country as if it were hell and damnation. There are problems, of course; I'll get to that. But with all the freedom and prosperity we have in the Netherlands, we as politicians should not pretend to be one big mess here, as if we were on the brink of collapse. "The ruins of Purple" I already thought greatly exaggerated, "the mess of Rutte" as well. I wouldn't want to go beyond a mess called Rutte's mess. Look at countries like Turkey and Russia: once well on their way, but they slip into a dictatorship. In the United States Republicans are hoisting themselves in T-shirts which says "Trump Putin 2016." Closer, across the North Sea, the United Kingdom is a torn-up kingdom, a torn-up country. In Spain, people have to vote for the third time in a year, because parties do not want to cooperate. Because parties don't want to work together! So let's not talk each other into this, let's not draw a cloud of pessimism over the Netherlands, let's not abuse people's legitimate concerns for cynical electoral self-interest. I had a visit to an entrepreneur a while ago who said: The Netherlands is a country without a plan. And I see that as an encouragement. This may be the time for politicians to join forces, to set new goals together, to move forward, politics and society, because nothing unites more than a common goal. That's my core message today. This election year is about the future of the Netherlands. To the common future. To the ideal that as a country with so many different backgrounds, with so many different names, we want to offer opportunities to everyone. That ideal is under pressure. The economic crisis is behind us, but there is a new crisis: a crisis of opportunity. A growing division between people and between groups in society. That division is unacceptable. Especially if it comes from unequal odds. Older unemployed people find it harder to get back into jobs than others. Many young people do not get a permanent job and bump from one temporary contract to another. Do you have a foreign name? You'll get to the bottom of the pile faster in interviews. 2.5 million Dutch people are low-literate and therefore have less access to information. 400,000 children face poverty, one third of whom are for four years or more. Very good, the extra 100 million from the cabinet for this. A heartfelt compliment. Thousands of refugees are not allowed to learn the Dutch language from day one and therefore fall unnecessarily behind. The fact that Minister Schippers, as she calls it, wants this right-wing sacred house to be overthrown, and language from day one, is an important gesture to me. An important gesture, I say. Provided the VVD-list puller follows her in this, otherwise it's an empty gesture. Language is the basis for participating. Language is the ticket to work. Language connects, emancipates, integrates and so on. Discussions about the Dutch identity often get stuck in sharp contrasts, with the low point of that silly discussion this summer about the farmerkini. He hasn't much on his mind. But the Dutch language is something we share. What we need to share. "Whoever wants to build a future in the Netherlands must be prepared to learn the language and make an active contribution," said the King yesterday in the Throne speech. I couldn't agree more. But give these people a chance. Because if we can understand each other, we'll talk less about each other and more about each other. Thus, the fight against division and for greater equality of opportunity begins in education. From primary schools to asylum seekers' centres. From the consultation office, where there is already a chance to make the language disadvantage of the parents non-heritable, to the transport operator who finds out that his truck driver cannot read the ANWB signs. So we have to make the transition, from compensating people who don't come with us to pre-investing in opportunities for everyone. The 200 million extra from Minister Bussemaker, leaked prematurely, therefore seemed very nice. Until we saw the undrained parts of her budget. Because all of a sudden there's a lump sum target of 250 million and an estimate adjustment of 150 million. In normal Dutch: 200 million goes by and 400 million goes by. This estimate of 150 million will be completed in the spring note. After the election. So, in April, it suddenly turns out that schools get less money. I therefore appreciate Mr Samsom's hand-out. I see that invitation for a walk on the beach. But I say to the Prime Minister, explain yourself. Otherwise, we would like to delete this cut per amendment. No, Mr President, when it comes to education, I would like to show more ambition. Give all children, including parents who do not work, the opportunity to go to child care two days a week, to eliminate language disadvantages and to acquire social skills. That also saves such a CDA duty camp at a later age under the direction of Sergeant Buma! Together with the SP, my big red friend Roemer, we're going after the pop classes. Less than 30 students per class, that's the norm. And yes, that costs money. Lots of money. But it's the best investment we can make. I assume that the Prime Minister, also part-time lecturer, agrees with this. Do you mind if I fish over here tonight for his confirmation? Is success a choice? Yeah, for some. Is adversity your own fault? Sometimes, maybe. But the majority of the Netherlands lives somewhere in between and tries to make the best of it with more or less success. One deserves at least a fair opportunity to work and a fixed contract rather than a revolving door structure for temporary jobs: the elderly, young people, people with disabilities or people with a non-Western background. However, this is not entirely self-evident. "Go and fight," said the Prime Minister. But that's not a solution. Politics must also do something. Mr Zijlstra wants the Work and Security Act back to the drawing board. The Prime Minister recently told entrepreneurs that there are certain reservations about the law but not to go any further, because 'otherwise I will have a cabinet crisis'. But why wait? Why don't you get to work right away? It's not gonna happen with this cabinet crisis. I'm not so afraid of that. And when the cabinet gets back together, don't forget thezzp'ers. They have sleepless nights now many clients no longer dare to hire them because of that miserable new law, the DBA. I found Mr Zijlstra by my side this afternoon: these fines forzzp'ers are not going to happen, as long as the law is not right. Maybe we should go back to the VAR, but just to be safe, I want the same commitment from the top boss tomorrow, so that there is no more sleepless nights for thezzp'ers. This Millions note shows that the economy is regaining momentum and that public finances have calmed down. So you can see that political cooperation, as with the constructive opposition, is paying off. I would like to say to Mr Van der Staaij that you were happy to have such a "second love." However, the 2017 budget shows that the VVD and the PvdA are looking forward to each other. Major tasks, such as pensions, more permanent jobs and the tax system, are being pushed forward. There's just money being distributed. But okay, I have to say, that's not unworthy. We too are in favour of additional purchasing power. But in our counter-budget work continues to be rewarding and pays the polluter extra. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. After much opposition pressure, the Ministry of Security and Justice is finally put out of its misery. That's richly late, but of course we're happy with the extra resources for the district cops and the detectives. To the next cabinet, the ungrateful task is to repair six years of VVD damage financially, but certainly also legally, permanently. Defence is also in the price range; that too is absolutely fine. Some of the cuts in care are not going to happen. That is a wise decision. Less wise is the inimitable need of parties to harass care again with system changes and system discussions. You can always wake me up to a good idea about innovation in care that increases quality for patients and also saves costs, but spawn people not with the empty promise that care can be free. This so-called free care is also simply paid by people, with higher care premiums or higher taxes for everyone. Good care isn't free, so Els Borst already told us. Then there's something else I need to get off my chest. Are we really going to reverse all asylum facilities on the basis of a gambled deal with Erdogan? Are we going to fire 300 people at the IND, while 17,000 refugees still have to wait months for a decision? Are we going to close shelters against the will of mayors? We're talking about those tough drivers we yelled at last year, who, in our mission, defended the asylum shelter everywhere with blood, sweat and tears. Is that really wise, that bite-snap policy on such a shaky basis? There are contradictions to overcome, not only in the Netherlands, but also in Europe. Popularists destroy more than we like. That's how they pushed the British to the exit, but they ran away for the consequences. That's asking for power, but not knowing what to do with it. What a failure! Let the British clarify quickly, because uncertainty is also bad for us. The populists try to shake Merkel's courage in Germany and in France Marine Le Pen goes after the Brexit for a frexit. Can I say something politically incorrect? And to my Twitter followers I say: brace yourselves! We're staying for Europe, so there's no nexit here. We in the Netherlands can pretend to defend our interests against Russia, China or Erdogan, but that is nonsense. Everyone in this room knows that, but it is not everyone who comes out of that truth. As if we can fight the terrorism of IS on our own! The fact that Mr El Bakraoui could go through Schiphol to attack Brussels shows that European exchange of information is not such a crazy idea. And what can the Netherlands do about the refugee crisis? Only the European surveillance of our external borders and our European distribution of refugees can prevent dramas and unrest here. So no nexit. Weren't we all euphoric about this climate agreement in Paris last year, these shared ambitions? Historically, they were called. We can only keep promises to other countries if we take responsibility ourselves. Come on, let's get to work. We know what to do: investing heavily in clean energy, for example through a national investment bank which is also good for additional jobs. Where, for example, is the letter from Minister Kamp on the closure of these coal power stations, the bomber of climate change? That proposal from my group, which was fortunately supported by a majority in the Chamber, I would like to see quickly. Will the Prime Minister include that in his reply tomorrow? These are the last General Political Reviews of this cabinet. No one saw the cabinet arriving in the Netherlands except Rutte and Samsom. The campaign was full of harsh accusations and it seemed unthinkable that Rutte's right-wing bad policy and socialist danger could unite Samsom in one coalition. Yet the love of it splashed at the table with Pauw and Witteman. The rest of the Netherlands didn't understand much, because who is against the VVD had to vote for the PvdA and vice versa? From a campaign from "never with each other" to "never with each other," do we remember? A declaration of love for eight years. The gap between that love duo on the tube and the people on the couch at home has never been bridged since then. So how important is it as a party, as a politician, to be predictable, especially in campaign time and not to make promises from heaven and free beer if you throw it back in the trash a day after your election? That also saves you a public confession at the table at Matthijs van Nieuwkerk, although it was very entertaining to beg the liberal Rutte at a VARA headpiece for the mercy of the people. Of course we accept the Prime Minister's "sorry." So Mark Rutte's gonna tell the honest story from now on. "No more promises" is his first promise, to which we will certainly keep him, or the voter will. The same voter may, I am afraid, be deceived again by the Prime Minister's anti-Wilder talk, because the PVV will rule out 100%, even today; whoa! In the meantime, if he pushes out that hot potato of the Ukraine referendum, people won't like it either. The Prime Minister had already promised us a position three times before the summer, in the summer and shortly after the summer. This time I'd rather not get a "sorry" but just a proposal. Concretely: can the Chamber, can the Netherlands get a ruling for November? I look forward to the next five months. It's gonna be an exciting election battle. Until March 15th, nothing is certain, but then one thing is: we will have to work together, also because of the Upper House. A new cabinet awaits large assignments, for which only the plans of the left or only those of the right do not meet. I refer to the labour market, where an old left is taboo to adjust dismissal law and where conservative right looks dirty in dealing with cheap flex contracts. This, while both are needed. I refer to pensions, where polder and politics are stuck in old thinking and we do not come to more choices for people, while all generations are now losing confidence in our pension system. If politics fails and is so polarized, the Netherlands remains a country without a plan and remains a split society. But if politics join forces, overcomes contradictions, solves problems together and achieves results, social polarisation will also be reduced and contradictions will be bridged there too. Then we take a step towards restoring trust, people in each other and in government. Then we'll be another country with a plan. And that's my goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u535	Mr. Chairman. Would it be for a time like this? That question is given to Ester, a Jewish girl who grows up in the diaspora, in a foreign country, in a world empire. In a wonderful way, she gets to know the king of that country and conquers his heart. Ester becomes queen, the most powerful woman of the most powerful country in the world at that time. But then the Jewish people are threatened by a king's decision in its survival, for the umpteenth time in history. As there is now anti-Semitism, so was there then. It is at that existential crossroads, a moment when history can go in all directions, that her uncle asks Ester this question. Ester, would it be for a time like this that you've become queen? The story of Ester is a famous story from our highly acclaimed Jewish-Christian tradition. A story with expressiveness, also for people who have no inner connection with that tradition. Ester uses her power to do good: she saves her people. And we too have been given a special responsibility to do the right thing. We are sitting on a blue chair of which there are only 150 in this country. Our country's laws, decisions on better and worse, on justice and injustice, depend on our arm gestures on Tuesday afternoon. And you, Cabinet, are the only cabinet we have. Fair policy, fair measures, budgets in which moral choices are made: it depends on what you decide on Friday in the Trêveszaal. Would it be for a time like this that we're here? I know; we're not Ester. And we live in a very different period, with very different challenges and questions, but in a special time. We are not only approaching the political crossroads of 15 March, but also socially this is a decisive period. From a period when it was mainly about curbing a crisis, we turn it into a time in which other more existential questions are central. It's a time when a radical Muslim took a gruesome dead man's ride on Nice's promenade. A time when young jihadists cut the throat of an elderly French priest. A time when, with the attacks in Paris and Brussels, terror is getting closer and closer. It is a time when the intrusive question sounds like what the value of our freedom is. And are we willing to pay that price? It is also a time when local relationships harden, from Zaanstad to Geldermalsen. It is a time when fault lines alienate us from each other: young and old, highly educated and low-educated, rich and poor, indigenous and ethnic. It's a time when we're looking for hope, for what binds us together. We're looking for the answer to the question we can still address each other. What is our common morality? What makes us a whole, a society, a national community? I believe it's for a time like this that we're here. We live in a beautiful country. We have good education. Our children are among the happiest in the world. Never before have we been so free and so prosperous. Never before has medical science been so gifted. Unemployment is still far too high, but the number of jobs is increasing and unemployment is falling. We've been economically in a deep valley, but we're climbing out. As a Christian Union group, too, we have done what we believed we had to do. In times of crisis, we have been constructively thinking along with the cabinet. We count our blessings now. Nevertheless, with many others, I have a strong feeling that there is now more at stake, namely our freedom. That is the freedom as the space to do good and also to differ from one another in our beliefs which is exactly that good. That's a freedom that includes our whole life, from beginning to end. So that starts with the freedom to be born. Everyone's welcome here. All people are equal. The Christian Union Group has often called for ratification of the UN Disability Convention. We are very pleased that this has actually happened in the last parliamentary year. The Treaty encourages us to commit ourselves to an inclusive society. This is a society in which people with disabilities can take their place. At the same time, we received a letter yesterday from the VWS Minister announcing that the NIP test will be offered to all pregnant women and will be included in the basic package in 2018. We know from other countries, such as Denmark, that this can lead to hardly any children being born with Down. I understand that women in the risk group want to have all the information, but the outcome that Down children are not born or barely are, I would find indigestible. Next month we'll have the Week of Life. In it we celebrate life with all kinds of organisations: unborn, diverse, but worth protecting and worth the freedom. The Christian Union will continue to work for that freedom. The most important thing for our society is perhaps the freedom for families. That's where we learn that we're not just an individual, but that we're made for each other. Here we learn to live together, love, care and be cared for. Misbehaviour in Zaanstad or Geldermalsen, or the self-enrichment of thick cocks, as the Prime Minister described the fat-Imentality not so long ago, may also go back to a crippled education. The family is the place where standards and values are transferred, where we learn to take account of each other. In families we often find the caretakers for the parents that Secretary of State Van Rijn hopes for. But despite all the warm words that even liberals nowadays talk about Brussels sprouts, Secretary of State Dekker, who isn't there, held a praise on Brussels sprouts, the freedom of families to make their own choices about combining care and work is under heavy pressure. This cabinet and many parties in this Chamber put all their money on paid work: two jobs for two partners. Last week, Fiscalist Leo Stevens quite rightly denounced the injustice, as he called it, that equal incomes are taxed unequally. If one of the two partners chooses to take care of the children or to take care of a parent or if a partner is chronically ill, then the tax authorities are ready to pay the tax. In this context, Stevens says that the current tax system does not connect but sets people against each other. It is precisely because at this time we are looking for connecting communities, for morality and for care and eye for each other, that the Christian Union Group gives great priority to the family in its counter-budget. I call on the Cabinet to do the same, not because the Christian Union wants it so badly, but because it benefits everyone and society needs it. With the financial commitment given to Mr Schouten, the Minister of Finance has promised to meet at least those who earn with a chronically ill partner. I am pleased that 50 million has been reserved for this purpose. I also see this as a victory for these families, a victory that was desperately needed. But it really takes more than that. The cabinet still leaves families who combine work and care and who have to live on one income, standing in the cold. That's unfair. Perhaps the most important freedom for families, for parents is choosing a school for their children. If somewhere freedom is under pressure as space for difference, then it's at this point. There was a time when the VVD spokesperson always had a plasticized version of Article 23 of the Constitution in his pocket. I am not entirely sure that is still the case with the current group spokesmen. Over the last few weeks, the attack on freedom of education comes mainly from the SP side, but I can also look at the cabinet. I listened very carefully to the H.J. the other day. Schoo-lecture by the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, who is not here at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u536	I signed it off this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u537	I know. But it's a shame she's not here. I hope my words happen anyway. I heard that lecture and noticed that I was regularly nodding and humming in agreement. It was a passionate plea for freedom. It was about freedom versus freedom, about "we" versus "she" and about a coalition for freedom. I was part of it. At least, that's what I thought, until Minister Schippers pushed me away hard. Towards the end of her speech she literally said: "And we thought: freedom, that speaks no one anymore, that blows itself over. Religion is outdated. In any case in the form of a prescribed life according to the lines of the Bible or the Qur'an." Who are the "we" who thought religion was outdated, that a life to the Bible was passé? So I'm not one of them. But who is speaking? Are those VVDs? Are those cabinet members? Is that "the thoughtful part of the nation"? It seems that I only belong to it if I exchange my church membership for membership of the VVD. It was therefore understandable that after the reading a questioner asked the Minister why she had not advocated the abolition of educational freedom. The Minister was honest enough to acknowledge that she had indeed thought of it, but she did not want to choose it, because she would then have an argument with the wrong people. I think that's a good assessment. I'm gonna pass for that coalition of freedom if it means I'm gonna have a school fight after that. That's not freedom. That's freedom. The freedom of education is the freedom of parents and schools to work with heart and soul for good education. It is: freedom of choice, room for difference, for great involvement of parents, for extra motivated teachers. That freedom belongs to everyone. As long as you stick to the law and have the best of kids, you're entitled to that freedom. In recent years, this freedom has been under pressure many times. The Christian Union has had to fight hard to maintain the small school allowance. The survival of schools that are the last in their direction was at stake. As far as I am concerned, hands off the freedom of education, hands off the freedom of choice of parents! If indeed the VVD-Room members do not carry a ticket with article 23 in their pocket, I will be happy to help them. I have one with me. I've got it right here. Through the messenger, I can ensure that he arrives at the VVD Group, the other political groups and the members of the cabinet, so that everyone has the constitutional article at hand and keeps a handy card very close to his heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u538	That won't be necessary. I think I was very clear when Mr Segers asked me to interrupt. I come forward because of what Mr Segers said about the small schools and the combination he made with the freedom of education. The freedom of education is a great asset in this country. There is the possibility of setting up a school of your own. However, I would ask Mr Segers to look at another aspect: the future of these children. Those children must receive the best possible education. If a small school is unable to provide quality education because of its size, then the denomination of that school should not be at the expense of the future of those children. Does Mr Segers agree with me? Then we must not linger in the purely theoretical discussion about freedom of education, but then we must also dare to take a step in the interests of those children. Then perhaps we should merge schools at administrative level. We can do that in another way. Then we will ensure that the education of these children, and thus their future, is designed in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u539	In general, I can say that quality monitoring is carried out from the point of view of inspection. That's the theoretical answer. Very practically, I can say the following. On the afternoon that it was decided to keep those small schools, the last one in their direction, open, I was at such a small school in the east of the country. It was celebrated with cake that Secretary Dekker made a good decision and that school remained open. That school had just received the predicate "excellent." That was a small school, the last in his direction and an excellent school. Then you see that quality, identity and a modest size can go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u540	I'm not fighting that either. I don't think a small school is, by definition, very good or very bad. I'm not from that department. It is ultimately about the quality of education that is offered, whether it is in a small or a large school. Mr Segers has charmingly avoided my question. The question was next. If a small school is not able to bring the quality of education to a good level, thus compromising the future of these children, does Mr Segers agree that the importance of the child is paramount and that we should not remain purely in the denomination, but should look at how we are going to provide these children with education in a school of a format in which their future really comes first? Of course, their background must be taken into account. If Mr Segers thinks that is absolutely necessary, then we will find each other. The VVD also believes that this freedom of education belongs in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u541	You have freedom of education because parents want to choose. Parents don't choose a bad school, they choose a good school. They choose quality. That's not proportionate to the scale of that school. In fact, sometimes you see that a small school produces more involvement of teachers and parents. If such a school falls through the ice and goes through minimum standards, then it is obvious that you need to intervene. Of course you look at quality, but quality and identity are not enemies of each other. In fact, they're very good at strengthening each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u542	Finally, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u543	If I understand correctly, then I hear Mr Segers saying: yes, if it is in the interests of the children and the quality of education cannot be offered, then we must have the greatness to take that step. We'll have to do that then. I agree with Mr Segers. If the quality is good, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u544	We're looking at quality. We have a special arrangement for last schools of direction, because they do have a special position. These schools also have to comply with quality standards. We have an inspection for that. He looks very closely at that. In this connection, I believe that we can maintain both freedom and quality. Freedom of education is not an end in itself, but a means of doing good things. Our counter-budget makes it clear what that means for the Christian Union Group. It means investing in vocational education, in professionals, in young people with golden hands, in learning rights for late bloomers. It also means investing in good-looking minds. That is why we are removing the threshold of the loan system from our counter-budget and we want to give a good deal of work to talent. Of that talent, too, we will have to have it as a country. It would adorn the self-declared educational parties such as D66 and GroenLinks if they returned to this point as well. Freedom is not indifference. A cabinet isn't just for strong people. Freedom is not only the right to take care of yourself, it is also the duty to take care of each other. Definitely vulnerable people deserve our care. I am thinking of palliative care, of elderly people who need extra care in the final phase of their lives, so that they can say goodbye with dignity. The Christian Union wants to make extra money for this. I'm also thinking of people in psychological distress. Cops and neighborhood residents notice it on the street. More and more people with mental problems are wandering around, when they actually need help. That is why we are also investing extra in the ggz, and in the care and care of, among other things, confused people. This week, the Salvation Army also issued a cry for help about the number of homeless people that cannot be helped. The cabinet has kept quiet about that. What is this Prime Minister's message to the people that the Salvation Army is so concerned about, to the inhabitants of his country who don't make their voices sound on the Malieveld, because they are overwhelmed with themselves and have to struggle through life? They must have something to say to this cabinet, too, don't they? Freedom also literally demands space, a space in which we can live: the earth. We want to be able to pass that earth on to our children with good decency. I want a healthy and clean environment for our children. In 2015, harmful emissions of polluting greenhouse gases increased by 5%. It creates unhealthy air and climate change. Gas production in Groningen is still far too high. People don't feel safe in their own homes. This has to be changed, with clean energy, substantial energy savings in homes and a sustainable economy. The Netherlands has global, sustainable front-runner companies. Society and companies are ready to make the energy transition. What is the government going to do to support this transition and not to increase CO emissions but to reduce them by 25%, so that we do not shift the bill to future generations, but to make the economy strong and clean? We're here for a time like this. The most existential threat to freedom is the threat to life itself. It comes at this time from jihadists, especially from outside our country but sometimes from within. What is at stake is the freedom to believe and not to believe. The freedom to embrace and criticize a religion. Freedom of expression, press, elections and assembly and association. Looking at Nice, Paris and Brussels, we know it's about ourselves, about our lives. At this time, we are facing a very convincing and very motivated enemy: the jihadism that it is targeting ourselves. It's to be or not to be. This is an existential struggle for freedom. We fed it earlier, for example about 60 years ago, when we feared the nuclear threat from the east. It was at that time that the well-known British writer C.S. Lewis wrote wonderful words about what to do in a time of struggle and fear. When I translate his words into our time, he says, "The first thing we have to do is calm down. If we are then destroyed by an attack, let that attack be committed while we are engaged in useful and human matters, praying, working, teaching, reading, listening to music, the children taking a bath, playing tennis, talking to our friends at a drink and a dart game, and not while we have crawled together like a bunch of scared sheep, just thinking of the threat of an attack. They can destroy our bodies, as a bacteria can, but they don't have to control our thinking." And so it is. Of course, the choice not to be afraid must go hand in hand with the choice to defend us. The Christian Union Group supports the cabinet in the priority it gives to Defence, to our security services and to Security and Justice. There is a delay in maintenance, and our citizens deserve to be corrected. At the same time, I very much miss the fact that priority is also being given to helping victims elsewhere, to receiving refugees in the region and to building free and safe countries elsewhere. The Netherlands is becoming more and more penny wise, pound foolish. The Christian Union wants to return to the international standard of development cooperation, not because it creates a feeling, but because it creates a better, more just and safer world. Money for the poorest should go to the poorest. It is impossible that the Netherlands is the largest net recipient of its own development money, and that the Netherlands spends money for the poor on the reception of refugees. How can the Cabinet do that? And how has the PvdA, which we have always found by our side in the past, allowed this bald blow to happen in recent years? In any case, I think that is unfair and unwise. In protecting freedom, we must also prevent the export of unfreedom from non-free countries. There are still money flows from countries like Saudi Arabia towards, among other things, salafistic foundations and organizations here. For a few years, the Chamber has been calling for this to be done, but the power of the cabinet is limited. I ask the Cabinet to apply the principle of reciprocity. I have already shared this with Mr Zijlstra in an interruption this morning. Countries with freedom as we have it are free to support ideal organisations here. But countries in which freedom is limited or absent, such as Saudi Arabia, in which you may not even have a Bible, let alone build a church on one Norwegian church in the Norwegian Embassy after.. do not have the freedom to financially support relatives here. After all, we would be importing freedom. I would like a response on that point. I started this contribution with Ester, a brave woman of old. I want to end up with a brave man of today. Just before the summer I was visiting General off duty and former Commander of the Armed Forces Peter van Uhm. If there's one man standing tall and standing for freedom, it's him. A day after he took charge of our army, his son died in Afghanistan. He could have withdrawn in grief and bitterness, but he decided to stay in his post and continue to work for the security and freedom of our country. Even after he left the service, he continued to work, particularly for the education of young people. He travels city and country to talk to them about our freedom and our responsibility for each other. During our conversation at his house, he told me what makes him the difference between a politician and a statesman. He said: a politician makes socially desirable decisions, but a statesman makes socially necessary decisions. I wish the Cabinet and all of us a great deal of statesmanship here, and the blessing and wisdom of God. After all, we are here for a time like this, with the task of doing the right thing, to safeguard the future of our children, to ensure that everyone counts, and to stand up for the freedom to believe. That is the commitment of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u545	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Cabinet. It's the last General Reviews of this Prime Minister. The cabinet has held out. Chapeau! The VVD and the Labour Party, they are separate worlds. But between the two sides, the bridge has lasted. Diederik and Mark didn't let them break up. There were tensions and so now there was a crisis. There was a bit of heartbreak, a near-crisis and another, and another. They were about bed, about bath and about bread, like any good relationship. They also dealt with health care contributions and the free choice of doctors. But the shrapnel was always swept together and glued together. Fortunately, there was always help from someone you could count on: the postillon d'amour from Wageningen. It's a great achievement. It was a long time ago, almost 20 years ago, when a coalition did not break up prematurely, even though I hear the chairman of the VVD now issue a profit warning. Maybe it's a coincidence, but that was also a purple cabinet. That was the first purple cabinet, but I now understand that there is also a possibility that this cabinet will look like the second purple cabinet. The PvdA and the VVD are separate worlds, like I said. But they stayed together as a third purple cabinet. My heartfelt congratulations. Divorced worlds? This is the title of a report by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Scientific Council for Government Policy. The socio-cultural differences between groups of people are increasing in our country. It seems as if we are increasingly facing each other: higher-educated people versus lower-educated people, white versus black and young versus old. This leads to polarisation over immigration, about the future of Europe. It leads to fierce, polarized discussions about Easter eggs and the color of Black Piet. It leads to excrement, such as pig heads at asylum seekers' centres, intimidation of journalists by Turkish Dutch in the event of a demonstration or threat to young people living in Zaandam. The cabinet has remained together, but society seems to drift apart. Public finances are in order, but society is divided. The Prime Minister keeps laughing, but society has toothache. That grumpy and that uncertainty is increasing when we realize that we are not keeping the world outside our borders. We have a moral duty to deal with people fleeing war and violence: resettlement of refugees from Lebanon and Jordan, resettlement of refugees from Greece and resettlement of refugees trapped on the Syrian border. We must do what the international organisations ask and what we ourselves have agreed in Europe. We have to keep our promises. Can the Prime Minister indicate how we are going to contribute to the rapid resettlement of refugees within Europe and outside Europe? Because reception in the region is a shame for our own responsibility, especially when we realise that the development cooperation budget from which aid for refugees in crisis regions is paid has reached a low point. It's been at the lowest point since 1973. That is not only a financial but also a moral low. I would also like to receive a response from the Prime Minister. The Netherlands must also be a safe haven for vulnerable children. Too often things go wrong. We all know Eduard, a 17-year-old boy who lived in the Netherlands for six years. In his class he got the highest grade for Dutch and cum laude passed his vmbo. He was deported. Eduard lives in Armenia and is faced with military service. He's scared and depressed. For such children, we can and must make a difference. GroenLinks, together with the Labour Party, has submitted a law to include children's rights in the Foreigner's Act. Does the cabinet support this proposal? In this debate it was a lot about who we are like the Netherlands, about our Netherlands and about the question: is the Netherlands still the Netherlands? That was also the question the Prime Minister raised with Summer Guests. There our Prime Minister stressed once again that limiting the number of asylum seekers is so important that the Netherlands should be the Netherlands. I'd like to say the opposite today. Is the Netherlands still the Netherlands if we do not take enough refugees? Do we remember our history? Is it not our country that has been a refuge in history for those who feared for their safety? Isn't it just the Netherlands that was a free port for those who think differently and those who believe differently? Our history has black, black pages with slavery and the colonial past. We don't think enough of that. However, we do not think enough that our country has contributed to the fight for freedom, for rights that parties who wear the freedom in the name deal with sloppyly, in order to put it mildly. Empathy for the other. Stand up for the freedom of the other. We've learned it in our history with damage and shame. Isn't that the Netherlands? If these are not the values we share, I ask the Prime Minister who is also a historian. The urge for freedom and emancipation is not typically Western. Human rights are universal. But freedom must be fought everywhere and always on those in power, on religious authorities, on conservative forces. Think about the gay marriage. I am proud that the Netherlands took the lead in achieving equal rights for homosexuals, but it was the conservative Frits Bolkestein who voted against gay marriage 20 years ago. Think also of our international politics. With the Turkey deal, we handed ourselves over to Erdogan. As long as Erdogan stops refugees, human rights don't matter. And Saudi Arabia throws cluster bombs on civilians in Yemen. Women have no rights. Barbarian death sentences and atrocious death sentences are the order of the day. This country, with the most conservative flow of Islam, finances mosques in our country. During this cabinet period we sent our royal house to that country and there have been three ministerial missions in search of trade. I never hear representatives of the VVD say that we should reconsider our relationship with such countries. As long as money is made, human rights don't matter. And the PVV likes to fight against renewable energy and deny global warming, but I never hear Wilders talk about our dependence on oil from countries like Saudi Arabia and Russia. The VVD and the PVV have a double morale. Values and ideals up to the border, but there are only interests abroad. Divorced worlds. Between words and deeds, between values and interests and between the merchant and the minister. Do you know what Bolkestein said when he voted against that motion for gay marriage? We shouldn't be too far ahead, Bolkestein thought, not out of step with abroad. That is not good for our relations and for our economic interests. It seems to have become the VVD doctrine. Do not lead the way with climate policy, do not lead the way with the bio-industry, do not lead the way with tax avoidance. Values and ideals die in this way on the altar of the mammon, the god of money, on the altar of economic interests. It is precisely this double morality, this attitude of the short-sighted merchant, that we must get rid of when we take the fight for freedom seriously. Freedom of religion, freedom of speech. Equality of people and the development of our welfare state and the individual values of emancipation we have fought for over the past decades. That's our Netherlands. Only if we are aware of these values can we be open to the other. If we consider freedom to be so important, we must also grant it to the other. I referred earlier to the example of Matteo Renzi, the Italian Prime Minister. For every euro that goes extra to security in Italy, an extra euro is spent on culture. That is a good answer to those who want to overthrow our culture. In our counter-budget, we have moved on to this idea. We need to arm ourselves against terrorism. Additional money is needed for security, of course, but we must also have a proud and substantive answer. An answer that shows that we don't let ourselves get scared. An answer that shows we're better than ISIS. An answer that shows that we are greater than suggesting group contradictions. Extra money for culture, for social cohesion in neighbourhoods, for integration of refugees and, of course, for education. A response of freedom over fear, hope over fear and connection over division. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister to our counter-budget. The Netherlands is not a country in which success is an individual achievement and failure is your own fault. The Netherlands is the country of honest sharing, of caring for each other. And we kind of lost that. The market got priority and it became every man for himself. The community was ignored. Inequality has increased, as has uncertainty for many people with temporary and flexible work. In education, inequality in opportunity increases. Your descent increasingly determines your success. Lessons are almost only accessible to children with parents who can pay for that. A similar process is going on in the care sector. Fewer and fewer people can bear the high own risk and avoid necessary care. Older people with low incomes are not sure whether they are receiving home care or household help. That gives us uncertainty. This cabinet is responsible, as I read in the draft resolution, for the fact that 70 million hours less is spent on care. These are millions of hours less hands on the bed, less help for our elderly, less guidance for the disabled, less attention for the most vulnerable. This is slowly but surely increasing inequality, slowly but surely increasing discontent. It's a sneaky, toxic process that goes through our society. More confused people on the street. More people with problem debts. More poverty among children and poverty that is in danger of becoming hereditary. More distrust of politics and the rule of law. More distrust of people in each other. More inequality is not without social consequences. More inequality destroys more than we love. This cabinet made the promise, which was an important pillar of the coalition agreement, that incomes would be distributed fairly. Has that promise been honored? We have looked at the figures given to us by the Central Planning Office. We can only conclude that the high incomes of more than twice as many as five times more have progressed in euros than average incomes. Even over the whole cabinet period, the highest incomes rose faster, by more than 6.5%, than the lowest incomes, by 4%. In short, inequality has increased further, against this cabinet's own promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u546	That I would interrupt on this subject again... You know, Mr Klaver, let me start by asking if it's gonna be a little cheerful, because I'm getting a little depressed about your story. This is not good and that is not good: it really is a touch of tears pulling. And then you bring up the inequality in this country. In that sense, you look a bit like Mr Wilders. He also had a story that didn't make you very happy, while he wanted to radiate hope and optimism. That's what I hear you say a lot. It just doesn't come out. That's a bit of a shame. I say to Mr Klaver: just look at the facts. That I should say it... It was really something the VVD had to turn in on, but this cabinet did not contribute to income inequality. I would have liked it to have been a little more proportionate and that the middle-income people could have benefited a little more, but what Mr Klaver says is not true; that I have to say that. I like facts in politics and it would be nice if he would stick to the facts as well. Then there is the concern, also such an area where Mr Klaver tries to sow discord in a very secret manner. The people who take care and the people who have to pay for care are being set up a little against each other, like the low incomes against the middle incomes are being set up. He shouldn't, because if you sow dichotomy, you will reap discord in society. We have a huge solidarity system of care. People with a modal income who don't take care of themselves pay €1,900 each year, 10% of their income, for the care of low-income people. High-income people pay many times more care premiums than low-income people. If Mr Klaver sets out the picture that this needs to be implemented even further, he undermines solidarity in the country and in the care sector. I would like to say to Mr Klaver: stop talking about hope and optimism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u547	Will you stop that? This is an encouragement to step up. The inequality is a big problem in the world and in this country, and I've been calling for it for years. Mr Zijlstra talks about care. I'm just looking around at what's happening, and I see people are afraid to go to a doctor. We can explain to them so many times that, for example, the general practitioner is not under his own risk, and that there are all kinds of regulations, including in the municipality, but I see what the effect is. I don't think it should be a risk of your own if you get sick. That's what we're paying each other for, and then we're looking for a different way of financing. Then I come to the figures on inequality in the Netherlands. I think it is fantastic that Mr Zijlstra is standing up for the cabinet and saying that it is all very fairly distributed, but we have shown figures on the basis of CPB data. We have looked at the purchasing power picture of recent years and it shows that low incomes have improved significantly less than high incomes. We can continue to talk about this, Mr Zijlstra can say that I am wrong and someone can call me a flagrant liar, but let us send them to the CPB. Let the CPB take a look at it. I am absolutely convinced that the facts we are presenting here stand. Then why don't we just send them to the CPB?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u548	I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u549	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u550	But then we're going to see what this cabinet has done. That's what I'm talking about. Mr Klaver knows very well that he is involved in this matter. Mr Samsom has just said it to him who are not cabinet policy. The lower interest rate, for example, which people with their own homes can benefit from, is not a cabinet policy, and Mr Klaver should make that distinction. I'm sorry to have to say this again, but it's really hard for me to see someone running with the facts like that. I'll come back to the care department. We want to have a solidarity-based healthcare system, and I understand very well that people who need care and have to pay their own risk have the experience at that time that they have not asked for care to be taken away and that they do not want to be sick at all. I understand that very well and I want to think about it, too, but if we lower our own risk, that means an increase in the premium, and who is going to pay those higher premiums? That is what I am asking Mr Klaver. Now, don't let him tell you that we're gonna get it from somewhere else, because it's a closed system. It must come from that system, either from its own risk or from higher premiums.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u551	This assumption doesn't add up. It doesn't have to come out of the system, because you can just choose to take it out of the taxes. Yeah, you can. That's what we can choose, and then you can pick it up in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u552	Taxes are apparently free, at GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u553	No, not at all. This is not in our counter-budget, let us be clear about it, so I cannot say anything about it, but I am now moving ahead of our electoral programme, where this is in it. In it, Mr Zijlstra can see what shifts we are making. We will ensure that the burden on families in the Netherlands is reduced and that they will increase for business, because we will tackle tax avoidance among other things, and because we do not see all kinds of plans the VVD has with the Vpb. And from there, we can very well pay for the care. That is not weird at all: we do it just like we do it with education and with roads. Only in the care sector do we work with contributions which finance a significant part of the care, and I believe that the contribution of the government from taxes could be much greater. There is no need to increase premiums for this. I cannot yet give Mr Zijlstra the exact amounts. I hope he does not mind, because it is still to be reckoned with, but he can assume that the premium will fall very much from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u554	Then I understand, because GroenLinks does not do it in the healthcare premium, but simply in the taxes and that is also something people have to pay. For it must come from length or width.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u555	I'm not running away from that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u556	I would really like to tell Mr Klaver that the solidarity in the Dutch healthcare system is already fairly stretched. People with low incomes pay just over two tens a month for care in the Netherlands. That is half of an average telephone subscription, and it is paid for care that is among the best in the world. Mr Klaver has to be careful with a story like we have a huge inequality here, because that policeman, that nurse and that bus driver pay €1,900 every year for the care of others, and if you take that too far, they will have tobacco from it at some point. So, Mr Klaver, cherish the solidarity that exists now, because it is very good, but do not push it so far that you are putting all this at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u557	I have just told Mr Zijlstra that the burden on the business community in the Netherlands is going to rise considerably in our opinion, not his political choice, but ours, and that we want to tackle tax avoidance. That's where we'll pay it off, and that has nothing to do with the middle incomes. In fact, in our plans we will spare the middle incomes, because they are hard enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u558	Taxing companies may sound very nice, but it's just about the jobs of Dutch people. There are a lot of people working in these companies and they can support their families again. If you want to tackle these companies so badly, that means that people lose their jobs, have no income, and that ultimately simply pays the bill back to the citizens of the Netherlands. Go down to Earth for once!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u559	Mr Zijlstra, there are billions in those letterbox companies we've been fighting all along. We could pick up a lot more there. These companies do not bring jobs to the Netherlands at all, but mailboxes. That's all it is. It's high time we went after these firms. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the mood in society and the breaking of political promises have to do with each other. The promise that everyone would benefit from market forces and globalisation has proved to be a false one. Year after year, the highest incomes benefited from this and ordinary incomes were lagging behind. Year after year, the grumpy is increasing. This year people voted against Europe: in the Netherlands in the Ukraine referendum and in the United Kingdom in the Brexit. How cynical is it, then, that the British Finance Minister, in response to the Brexit, promises a further reduction in the tax on profits for international companies? Then how cynical is it that our own prime minister wants to lure bankers from London City to Amsterdam by pointing out to them the gaps in our bonus legislation? How cynical is it that voters make their voices louder than ever, but that we don't seem to understand the message? Divorced worlds, even in the cabinet! The Prime Minister wants bonuses for Brexit bankers and the Minister of Finance wants a bonus limit for business managers. Are those two messages for two worlds, one for the world of bankers and the other for the stage? I'd like an explanation. The growing inequality in the Netherlands is also noted in the last report of the Planning Bureau for the Environment. Inequality is increasing at a higher rate than the European average. This planning agency also sees separate worlds: the growing difference between urban and rural areas and between regions that continue to grow and those that lag behind. This creates increasing inequality, not only poverty against wealth but also inequality in health. If you have a low income and live next to a highway where air quality is poor, your expected lifespan is years shorter than that of someone with a high income in a good neighborhood next to a green city park. We want to forget, but environmental and nature policy is about equality, about equality between people now, here and far away, but also about the equality and opportunities of future generations. The most important political promise has been made in Paris over the past year. There we made international agreements to limit global warming to 2oC. The Netherlands is champion of broken promises, because we are constantly lagging behind in reducing CO emissions and we are hopelessly lagging behind in the use of renewable energy. GroenLinks also drew up a climate budget in addition to a counter-budget this year. We are ahead of the climate law that Mr Samsom and I have tabled. We also want to show that things can be different and that we can keep our promises so that we can get rid of the gas from Groningen faster, we can green the economy quickly and create more jobs and prosperity. Real, honest prosperity! I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister to our climate budget. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The cabinet is almost ready, but society is not. We're at a new crossroads. We need to reinvest in our society, in a new and green economy and in new jobs. This is making prosperity together and sharing honestly in a new story for the Netherlands. I wish the cabinet success in its last months but I look forward to the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u560	Mr. Chairman. What kind of country are we living in? Many people ask themselves that: the farmer who sees his business go to hell, the citizen who sees his familiar surroundings change, but also the asylum seeker who fled Syria and ended up in the Netherlands. What kind of country did I end up in? That country has been debated for hours today. We have heard from many coalition parties the blessings of the policy and from many opposition parties the shortcomings. That is why I was thinking: I am not going to go into the details of the SGP tonight, because you already know that. The fact that you have few spectacular surprises is a bit of the disadvantage of stability. I cannot say that we have been cutting back on security and defence for a very long time, and why should we not invest a little more in it? We have always said: it is important that you invest a lot in it. Nor can I say about Europe: yes, we said for a while that we had to give away a lot of powers to Brussels, but now we have to stop that development towards superstate and change it. Actually, we've always said that. As far as the tax system is concerned, I cannot say either: the unfair tax discrimination against single-earners is a thorn in our eyes today. In fact, Van der Vlies, my predecessor, has for years walked the fire out of his boots to get attention to that. I am also pleased to say to the cabinet that the purchasing power of an earner is increasing, that there has been specific attention for them and that a very special group of chronically ill and disabled people are even receiving some extras. Unfortunately, this unacceptable gap between the earners and the two-earners continues to grow. They now sometimes pay up to six times as much tax. When is the cabinet really gonna do something about this? In fact, everyone already knows how the SGP looks at the most important points. In addition, we don't have any exciting stories on offer: no broken election promises, no team neglect, not all of that. I'm sorry, I can't help it! And now I could take advantage of this debate to indicate how the SGP has faced the cabinet and support good plans, improve less good plans and reject bad plans, but that is all well known. I could also tell you how we managed to achieve through partial agreements that the family wallet was somewhat spared, that carers were given support and that extra money went to security and defence. I could mention that we are pleased that our wishes have been met to free up money for exit programmes for prostitutes, the support of unwanted pregnant women and measures to combat suicide. But if I were to measure all that widely, it would be so snug, so bossy, and that is not the SGP's. Let a strange man praise thee, and not thy own mouth, saith Solomon the wise. Do you know what I've noticed in the country lately? That's that you hear more and more sighs, sometimes out loud but usually whispers carefully, that sometimes you might want more SGP. Now, of course, the forthcoming elections are an excellent opportunity to do something about this, but nothing stands in the way of the cabinet working on it now and putting more SGP into the plans. May I make two very modest proposals? Last year Mr Zijlstra talked about the entrepreneurs in agriculture and horticulture in the General Political Review. Now he didn't, but I think he forgot. Entrepreneurs in agriculture and horticulture lack the security, perspective and clarity to invest in animal welfare and the environment. You can't be green while you're in the red. What's your answer, Prime Minister? Do you see the possibility of a multi-annual agreement giving clarity to the sector? My second proposal relates to the fact that the Netherlands is more than just the Randstad. We have had a wonderful committee working which, in Zeeland, a very beautiful province, looked at the possibilities for economic structural strengthening. There are nice plans, but it stayed a little quiet after that. Is the cabinet willing to draw the wallet for this? I promised not to go into government policy in detail tonight, but to throw it over a different path. I would like to take you all to the central hall of the House of Representatives, the place where everyone comes in: representatives of the people, voters, elected representatives. In that welcome hall you can see what kind of country the Netherlands is. I see some frightened faces: what are we getting at so late in the evening? To reassure you, I wanted to make a virtual tour of it. For convenience, I brought you something for that tonight. I know, after GroenLinks' plug box a few years ago, things got a little quieter with objects in the Chamber. But it is an old tradition to give some visible education from time to time. In 1985, CDA-Kamerlid, when CHU was no, CDA it was already Eversdijk with a muskrat in the Chamber. Earlier, in 1972, the MP De Jong of the Dutch Small and Medium-Sized Party came here with a blackboard and chalk to calculate how the cabinet steals the self-employed. A little further back, of course, I saw Mr Samsom think about it: why do I not hear about Troelstra? In 1897, Pieter Jelles Troelstra already came in here with a fake wooden window to indicate that the House of Lords, at the time a famous case, had been mistakenly put in prison because they could never have come through that small window. At that time, therefore, there was already attention in the Chamber to special matters, let us say. The space I want to take you to is the State Passage, where last year during the General Reviews the world-famous Amazing Grace was heard, a song with a message full of faith, hope and love. But even if that hallway is empty and everyone is pulled out, there is a lot of beauty to see. I would like to take a moment today to consider three works of art in that hall. I'll start right at the entrance square. If you can't see it quite well on the big picture on the panel I'm showing now, it's also on my Twitter account to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u561	At entrance Square, there have been eighteen busts in a semicircle of our Dutch civilisation. I will not make a quiz question of which eighteen are, because we do encounter very different figures, writers, poets, engineers, composers... I'll also turn the sign to box K, so the cabinet can see it too. There are Oranges as Frederik Hendrik, Mayor Willem II and Queen Wilhelmina. There are reverend poets like Beets and Ten Kate. We come across a well-known name as Thorbecke but also less well-known, such as the doctor Pieter Pel. The unlikely talented Anna Maria van Schurman is also among them, the first female student in our country. Also a building entrepreneur like Anne van Hasselt is not missing. All of them, very different people, have contributed to the Netherlands today. I've just been looking into how this selection of heroes actually came about. How is it determined who should belong to those 18? The answer is actually quite Dutch again. It was an accidental choice from a large collection of breast images that were more or less equally executed in white or whitish marble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u562	A rock that radiates power, imperishableness. So don't be too difficult, don't make too much extra costs. What do we already have in the museums? They're a little bit of the same size and we put them there. But that's actually nice, too. We often allow our backs to that image when we receive petitions and so on, but do you know who that figure is in the middle that towers out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u563	Cupid!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u564	No, not Cupid, Mr Pechtold, it is Icarus, and it is not marble but plaster to indicate: everything is transitory. The Greek Icarus was warned: fly not too low, but not too high. But in his hubris he did it, and it is known how it ends. He fell down. This image in the State Passage has a name: Illusion. The illusion makes man fly high, but also hard. With campaigns ahead of us, it's good to tie that in our ears. But is it strange to think of Europe as well? In hubris, we have been flying ever higher into the thin skies of the eurozone and the superstate. Now we know that this was an illusion policy. Hopefully, in Brussels too, it will become clear that if the course is not drastically adjusted, the EU will fall apart. Open borders within the EU are only justified if the common external borders are really well guarded. The borders are still leaking and terrorists can get involved in the flow of refugees, we read in the Threat Picture of Terrorism. When is this finally gonna work out? I wonder whether the cabinet is really working on less Europe and more modesty in Brussels. Is the procurement bureaucracy being addressed? Are the job plans stopping? Will the EU stop drawing pension rules? Wouldn't it be a nice symbol, we're talking about symbols if we were to say: we don't need to have such a European flag from the House of Representatives and from all kinds of ministries; let's deal with it a little more soberly and just let the Dutch tricolor wave? I see Mr Pechtold signaling to Mr Buma. It was indeed a motion from the CDA and D66 to also wave the European flag on the Dutch parliament. I'm going to the second image. Halfway the Statenpassage on the right stands a large piece of art of huge rectangular plates. Do you know what this is? I haven't heard the right answer yet, but I'll tell you. It's called The Four Legislators. Whoever comes closer sees four images on the panels: the Greek Solon, the man of Athenian law, the Byzantine emperor Justinian, of great importance for Roman law, the French emperor Napoleon, to whom we owe the Civil Code and the biblical figure Moses, leader of the Jewish people. On Mount Sinai he received from God the ten commandments written on stone tables, flat stones. The panels with these legislators are connected by a ring of smaller plates in which the Latin spell can be found from the work of Hugo de Groot. "Where justice ends, the war begins" says there. Today, that statement is very topical: where justice ends, the war begins. Even wars far away, which you only read about in the days of Hugo de Groot, are now very close. That spell inspired and inspires my group to put even more effort into law enforcement, security and defence, including for the long term. My specific request to the cabinet is that, in a multiannual plan, sufficient funds be earmarked for defence and security. Security must be there for every citizen. I was shocked to hear from a Somali young woman a while ago that Somali Christians in the Netherlands sometimes have to meet secretly for fear of violence and threats from a radically Islamic angle. Many threats also affect Jewish persons, institutions and synagogues. Anti-Semitism, the hatred of the Jews, is becoming more insolent. We never want and should never give in to threats and intimidation. Today, too, it has been pointed out from all sides that this is firmly anchored in Dutch history. What is the government doing about this in concrete terms? Indeed, where justice ends, the war begins. Madam President. I'm coming to the end of my tour now. We are now going to the third and final artwork in the State Passage. I don't know if you know which one that is. It's perhaps the least obvious when you're walking in the State Passage. In the ridge of the hall there is a monumental hanging construction. "The Netherlands, land by the sea" is on it. It was given to us by the provinces at the inauguration of the new hall in 1992. The special thing about this work of art is that Queen Beatrix has also contributed to this work and has provided two texts. On the long orange penny that hangs, there are texts on both sides. It says: "In the equality of people lies the foundation for a tolerant society." The other text comes from our national anthem, the well-known "My shield and trusting are you, oh God my Lord." If we let those three artworks from the hall work on us, what is the Netherlands for a country? I see a country of different influences, of a diversity of currents. I also notice that by far the majority of people in any form were Christians. To speak with Thorbecke, the spiritual father of the Prime Minister and colleague Pechtold, "Christianity has permeated our laws, our governance, our society and our morals." Today's question is how we deal with this valuable legacy. What's our moral compass? That demand for our values is topical in the light of deversion, but also in the light of the rise of Islam. In any case, the SGP is grateful for this Christian thought. I'm even proud of it. A healthy self-awareness is needed. For this reason alone, I believe that the integration and integration policies should pay greater attention to the history of the Netherlands. Our history doesn't begin until the sixties. The fact that Christmas days have a different status in our country than the Sugar Festival is because this is part of the historical identity of the Netherlands. Polygamy does not belong here, nor does marriage of children. Every man is our fellow man, created in the image of God. That is why we must look after each other, be faithful to whom we have promised allegiance, and have an eye for the vulnerable. Does the cabinet agree with me that these are values that we must stand for? One of those values to be economical is Sunday rest. Last week in the news came that an entrepreneur in Groningen should be open on Sundays on a fine of €10,000. The world turned upside down. Is the Cabinet prepared to take measures to stop this? I would also like to stress the value of protecting vulnerable lives. We are extremely concerned about the effects of the NIP test, which Mr Segers has already mentioned. Are people with Down's syndrome still welcome in tomorrow's society? That's a compelling question. But also unintentionally pregnant women in need deserve more support than they are now receiving. Soon, in the Week of Life, the SGP will present an initiative paper. We expect another cabinet position on the ready-with-life pill. A committee of wise men has said: "Don't get started, it's really the wrong way, and vulnerable people can get hurt. Is the Cabinet listening to this? I'm gonna finish up. The past must never be a reason for complacency. On the contrary, it must be an incentive to move forward in the right direction. As "call for conversion," it is called in the Jewish-Christian tradition. Breaking up with what's wrong. Walking good roads. That is what we are calling for today. I'm just gonna think about the ten commandments for a second. They are called the cornerstone of the rule of law, fundamental rules of living. Moses once said to the Jewish people, "Do not forget, they have been given to you for good. It brings blessing by following them and curse by rejecting them." They're rules of living. They are a compass that has benefited the living together and created freedom. The summary of those ten commandments was given centuries later by Jesus Christ: Love God with heart and soul and your neighbor as yourself. That's not easy. I'm aware of that. But what helps with this is to lift the look up to the text "My shield and trusting are you, O God my Lord." That is why my appeal: every day we enter the central hall, let us first look up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u565	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. I shall now give the floor... Oh, Mr Pechtold, you have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u566	In addition to the art history college, which I very much appreciated, at the end of the contribution a number of issues were mentioned about which D66 and the SGP do not always agree. They were presented as a kind of fixed values by Mr Van der Staaij. Can I ask him a simple question, also because he referred to gay marriage or marriage for people of the same sex? I hope you recognize that homosexuals and heterosexuals are equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u567	That equality I emphasized from the Christian values applies to everyone, whether you're gay or straight, whether you're white or have a different color, whether you're male or female. Every man is our fellow man, and we must love him. That doesn't mean that we say about gay marriage, for example, that you should applaud for that. That is indeed a certain interpretation. As Mr Pechtold points out, we are opposed to each other on that point. We also opposed it at the time. Do you know what I sometimes worry about? When I entered the Chamber in 1998, there was still a split within the VVD group as to whether or not gay marriage was a good idea. If you tell us today that you don't think this is such a good idea, you're gonna get kicked out of the country with pitch and feathers or you're not gonna get in. Then we'll just shoot through a little bit. Would it not also be important to look at a number of generations in terms of the values of a people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u568	Sure, just because things change in generations. Mr Van der Staaij says quite openly and honestly that he is still opposed to gay marriage, but he acknowledges the equality of homosexuals and heterosexuals. This is not so long in Christian tradition. What I mean by that is that also in his constituency and in his mind things change. I remember when the TV for the SGP was the devil's locker. Nowadays Mr Van der Staaij is not too bad to appear on TV and he tweets loose. What I mean by that is that if a party like D66 tries to bring other things forward in generations, as Mr Van der Staaij himself says, and tries to imagine our civilization and medical-ethical themes, he cannot unilaterally say that this cannot be done according to Christian tradition. Mr Van der Staaij is living proof that he himself has also changed his views on, for example, the equality of homosexuals and heterosexuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u569	In essence, our views are the same. I do not see any changes of principle in relation to how we were previously opposed to this. The fronts have sometimes changed and the issues have changed. And if there is violence against people with a homosexual orientation, whether they are condescending or reacting wrongly, we will indeed oppose it. Mr Pechtold mentioned points such as: how do you deal with the media? Of course, we always have to translate, from those ten words I mentioned, into today's reality. But I am genuinely concerned that, if we really think: we all know ourselves, and: we don't need any orientation outside of ourselves, the Netherlands is not heading in the right direction. I would then hope and pray that the rules of living, also in the Netherlands today, will indeed be taken more seriously again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u570	It is the right and the freedom of Mr Van der Staaij to carry that out here, just as I am pleased that my party is trying this year for the fiftieth year to carry out this kind of thing from our point of view. That's not a religion, but if you don't have ideology or religion, it doesn't mean you don't have ideals and you don't want to change things. I would like to point out that we will face each other. However, on the one-sidedly describing Christian values as a kind of fixed concept, I say: look at the history of the Netherlands and also look at how your own supporters, your own party has been evaluated when it comes to gender equality and homosexuality and heterosexuality. Then I am glad to see Mr Van der Staaij, for example, in a refugee debate and we both say: watch out for the refugees. One places emphasis on the Christians and the other places emphasis on the homosexuals, but that is a huge change. We shall continue to deal with the issues that Mr Van der Staaij has just mentioned. I'm pretty happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u571	Then it will also turn out that the conversation about this has never ended. For example, we spoke earlier about the point I mentioned: Sunday rest. We thought very differently about this, but I also remember the D66 Group saying: it is important to us that freedom remains for the people. We oppose a lack of freedom to be open on Sundays, but we will fight for the freedom of everyone to implement it in their own way. We think that you are sacrificing the importance of Sunday rest too much, but I hope that I can count on D66 on my side now and that it is not something that D66 wants when it is said: what is happening in Groningen and other places can't; you have to be open, otherwise you have to pay €10,000. It would be nice if we could get on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u572	Mr. Chairman. Of the 14 group chairmen who are taking part in this debate today, 13 are men. Yeah, I hear the guys say "aaaah." The House of Representatives has a little proportional representation. This is an illustration of the uneven growth in the administrative Netherlands. Not only directors of large companies cannot find women, political parties can find much less. Nearly 100 years after the introduction of women's right to vote, women in leading political positions are still in the minority. That's a sad low. The 2008 crisis is widely attributed by analysts to the male governance culture. Yet the man still dominates the right to stand as a candidate. That dominance has been there since time immemorial. When Mary Wollstonecraft wrote her book A Vindication of the Rights of Woman in 1792, philosopher Thomas Taylor reacted directly with the satirical pamphlet A Vindication of the Rights of Brutes. In it he wrote that giving women rights was just as ludicrous an idea as giving rights to animals. After all, women, like animals, had no soul. A debate in the House of Commons on the possibility of women's right to vote also raised the question of what should be the next step when women should be given the right to vote: rights for cows, for pigs, for horses? Yes, I can say a great century later, that step will also be taken. Women were associated with nature and animality at the time, men with culture and reasonableness. To this day, women in the political arena are judged differently from men. CDA president Ruth Peetom said that politics in a broad sense often turns into verbal fights, which women are wondering if they want to waste their time on this male thing. Women who make it through politics are especially appreciated for their male qualities. Marilyn Monroe said: women who want to be equal to men lack ambition. Janka Stoker, professor of leadership, conducted research into female leadership after the 2008 crisis. In 2008, many people found that the crisis was partly caused by failure of leadership and associated risky behaviour, motivated by male leadership. But strangely enough, the crisis turned out to reduce the appreciation for female leadership. The call for strong male leaders was greater than ever. Irene van Staveren, professor of pluralistic development economy, has shown that there is much truth in the hypothesis that the financial crisis under female leadership probably did not arise. Research shows that on average women show less risky behaviour, which is a major advantage in unstable situations. In addition, the moral and ethical behavior of women in whether everything should be possible is on average more focused on the broader perspective. Men are more on ethics of established standards, rules and duties: if the law does not prohibit it, then it is allowed. The main whistleblowers of the financial crisis were all women. And all this leads to the cautious assumption that we could use a little more feminine strength. More Esters, I would like to say to Mr Segers of the Christian Union, precisely to turn our stuck economic model into an economy of values other than money. A system in which social and ethical values lead to tackle poverty, injustice and climate change in the world. The nineteenth century feminists Cécile and Elsa de Jong van Beek and Donk fought for women's and animal rights. In 1892, 100 years after the publication of Mary Wollstonecraft, they were asked why they didn't fight against the social exploitation of humans; why that besieging protection of animals? Their answer was clear and is still up-to-date. I quote: "Isn't the little one part of the big thing, is there something small in the world order? We protect the little ones but we also protect the man." It is an essential democratic deficit that there is no longer one female member of the political group in this House and that there is an under-representation of female MPs. I dare say that it reduces the chance of making this unstable world more stable. Gender diversity is essential. In the process of rebuilding the buildings of the States-General, the ceiling of armed glass should, in particular, be taken seriously from each political party. Prior to the presentation of the Millions Note, the leaders of the two government parties came up with a carefully directed "sorry for everything we've done" act. And today and tomorrow we get the "but fortunately it worked out well" act. Completely predictable, as transparent as political but can be, as a surrogate for real transparency. "Sorry I forgot to put the amount due in this envelope, but I had already pasted the envelope when it came to me," the Belgian politician Wiet van Broeckhoven summed up the insincerity of many political sorry-sayers; for every political "sorry" with premeditation, for insincerity. In his pamphlet of a green-right optimist, President Rutte of the VVD mentioned the Western dependence on fossil fuels as a major threat to our times, not only because of the scarcity but also because of geopolitical considerations and the washing water. Why then the maintenance of tax subsidies for fossil fuels? In 2009 he said to the Chamber: "I have always had great difficulty with the bio-industry, with the stacking of pigs in a humane way. Animal welfare is high on the list for us. It's very important. You can always contact us for this." You don't just forget that when you're going to rule with tolerance from the PVV in 2010 or with the Labour Party as a coalition partner? "A man a man, a word a word" is it? You wouldn't trade such ideals for what, anyway? I asked Mr Samsom the same question today. What does it do to him that so many of his constituents who wanted to share their ideals in 2012 feel cheated and drop out massively? Will it help if you say: during the 2012 elections, I made a promise that I will not make any promises? Would that appeal to a lot of people? Would many voters then think: ah, I shouldn't be so whining and unreasonable; he said honestly in advance that he couldn't promise anything? I understand that a coalition is about giving and taking. But that giving and taking can never be at the expense of your fundamental beliefs, can it? The ease with which the Labour Party turned in its ideals with regard to hobby hunting, foreign policy, nature policy, bio-industry, climate and employment to the VVD cannot be explained. In particular, the themes of agriculture and nature were not cast into concrete in the coalition agreement, but even on those free subjects the Labour Party completely allowed itself to be surrounded by the VVD. That history doesn't make the "sorry" before the Millions Note credible, does it? You know that, I know that, the viewers at home know that, and the people in the bleachers know that. The gift season has started again. Even before the pepper nuts are in the supermarket, the cabinet sprinkles gifts for the voter and with self-produced Christmas reports. After the banks have been held up with billions of taxpayers' money, the citizen is now getting a tip back. Those gifts must make sure that voters will once again take over the heart and make the many broken promises forget. I would like to mention a number of them; that is, moreover, a far from exhaustive list. The cabinet wanted to build bridges between The Hague and society, interconnectedness and optimism. That's a great goal, but it failed. The cabinet has still not implemented the results of the Ukraine referendum. Research shows that 60% of voters find that unacceptable. Ignoring is forward-looking, seems to think the team of the always happy prime minister. You cannot and do not want to build bridges and "pleurt" against ethnic youth, unless you want to build bridges between the PVV and the VVD. Bridges would also be built between city and rural areas, but during this cabinet period the distance between city and countryside has only increased. Agricultural family farms can't do it anymore. On average, six of them quit a day. Megan stables are being built by the remaining companies. In the countryside a huge megamorphosis occurs. The quality of life of the countryside is deteriorating, causing young people from the province to flee to the cities. That is not building bridges, but widening the gap between population groups. There would also be bridges between rich and poor, but poverty among children is growing. The cabinet promised that taxes on labour would be reduced. The Labour Party and the VVD agreed on this, and in fact every other party agreed. The Secretary of State already dreamed of it out loud. He saw it as a sacred duty. It didn't work out. He sees that $5 billion as a one-time gift going up in smoke. Bridges would be built between high- and low-educated people. This is also the case: unfortunate failure. There was a loan system for students instead of a basic grant. Students have lost around €250 per month. The only bridge that has been built is that between the Labour Party and the VVD, resulting in the campaign budget that is now before us. Of course, many voters are sensitive to the unrealistic promise that everything will recover through economic growth and that, in order to overcome the crisis, production and consumption must grow, whether consumers are waiting for it or not. The cabinet tells people that the economic crisis would have been caused by temporary scarcity of products and services, but nothing is less true. We live in a time when with less and less human power we can produce and organize everything we need. In fact, that's a blessing. It offers a great opportunity to spend more time in other things, such as caring for each other and for nature, personal development, art and enterprise. Those are the things that make life really worth living. But the way in which we have now organised the economy prevents that and makes such development impossible. People need to work more and longer rather than less. There are even working poor in the Netherlands now. Labour remains extremely expensive due to high taxes, while that labour is abundant. Raw materials, on the other hand, are cheap because of subsidies and tax exemptions, whereas they are scarce and in many cases finite. Care also shows very clearly what the current economic system has led to. Since the operation of the market, many hands have been cut off from the bed. I can't call it any other way. Care has been seriously disturbed there. Tens of thousands of people who want to help others are forced home without work. That's what this cabinet should be charging itself with. The current economic system causes an addiction to growth and debt with disastrous consequences for the quality of life of the earth, the quality of our lives and the dignity of people. That system is completely stalled, albeit sneaking. The current economy is like a cyclist who only stays alive if he starts cycling harder and faster. "Buy that car!" "Stick your neck out for that new house!" We're really gonna have to organize things differently. There is a need for a plan B because there is no planet B. Away with the current economic system, which is mainly aimed at making as much money as possible! The economy must serve everything that makes life worthwhile, such as the fight against poverty and injustice, security and the viability of the earth. There are countless solutions for whom she wants to see. A basic income for every Dutch citizen should be seriously examined as an alternative. This system makes it possible to carry out a great deal of work and activities that are either left behind or too expensive at the moment. Entrepreneurial people will dare to stick their necks out for the development of innovative, sustainable products. We should not impose taxes on labour, but on the use of raw materials and CO emissions should be priced. We can use the surplus labour to green all our activities and products, with smart innovations in the service of sustainability. It will be possible to recover lost jobs, jobs that have been relocated to low-wage countries. Think of the textile or other manufacturing industries. Life will be so much more meaningful, more relaxed and solidarity, with more certainty. Earth will have a chance to recover. Conflicts and refugee flows are often exacerbated by water and food shortages and climate change. The Netherlands lives on far too great a footing. We seize land in other countries the size of our own land surface three times. This is at the expense of people there, animals and the environment. I have said it many times here, but it is so important to mention: knife and fork, that is, our food, that what we eat are our main weapons in the fight against hunger and poverty elsewhere in the world. If we stop using the fields in Africa and Brazil for the production of animal feed, for our huge meat industry, then we can feed people directly on plant food, then we can feed three times as many people as we do now and even return fields to nature. If we use our buildings to generate energy instead of waste energy, we save Groningen and the climate. However, the cabinet still prefers to stop its energy in the fight against the climate case, in which the judge has fingered the Dutch state because it does not do enough to combat climate change. Additional measures are still not in place. The Plan Bureau for the Environment states that the cabinet must opt for a radical change in our food system in order to meet the climate goals. It's possible, but it's not gonna happen by itself. If we reduce and end the use of animals for entertainment, food, clothing and experiments, we will have a civilised society in which not only the interests of humans are central, but of all living beings. In short, we can achieve a sustainable society in which you feel at home, in which you feel safe and to which everyone can contribute with pleasure, but then we will have to get rid of our one-sided focus on the growth of gross domestic product as a measure of our prosperity. We will need to be guided more by other indicators, such as the level of safety in our society, our ecological footprint, community spirit and human, animal and nature health and well-being. I should like to say this in response to yesterday's intervention by the Minister of Finance in the House of Representatives, on the contrary, to those one-sided growth models of the Central Planning Bureau which do not or hardly take into account the effects of our actions on ourselves and the consequences in other countries. The growing imbalance in the world and the related conflicts and refugee crises as identified in the Throne speech can only be resolved by other choices. Stop the aggressive export policy via TTIP and CETA, stop the arms trade and work on climate change. You're not gonna make it with money for the armed forces. It is fundamental choices that shine through absence in this Millions note. I'm rounding up. I hope that Dutch citizens will no longer let themselves be cast in the eyes with promises of endless economic growth and cows with golden horns. In this context, I also believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u573	Mr. Chairman. All the messages about Prince's Day reminded me of advertising leaflets that are delivered to people's homes every week: beautiful offers, beautiful words and very beautiful pictures. Then you are in the shop, you look at the offer very carefully and the chances are very high that it is disappointing. I'm sure you've experienced it. I feel the same way now. It's advertising language. They are proposals that look nice, but in practice are very disappointing. For example, the offer is often: washing powder of €5.60 now for €4.99. Last month, however, the same pack of washing powder cost only €4.50. The same applies to the purchasing power of older people. In the plans presented yesterday, purchasing power for most Dutch people is slightly increased, even for pensioners in our country, albeit slightly less. It is good to stress that 23% of pensioners are falling by more than 5%. So many pensioners are going backwards, or they get a small election tip. It's not the first time. The last few years have been the same. As a result, the gap between workers and non-working people grew. And all under the inspiring theme of this VVD/PvdA cabinet: building bridges. By order of the government, a balanced purchasing power policy was discussed in the speech of the throne. When a cabinet uses the word "balanced" so often too often, you start to doubt. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: what do you mean by a balanced purchasing power policy? What and who should be in balance? Is it balanced that older people have fallen well behind? The difference between workers and pensioners is and remains large. In 2016, workers increased by around 3%, while pensioners declined by up to 9%. The gap was already created in 2007, and has widened in recent years and will continue to grow and thus be maintained next year. The gorge is now a canyon. For some, it's 30%. Is that a balanced purchasing power policy? The purchasing power of pensioners moves largely along the zero line, while many workers are getting a plus. That difference must be brought to an end; that is what we call the largest elderly organisation, KBO-PCOB. 50PLUS strongly agrees with them. The Nibud also warned that the plus that some elderly people are allowed to write is so small that people don't even notice it in their wallet. The ANBO, like us, points to the widening gap between early retirement and pensioners on the one hand and workers on the other. Can I just say that the elderly organisations and 50PLUS have always called that out in recent years? It was laughed away, waved away and sometimes completely ignored. And now, 175 days before the election, some parties think they can make good decoration with a cheap offer. But the people at home know better. In the Throne speech, there was no mention of pensions. It's weird. Many Dutch people are rightly worried about their pension. They indicate in polls that this is a very important theme for them. In the Millions note, however, there is a lot of talk about pensions. For example, on page 17, we read: "The financial position of pension funds is under pressure, which may lead to increases in contributions and/or reductions in members' pension claims." One page further says: workers in particular improved through rising wages and lower pension contributions. That's what they used to call my house "a wibble-wave reasoning." My dad used to say, "I want you to explain that to me." And I would also like to put that question to the Prime Minister. Explain that again. Because was it a sensible choice to reduce pension contributions? 50PLUS has always opposed this, precisely because it provides a good pension for pensioners of the future. We have seen in recent years that most pensions were no longer indexed and sometimes even reduced. This is a disgrace to the people who have built the Netherlands and who had expected a carefree old age. The discussion is heavily polluted by pumping in the image of "old people are rich" while a million elderly people have no or just enough savings to pay for their own funeral. Most older people have experienced the decline in purchasing power. In three months' time, new pension discounts will be threatened, but they will be permanent. Experts have already calculated that the really big blow will fall in 2019. 50PLUS therefore asks two questions. Is shorting fair and necessary? And is shorting inevitable? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is not fair to penalise a large part of the population on account of its age. It's not necessary either. The pension funds built up by the people in this country are more than sufficient and are among the highest in the world. The pots have even doubled in the crisis years, from 700 billion to 1,200 billion today, with still high yields. So there's no need for shorts. Surely it is madness that the government of people with savings assumes that they can make up to 5.5% return, while pension funds, which actually make much more return, have to count with a much lower, artificial percentage. Just last week, the Secretary of State for SZW announced that she didn't want to play the buttons. But pensioners know only too well that they will be able to play the game on 15 March. There are still too many people in our country who do not have a job, people who want to go to work, but who cannot find a job or who do not have a job, and that often applies not only to young people but only to flexible jobs for a short period of time. Yes, fortunately, the number of unemployed is falling slightly, but we cannot rest. This subject deserves our attention, in particular the group of older unemployed. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, all measures to combat older people's unemployment, the Action Plan Perspective for 50-plussers, are weak. We shall come back to this when we discuss the budget of SZW. I am now asking the Prime Minister how we can prevent older workers from being so often caught up when they start off after a company's bankruptcy. They can't go back. Is Minister Asscher's reference to equal treatment legislation sufficient? Is that gonna take something extra? Or is it simply impossible to give the principle of reflection a chance here too? Although the unemployment rates look a bit better, 50PLUS does not want to ignore the fact that in the last seven years 112,000 extra people have entered the assistance. Now I also understand why the word 'unemployed' is in the Millions Note 40 times... to make good decoration with a success.. and the word 'aid' only twice. I would like a response to that. If it's 50PLUS, we're going to change the way we've regulated healthcare in the Netherlands. The high own risk, market forces, bureaucracy, all the harrowing stories about avoiding care, too much paperwork, new waiting lists and profit payments by health insurance companies are a cause for this. 50PLUS realizes that changing the care system is not an easy task, but that should not be a reason to stick only patches to the current system without working on a possible new and fairer system. Let it be clear that, within the existing resources, we need to ensure a fairer system. 50PLUS believes that. And no, we don't throw away old shoes until we get new ones. Let us focus on preventing diseases and healthcare costs. Prevention is better than cure, for everyone's well-being and for everyone's wallet. Let me give you a few examples: moving more for young and old, vaccination programmes for the elderly and encouraging healthy nutrition and a healthy lifestyle. We need to provide information and the right care at the right time to prevent worse. This cabinet wants to allow people to live at home on their own for a longer period of time. That's a noble ambition, because most people want it too. However, the cabinet deliberately cut into the available budget that should allow longer living at home in a humane way. In addition, the cabinet has forgotten some things, such as ensuring adequate housing. Fire safety and personal safety, the overload of carers, the problems of community care and nursing homes, and finally increased loneliness among the elderly, have also been forgotten. But this also applies to the fact that people can turn the buttons at home on 15 March. Finally. 50PLUS knows only too well that money is not everything to live a happy life. Happiness is also in good health, safety, solidarity, decency and the feeling of belonging. There's a huge assignment for the next cabinet. Unfortunately, the VVD and the Labour Party have not succeeded in making progress on these points. We know that this is not an easy task, but let us be clear: 50PLUS is a co-operating partner. With the wisdom of our constituents, we can also play our part in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u574	Mr. Chairman. This year the cabinet will receive the top prize, the top prize for euphoria: strong from the crisis, lots of jobs, economy in the elevator! This is just a selection of the texts of this cabinet. It's like the most important author of the Millions Note is Emile Ratelband. This is the Tchakka Millions note with nothing but uplifting and positive slogans to conceal the worrisome state of the country, of course in view of the elections. This cabinet is actually pretending that there is now one big birthday party going on in the Netherlands. I'm starting to see how it went at the last Council of Ministers. The Prime Minister stands at the conference table smiling and cuts the birthday cake. If Minister Asscher then wants to grab a piece of cake, the Prime Minister calls: fuck off, wait your turn, first the VVD! In the meantime, Minister Van der Steur is eagerly looking for the ticket from the party garlands that MP Teeven has lost. Minister Schippers, of course, has a duty of his own. She got it from the health insurance company. My job is better than any other job, she says, while she eats the cake with whipped cream on her face. All other VVD executives dance with each other on the music of the rapper Boef. Minister Hennis seems to have bought a CD from him after her campaign talk at RTL Late Night. Like every birthday party, you also have a group of people who are not in the party mood. Minister Asscher and the other PvdA executives sit together in a corner. No one's saying one word. Minister Dijsselbloem is watching, while the VVD executives are getting more and more drunk, with festered eyes out the window. He realizes that his party had to pay all the costs for the VVD party. The cabinet puts on the party hat while there is no party mood at all in the country. Of the 100 people, 59 give no indication of the attracting economy. 800,000 households with problematic debts. One million people living below the poverty line. 421,000 children growing up in poverty. 650,000 people avoiding care for money. 15% of students can no longer live in rooms. 521,000 unemployed have nothing to do with a slogan like "many jobs in it." Yet, just like last year, this cabinet talks nicely from the chakka-Millions note. Because the elections are coming, the coalition parties VVD and PvdA want to conceal the breakdown they caused by scattering crumbs here and there. That is the game that is being played here in The Hague. Last year I called that the pacifier budget. And this year, people are getting a placebo budget shoved down the throat. A nicely described remedy for all problems; alone, without active substance. That is why I would like to say to everyone: don't fall for it. Six months until the elections and the Netherlands rebuts, hardens and undermines even worse than it already did. No one wants to rule with the PVV, but all parties talk more and more about people with a migrant background. In fact, I don't blame the voters who have become xenophobic by these parties at all. Who I do blame are those political parties that have stirred up fear and hatred and certain media that willingly take over and magnify these splitting messages. However, we are at a crossroads in history. The world is changing and the Netherlands must change with it. That change is inevitable, whether you like it or not. Time is ticking ahead and not back. A new generation of politicians stands for the decision on how to deal with this change. Then it is not about age, because I also count Mr Krol among the new generation of politicians, for example. The question is what we choose. Do we choose fear or are we going forward bravely? Do we choose the establishment or the new sound? Are we in favour of the great differences in wealth or solidarity? In the scared Netherlands diversity is a problem. The emphasis is on integration, adaptation, "you have to do as I say" and box thinking. The brave Netherlands is from brave people like Farid Azarkan and many other brave Dutchmen. A Netherlands in which the Dutchmanship binds people rather than divides along ethnic and cultural lines. A Netherlands in which we claim the Netherlands and regain our Dutch flag from the hands of the extreme right. For that occasion I put on a red-and-white-blue tie today, because DENK stands for that brave Netherlands. In the Netherlands of the established order, the top of business is dominated by men. The Netherlands of the new sound is from people like Sylvana Simons and many others. A Netherlands in which people not only talk and participate but also decide. DENK stands for the Netherlands of the new sound. In the Netherlands, Shell's top man gets 24 million euros in one year, while more than one million people live below the poverty line. The Netherlands of solidarity belongs to people like Selçuk Öztürk and many others. A Netherlands that reduces the gap between rich and poor, tackling bonuses and excessive rewards and tackling poverty with top priority. DENK stands for this solidarity in the Netherlands. Finally, I'm gonna make a confession. In the deepest secret, we have created a click list of the old generation of politicians. Many people in our country have spoken to me or e-mailed me about the predecessors of the established political parties. Those politicians left the country worse than they found it, was the tone of the general message. In place three stands in a shared place Diederik Samsom together with Louis Asscher. Those men failed to protect our social achievements because they were tempted by Rutte's smooth talk. In second place is Mark Rutte, the man of the "pleasure" and the "fight," who preaches with a great smile greed and egocentrism. In place one is Geert Wilders, the man who has been raging against minorities for twenty years, the man who has beaten the Constitution's xenophobic boot. The Netherlands is also my country, the Netherlands of people with various Dutch backgrounds. At the time Mr Wilders decided today that this is not my country, he did not just say that to me. He said that to a lot of people with different ethnic backgrounds. I was actually sad that only one Member of Parliament stood up to make a point of that, because it is not just a story that touches me. This story affects a lot of people in this Chamber, including you, chairman, and also a lot of people in the country. I thank Mr Klaver for being the only one standing up to make a point of this. During dinner break I walked out. I ran into a group of young Dutch boys from The Hague. They put a heart in my heart and felt it was very necessary that we made this sound. I got hope. We are building our hopes on that new generation, which must be represented by a new generation of politicians. People who choose their supporters instead of the plush. People who choose transparency instead of backrooms. People who choose ideals instead of bureaucracy. I want to finish with that hope. 15 March 2017 will be a historic day. Anyone who looks or listens now has two choices. You can read history back in a book, a newspaper or a magazine, or you can help write history. Dare to choose a better Netherlands. Dare to choose a new generation of people's representatives. Dare to choose DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u575	Mr. Chairman. Lies and broken promises, that's the result of four long years of Rutte II. From €1000 for working Netherlands to no money to the Greeks: the VVD-chooser was cheated every time. This Prime Minister considered the plush to be more important than his constituents for years, but now, in election time, the VVD says sorry for all those broken promises. It's transparent and hypocritical. It is a gross insult to millions of Dutch people. And where are all the other excuses from our apology prime minister, for ignoring the "no" at the Ukraine referendum for months and for the still missing radar images of the attack on MH17? I thought you said the bottom rock would come up. I thought Rutte was gonna personally make sure the perpetrators were punished. We can go on like this for a while. When does the Prime Minister say sorry for the neglect of our security, for closing half of all police stations, for the major financial deficits in the Justice Department? The extra money the cabinet reserves for 2017 is a cloth for bleeding. The helm really needs to change. We need to invest heavily in our safety. We say 1 billion extra for police and justice. Because only in the fairy tale world of the VVD has the Netherlands become safer. In reality, thousands of convicted criminals are free and the prisons are empty. The VVD Secretary of State, Dijkhoff, even wants to give leave to life sentences. Terrible assassins and terrorists like Mohammed B. will be freed if possible. Hard blow to the face of the next of kin. Another broken promise, but what else would we expect from the VVD? More punishment and less understanding of criminals was once the slogan. Prime Minister Rutte promised that Volkert van der Graaf would never get out early, but Volkert is walking around again and laughing at everyone. Not the police, but the thugs are the boss on the street. We saw that in Zaandam and we see that everywhere in the Netherlands. We say these criminals don't need a community center, they need the long bar. Whoever can apologize very quickly is the VVD Minister of Defense. While the threat of terror has never been so great and we are at war with ISIS, our armed forces are in a depravable state. There aren't even enough helmets and bullets. It's a self-respecting country unworthy. A cabinet that deals with its military like this doesn't deserve to rule. We say that our military does not need millions but billions. There must be more than 5 billion to Defence so that the Netherlands finally meets the agreed NATO standards. The world's unrest calls for strong answers, and that also means a strict immigration and asylum policy. Over the past year, many tens of thousands of asylum seekers have entered our country. Many were not or hardly screened by failing cabinet policies. The result? War criminals, rapists and ISIS terrorists within our gates. Thank you, Klaas! Thank you, VVD! Rutte-II is a danger to the Netherlands and so is the European Union. The EU is an undemocratic monstrosity. The EU must return to its core: only economic cooperation. All other powers must be taken back from Brussels. Like the majority of the Dutch population, we are in favour of a nexit referendum. The Netherlands must be independent and sovereign again. We want our country back. Not Brussels, but we ourselves have to decide who we will admit to our country. Countries such as Australia and the United States place high demands on their immigrants. Why don't we? That it is badly needed, we can see from the totally failed integration of non-Western immigrants in our country. The failing ideology of multiculturalism leaves deep traces. Thousands of Lower Turks are loyal to the despot Erdogan. They were all on the Erasmus Bridge a month ago. It was like a Turkish occupation force. It was a disgrace for Rotterdam and a disgrace for the Netherlands. For years, radical Muslims could easily expand their influence. Violence imams weren't put in the way of strawbreed. The Hague VVD mayor even worked with a salafistic mosque to maintain order in his city. But now, in election time, the tough right-wing VVD talks come back. Minister Schippers wants to fight radical Islam all of a sudden. What do you mean, hypocrite? What do you mean, completely unbelievable? They are the first false promises of the new VVD campaign and many more will follow. But the voter isn't crazy and he's gonna pierce through this time. The Netherlands is looking for more freedom, more security and more prosperity. What our country needs more than ever is a drastic reduction in taxes. But in recent years, the VVD has increased the burden by billions. The VVD showed her true face of socialism and leveling. The fact that this VVD cabinet takes people up to 52% of their income is a fine on work, a brake on ambition and a punishment for success. It's legalized theft. We want one low tax rate for everyone, a flat tax of 25%. We reduce VAT to 15%. We are abolishing the inheritance and gift tax altogether. We are also reducing excise duties, corporation tax and the capital efficiency tax. Our ideas lead to much more purchasing power, much more economic growth and much more jobs. We are putting an end to the government's bush. We stand up for the hardworking Netherlands, for the middle class, for all those people who hear their alarm clock in the morning and go to work, for all those people who are tired of having their hard-earned taxpayers' money given away by the VVD to asylum seekers, to African dictators and to the EU. I'm rounding up. Many Dutch people crave low taxes, more security, fewer immigration, less EU. That is our commitment to the elections. The right-wing voters have nothing to do with lying and cheating VVD politicians and they also have zero point zero to an unfeasible PVV-A4'. The Netherlands deserves better. We're ready, Jan Roos is ready. It's time for a change. It's time for VNL.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u576	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u577	Mr. Chairman. Why does an elephant have red nails? He won't notice in a strawberry field. Have you ever seen an elephant in a strawberry field? No, you see, it's because of the red nails! That is precisely the situation in which this cabinet has become involved: the cabinet no longer sees the elephant. The cabinet only sees the summer queens. It sees only the advantages of its own policy of the past reign, and has no regard whatsoever for the elephant that is still there, for all the problems that this cabinet has left behind or caused. That is, of course, extremely ludicrous, and we continue to be optimistic about it! At first, the cabinet had the idea of building bridges, over the last four years this has led to the burning of ships behind them. The result is that we are now living in a country where unnecessary savings have been made instead of investment, a country where certainties have become uncertain, a country in which confidence has been lost, a country which prefers to reverse measures, a country in which the base is shaky. Our humanistic, liberal roots have been exchanged for fear and uncertainty. Perspective has been exchanged for puppies and wets. The challenge for the coming years is to get that base back and make it solid. Free-minded politics means: fix the basics. We are doing so by renewing a social system of solidarity, not as a safety net, but as a springboard to be free so that people can develop and develop. That is why we opt for an unconditional basic income for everyone aged 18 and over, a basic income based on opportunities for people to use their talents and their knowledge and skills. It means a major reform for our ruined benefit system, but it means much more a fundamentally different vision of work, namely work not from the idea of "who does not work, will not eat," but work as a positive motivation, as the way in which people can give meaning to their own lives, as the way in which people can contribute to society as they see fit. This contribution can then be paid as well as unpaid. The starting point is people's own initiative and confidence in their willingness to do so. Unpaid volunteering and self-entrepreneurship are both invaluable to our modern society. A basic income offers room for everyone. Fix the basics applies to the way we deal with our youth. The basis of tomorrow's society is today's young people. If that base is neglected, the basis for our future will disappear. That neglect has struck. The problems in youth care are considerable due to increased commercialisation. Child places mean earning models and not care. Parents and children run into walls and some families are made homeless and forced to survive in the car. Emergency workers must be able to provide help from their base, their heart. Legal assistance should not be undermined by the dismantling of subsidised legal aid. Freedom of choice must remain possible for everyone, including or above all for vulnerable groups. Fix the basics for young people means accessible education without financial barriers. The liberal politics therefore advocates an education without tuition, which is an inappropriate risk for students. Fix the basics also means the freedom for people to decide when to retire. That means a flexible AOW. My initiative law will give people room for this. Fix the basics also means for health care that the emphasis is placed on health rather than on care. The system is too focused on cure and how people need to get better. Instead of preventing people from getting sick, we are stuffing sick people with increasingly expensive medicines. We do not have to waste money by changing the system, but we are bringing the system back to the basis as it was meant to be: a fair, non-commercial basic insurance for everyone to be able to participate in health; to participate in everyone's own assets in an inclusive society. Fix the basics also means redirecting our money system to the original system. Money is a means of exchange that enables people to obtain goods and services. Money should not be a trade with which banks can enrich themselves at the expense of society. Money creation must therefore be a purely government matter. I'm rounding up. Fix the basics means a re-evaluation of our Constitution, not to beat each other up with articles on freedoms, but to launch a social debate and to anchor our fundamental rights as the starting points of our country, a safe country, a country with room for freedom. The Free Party is going to fix what the rigid parties can't possibly fix. So we're heading for a new day, a tilting, a new liberal future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u578	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the cabinet, the civil servants, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
