ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome you all to this Chamber: both the speakers and their support, as well as the people in the public gallery and all those who follow this meeting through the media. Of course, I would like to welcome the govern ment with its official support in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill that regulates reports of inspections in our country to be made public in such a way that there is no need to invoke the Public Administration Act. This applies to the Dutch Food and War Authority, the Health Care Inspectorate, the Safety and Justice Inspectorate and the Youth Care Inspectorate. It's a good thing we're doing that. It is good that we always make the reports of our inspections public in principle, because we have them for a reason. We have our inspections to see if there is food safety and patient safety in our country. If it's at stake, you shouldn't make it public. Then it must be known. Of course, it is paramount that it should also lead to improvements. I'll get to that. It is of course very important that the sector learns from inspections and monitoring, but that should not be the reason for not making reports public. Our group is well known for calling for frequent and frequent attention to the operation of our inspections and their reporting. I would like to mention the example of fish processing plant Foppen. Eventually it came to light that this company didn't take it so close to hygiene, and thus food safety and therefore human health. Tens of thousands of people have become ill because of salmonella in salmon. There have even been deaths. This has been a big issue in the media, because it turned out on the basis of WOB studies that the Dutch Food and Waren Authority (NVWA) knew that it wasn't very good at Foppen. The company had been fined, but they weren't that high. The fines that you can impose on companies that run food safety have been increased as a result of this case. An appeal to the Public Administration Act made it clear that this company did not meet the food safety standards in our country. Last Tuesday, my colleague Van Gerven again asked questions about food companies, in this case chicken slaughterhouses. A WOB request from the media, after a procedure of almost one and a half years, made it clear that there are huge abuses there. There's sick chicken on the market, but we don't really know what the NVWA is doing with it. In such cases, the inspection appears to be a lapdog instead of a watchdog. This also needs to be transparent. That's the second element. Of course we have the learning aspect for the sector, with all the associated things like fines and sanctions, but what are our inspections actually doing on behalf of all of us in the area of supervision? This is often not made public. That leads to sad situations. I call Renata, an 8-year-old Polish girl. She had leukemia, but was deported by Secretary of State Teeven in 2012. She was actually too sick. After a fuss she could return to the Netherlands. After complications in a necessary operation, she died. Turns out what? The inspection doesn't want to make the report public. Her parents, just lost their daughter, get a report with black-painted passages in it. Who's gonna be protected? You can't imagine that. You lose your child and then parts of the reporting may not be made public. Is that in the interests of the hospital? Is it in the interest of this cabinet's expulsion practices? We don't know, but at least the truth about Renata's death was violated. What about baby Jelmer's situation? This is a matter that we all know, for which excuses have been made by the minister and by the hospital where, unfortunately, baby Jelmer has become permanently disabled after major mistakes during the operation. The National Ombudsman investigated the operation of the Health Inspectorate. Again there are excuses, but still nine years later the parents have to sue the hospital because their baby, their Jelmer, now 9 years old, became disabled by surgery. Could it have helped to stop this endless legal battle from making public what happened there, what went wrong there? Doesn't the Minister think he should stop at all? This week I received answers to parliamentary questions that I asked about a death at an institution in Amsterdam, Cordaan. A 19-year-old girl chokes heavily in food while there is insufficient supervision. The staff does what they can, but they don't know how to act. The girl goes into a coma in the hospital, battered by CPR attempts, and eventually her life ends because there's no perspective anymore. The parents are still devastated. It happened three years ago. They had to wait two years for a proper investigation from the inspection. That is sad enough, but then the calamity report comes and then there are quite shocking things in it, namely that there is a chance that this kind of fact will be repeated. That's exactly what we have an inspection for, isn't it? He needs to look at patient safety. If there is a chance of repetition, we should know that, shouldn't we? No, the report isn't public yet. The parents have done their story in the paper, but the report is not yet public. Then you'll only have a child or a partner or a parent living in that institution. The answers to Parliament's questions showed that over the last ten years, 300 cases of calamity have been reported, such as abuse, sexual abuse, asphyxiation, asphyxiation, medication errors, staff shortages and falls. That's been investigated 60 times, but those reports aren't public. I'll get them, but they're not public. I actually find that problematic, because when the infamous blacklist of the nursing home sector came, the institution did the press release itself: we are not on it. But is it really as safe there as we hope it is and as it now seems that it is there? The Child Welfare Inspectorate does make emergency reports public. It's never nice when a child dies and certainly not after a fall from a flat, like in Hogeveen. It's a nightmare for a parent when you get a call in the middle of the night with that news. But that inspection report is public and you can read in it what went wrong. That is what the whole sector can learn from. If in one situation, because you say you want to protect people, you don't make reports public and in other cases you do, it's not clear. We would like the emergency reports to be made public. We have tried to put that into an amendment. It may well be that there are still legal problems, but I ask the Minister to think with me. A calamity report of the inspection describes the calamity, then the course of that calamity is described as what happened at what time, who did what was done and then comes to a conclusion how did this happen? but also recommendations to the institution. What does the inspection itself do to monitor this? I think we should move on to the next situation. The description of the course of the calamity.... who did what when? As I know from my own experience, it can cover many pages. That doesn't need to be made public. That affects personal situations. They are sometimes people who have acted to their honour and conscience but where it has not gone well. Well, it's good to know there's been a calamity. Suppose someone died unnaturally in an institution, then it makes sense to know what the outcome of the inspection investigation is, what measures are being taken to prevent errors made by an institution in the future and how the inspection will monitor them. I think it makes sense for us to make that calamity report public. Can the Minister respond to that? The Minister argues that institutions and companies, and certainly individuals, deserve a certain level of protection. I agree with that, and that is why we need to ensure that such reporting is not transparent at the level of detail and person, except for those involved and the institution itself. However, we need to know that it is there. What I just read was about Cordaan: 300 times in the last ten years. That's all in reports that aren't public. I'm afraid it happens all the time. If you are involved in the inspection of such an institution but do not have all the calamities reports at your disposal, you may not have a good idea of that institution either. The media attention to cases may be a reason not to make a report public. I think that's one of those calamities reports. I think it works the other way around. People who want the truth to come to light and feel that it doesn't, go to the media. You give people a sense of satisfaction when they have insight into what has been investigated, that it has been properly investigated, and what the institution should do. Then less need will be felt to tell sad situations to the media. We're going to go to active disclosure of reports. I have the impression that it is not completely harmonised between all the different inspections. Can the Minister indicate exactly what policy is going to be followed? Can she also explain why it may take five years before the Dutch Food and War Authority (NVWA) is ready to actively make everything public? We were talking about the WOB situation with regard to those chicken slaughterhouses. That disclosure took a year and a half and it turns out that last year's reports were not included because they were not part of the WOB procedure. Parliamentary questions are asked about this, after which the State Secretary of EZ still undertakes to make those reports public. Surely the NVWA could have foreseen that they would still be asked? I ask the Minister if it could be done sooner in the future. If we can do it sooner, should we settle that in the law? Or can the Minister promise that this will happen sooner? I come to the reaction of those involved in disclosure. The VVD has tabled an amendment to that effect. As far as we are concerned, it is a good idea to include that reaction if the person himself wants it. It can be very relevant to know why an institution, a counselor or a restaurant does not agree. Disclosure is a form of hearing and hearing again. I haven't quite figured out the color codes yet. The NVWA uses colour profiles with which we can see whether there is hygienic work in the hospitality industry or not. Red shouldn't be allowed to happen. The inspection says in red: either you close up, or there's a vision of improvement. In the latter case, it becomes orange or yellow, but red cannot actually exist. After all, we have found that it is unsafe. Can the Minister confirm that? If something is orange or yellow, you may wonder whether that is the responsibility of the consumer. No, but it makes sense to know. At the moment we are looking at whether this can also be done in child care. I still have some doubts, but I think the Minister is also in doubt. Last year, she wrote on 30 October that she found this form of disclosure unambiguous, but this year she wrote on 6 June that this is not the case, because this does not reflect the actual situation in a company or institution, and that she does not really want the colour codes anymore. Can the Minister explain this a little more? After all, I'm struggling with this. I have also always said that we are suffering from a label mafia, where you can get a label for something that is really not right. In the meantime, at least in the Committee on Health, Well-being and Sport, we have come to the conclusion that labels are not the means to improve quality and that they often lack quality. Do I need to see the decision about the minister on the color codes in that line? Or are there other things underneath that? And if this isn't possible, how could it be? There is talk of a merger between the Health Inspectorate and the Youth Inspectorate, because all kinds of institutions actually serve the same target group. There's a law in preparation to shape that merger. I am not necessarily opposed to a merger if it actually serves supervision, but I am still not convinced of it. Does the Minister consider that after the discussions of recent years on its supervision and its supervisory role, the Health Inspectorate is sufficiently in order to be able to cope with such a merger process? After all, we know that this organizationally requires a lot of organisations. Is there much difference in their supervision, in the way they deal with reporting and with disclosure? Is there much difference in how they deal with "eropaf" or supervise on the basis of lists? Can the Minister sort this out for us? We would like to call on the Minister not to proceed to a rapid merger if it is not clear that the organisations can actually handle it. The day before yesterday we learned of the fact that an entire industry, through the interbranch organisation of the nursing homes, said that it was no longer participating in quality data on drugging people, i.e. psychopharmaceuticals, and on the bonding of people called "fixing' because it was found to be too many ticking lists and because it did not see the blacklist that was made public before the summer. I want to hear clearly from the Minister today that this is not possible. A sector cannot escape quality control. Nor can a sector enforce that it is not made public which institutions are considered unsafe by the inspection. That is why. Things were getting tough for the summer. There was a list of 150 institutions that have been viewed for two years on the basis of incoming notifications, monitoring and visits. It also showed that there were a few really unsafe. It is not nice if you get that as an institution, but if you, as the whole sector, are actually blocking that openness by putting this blackmail on the table, I would very much like to say today, and I would also invite the Minister to get used to the fact that it is becoming public how quality is done. After all, we have been working on this for a long time, with transparency requirements and sites like kiesbeter.nl. They're all based on their own data. Now we have inspection supervision that is being made more active public. That may hurt, but that is in your lesson, best institution, so that you get better and so that the whole healthcare system is raised to a higher level. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's clear statement that we are not going to bow down to the blackmail of ActiZ and that we are also very quickly ensuring that the institutions that do not now provide data on drugging and tying people are simply sanctioned. I'm not into fine-giving at all. I am, certainly at this point, always looking together to see how you can get better, but when a whole sector draws such a line, I really think we should say that we do not cross that line at all. We define the boundaries here, not the sector. So I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to the publication of these emergency reports, albeit without the personal data in them. I think that's supposed to be monitoring. I would also like to hear her response to the merger of the inspections and to the disclosure period, including those five years of the Dutch Food and War Authority. I would also like to hear how she views an entire sector which has now announced that it will not be subject to inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Bergkamp. She speaks on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. There is not often said "Democrats 66," but I feel called to start. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I agree with the words of the Socialist Party that it is impossible for an entire sector, an industry, to say that we do not comply with quality control. That scared me. I'm disappointed about that, too, watching ActiZ. I agree with what Mrs Leijten said: I too would like to clarify this in this debate today. There's a lot to say about the whole process of getting to that list. I also expressed my concerns about this in the previous debate and said that I think it should have been more careful, but that does not mean that as a sector you can say: we are no longer participating. I'll give you this as a kick-off, based on current events. Today we are talking about the legislation for the active disclosure of inspection reports. D66 welcomes this proposal. It is good to formalise transparency so that patients, clients, citizens, businesses and organisations know what they are entitled to and, also important, so that they know what is going on. The active disclosure of data also contributes to regulatory compliance. Those are good starting points. We hope, therefore, that there will be no unnecessary WOB procedures here, as was, for example, the situation with the Dutch Food and War Authority for some time. It is a good thing that she also makes her reports public by default when this law is passed, later in the Upper House as well. Mrs Leijten spoke in her contribution about a period of five years. I know the NVWA is in the middle of a major reorganisation. I hope that she will come to the transparency we are talking about sooner. That can't be the situation in five years, can it? I would like clarification from the Minister on this. As a group, we still have a lot of questions about the bill. This legislative proposal regulates the disclosure of data, but the General Measure of Management will regulate the data to be disclosed. With that, the law is pretty empty. That also makes the debate a little complicated, because what data are we talking about today? D66 considers that the General Measure of Governance is also a fairly fundamental part of this law. That is why I tabled an amendment on this subject together with Mrs Bruins Slot. It says that this General Measure of Governance really needs to be sent to the Chamber, so that we also have access to the information that needs to be made public. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I think it is important that the cabinet also explains how it is going to ensure that that information is accessible, clear, unambiguous and objectively presented. That must of course be done in conjunction with the inspection, but that is the aim. How does the cabinet intend to improve or adapt this compared to current practice? The law also has something punitive, something punitive. I would therefore also like to look at the implications for practice. Transparency is important, but it must be done carefully. How is this due diligence regulated by this law? Or what are the ideas for the General Measure of Governance? I would like to make a suggestion on behalf of D66 and also the VVD. We have tabled an amendment together to formalise hearing again. This is also common practice with the Dutch Food and War Authority, but there it is in a policy rule. We think it is important that this is regulated as a basis in the law. The party under investigation shall be able to provide a brief written response to the findings. This is then also posted on the website. That's not higher math, but it's so transparent. We therefore consider a legal anchoring to be important. Of course: the whole effect can then be achieved in a General Measure of Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u5	I have a factual question about the explanation of the amendment, i.e. its scope. It is indeed a matter of giving an opinion, but is it a matter of giving an opinion on the decision to impose a particular sanction? Or is this giving an opinion on the decision to disclose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u6	That's a clear question. The first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u7	Fine, that's nice to hear. That is the decision to impose the penalty. You use the word "decision" in the amendment, which means that only decisions are covered by the General Administrative Law Act. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u8	I'm just thinking... I'll come back to that in my second term, before I start saying something I might regret afterwards. But perhaps Mrs Bruins Slot can also help me by explaining where the question comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u9	Yes, let me explain. When I read the amendment, I also read back what the Minister said in her speech. I would therefore particularly like to look at how the amendment relates to the texts of the Ministry. This concerns page 27 of the note following the report, which is easy for everyone to read. It states that the starting point of the legislative proposal is that a proposed decision on disclosure should in principle not be subject to an opinion, but that, as an exception, it should be possible to do so by means of a proposed decision on disclosure of an AWB decision. So I wondered how what the Minister wrote in the note on the report relates to the amendment tabled by Mrs Bergkamp. Perhaps the Minister could also comment on this in her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u10	In your own contribution, you will also have plenty of opportunity to put that to her, Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u11	Well, I would also like to help Mrs Bruins Slot by putting that question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u12	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u13	I think it is good that the Minister also interprets the amendment of the VVD and D66 in relation to what she has said in the note. I therefore thank Mrs Bruins Slot for her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u14	Clear. You continue your argument
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u15	The starting point of this legislative proposal is that disclosure is not intended to add suffering to those concerned. So it's actually not punitive. I would therefore like to hear how the Minister will ensure that information remains up-to-date. And how long will reports remain on the authorities' websites? Is that until there's a new report? I also refer to an amendment I tabled together with the VVD, which could provide a solution to improve this process. I trust that Mr De Lange will explain this further. This bill not only contributes to the learning capacity of organisations. It's also there for clients and family members. For example, think of parents of children in child care or of people with a family member in a nursing home. I am also thinking of food safety at lunchroom X; I will not mention a name. It is important that we know what is going on and how it is going when the inspection has carried out a check. What is the division of tasks between ministries and inspections? Who's gonna decide when something's gonna go public? The Minister should correct me if I am wrong, but sometimes I really have the idea that the Ministry is sending in there, at least in communication. Take as an example the investigation into placement without judicial authorisation in forced youth care. I think the Secretary of State was at the wheel. It also took quite a long time for the data to come out. How will this be prevented in the future? I now come specifically to the Youth Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate. What does this law mean for these organisations? In fact, both inspections already actively disclose information. Frankly, the Minister's reply did not reveal what is going to be materially changed. How far are the inspections going with the preparations? Is their public access policy ready yet? Can I.T. handle it? We want more uniformity. We want clarity on what is being made public when and how, and what forms of hearing and hearing have taken place. An interdepartmental working group was launched in 2015. We were able to read that in the Minister's papers. This working group investigated the feasibility of a uniform disclosure regime. What's the status? What conclusions can be drawn from this? Is it feasible to include a scheme in the General Administrative Law? After all, it is still lacking. D66 welcomes the transparency of data. However, we do think it is important that the guarantee is complied with in the case of personal data. In the explanatory statement there are two passages which suggest to me that the door is still open. These are the following sentences: "It should be proposed that the disclosure of inspection data for the most part does not relate to personal data." And: "There are few conceivable cases where the disclosure of special information is necessary to implement this law." I would like a response from the Minister. What cases are we talking about? And how do we deal with personal data in these situations? Finally, I would like to ask one more question. In fact, there are two public access laws: the public-law WOB and the private-law regulation of the Health Act. Isn't that unclear for citizens and businesses? Where should one be for what? And who's actually doing what? In other words, what is what? I would like an explanation from the Minister on this point. It is important that communication is clear to everyone. After all, we want transparency. We don't want people getting lost in a new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. The intention to publish inspection reports has the full support of the PVV Group. We are in all areas in favour of naming-and-shaming, whether it be loverboys, child pornography, failing drivers or food safety. We are not only convinced that citizens are entitled to information that concerns their health and safety, but we are also convinced of the preventive effect of active disclosure. Companies, institutions and individuals are more likely to comply with the rules if they know that any violation is immediately made public. It so-called stimulates one's own responsibility. In addition, it helps citizens to make better choices and to remove mistrust from them. We do not see the objection of unfair competition or image damage as such. Of course, businesses with dirty kitchens, vermin or clogged sewers will have fewer customers, but that is precisely what we are trying to do. It'll encourage them to improve things. A small violation, such as the wrong sticking of stickers on food, is certainly valued by the consumer. We are now familiar with all kinds of test results and associated encodings, such as a five-star encryption, smileys and a color coding. The energy label for electrical appliances, such as vacuum cleaners and washing machines, is probably the best known example of a color coding. The shades of green, to yellow, to orange and to red are clear to everyone. I would therefore stress that I do not agree at all with the Minister that colour coding does not provide an objective picture. The view that consumers would not understand the orange color is incredibly old-fashioned. Companies that have not yet been visited and whose results are not yet known, get the color white. There's a solution to that. These companies can complete the Safe Food Statement at NVWA. An inspector comes by in two months and if everything is all right, the colour can be delivered immediately green. If something isn't right, the entrepreneur gets the chance to fix it, without anything being made public. So that's been really thought through. As far as current affairs are concerned, it's simple. Set the date! It is up to the catering entrepreneur to provide updates, so that the results are up-to-date and correct, for example in the case of company acquisitions. Other countries are far beyond that. I refer to Denmark, England, the United States and China. There the results are not only published online, but the number of stars, the smiley face or the colour is also on the door of the company. The date is also included, so that you are immediately informed as a customer. Moreover, after the introduction of this system, hygiene has increased enormously. Mr President, I see that Mr De Lange wishes to put a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u17	I can see that, but have you finished your subject yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u18	No, I'll just finish my paragraph. That might be more convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u19	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u20	But in the Netherlands, the number of hotels and restaurants that go wrong is increasing. That's the opposite way. I am therefore in favour of maintaining the colour coding. As a catering company, you can also use this to distinguish yourself from your competitors. This is a win-win situation for entrepreneurs and consumers. Perhaps the Minister could explain again why, or perhaps I should ask by whom, she was changed about the color coding. How much money has been invested in developing the color coding system over the past ten years? Are we gonna throw that overboard now? That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u21	I think this is a good time to give Mr De Lange the opportunity to ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mrs. Klever is a passionate advocate for the color coding. It's been experimented with. There's been research on cafeterias and an image has come out of them. Unfortunately not all places in the Netherlands were checked. A few entrepreneurs were visited, a few were not and a number of entrepreneurs remained in the dark. What does Mrs Klever think of the application of a colour coding where not all the parties involved have been checked, so that at least a judgment has been reached? Does she believe that this information can be revealed at that time? Well, that's only half an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u23	I think we now have the situation that the inspection inspects catering establishments. If everything's okay, they'll get the green stamp. If something's wrong, they get yellow or orange. If a catering establishment has to be closed, it gets red. If a catering establishment hasn't been visited yet, it just gets white. I think that's clear to everyone. If a company still wants the colour green, it can fill out the Safe Food Statement and an inspector will come by within two months. Then, provided everything's okay, she can get a green stamp. These inspections are, of course, a continuous process. I do not see Mr De Lange's problem very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u24	That's why I've only been talking to a few entrepreneurs. Does Mrs Klever know what the effect was for the entrepreneurs who got the color white? The explanation was: it must not be quite right, because it is not clear at the moment. Does she know what this does in an environment where there are differences and the entrepreneur cannot explain that his business is in order? You're gonna get talk. That's bad for the image. I have heard Mrs Klever say that she considers entrepreneurial interests to be important. Does she really think that this proposal will help entrepreneurs in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u25	The Chamber has been asking for this for years. This colour system has been working on for ten years. A lot of experience has been gained abroad. If you enter such a color coding system or something with smileys or stars, it is clear to the consumer at a glance: that opportunity has green, or a smiley face or five stars, where I can eat with peace of mind, because there the inspection has been and everything is in order. This ensures that the entrepreneur who has not got green and who is not in order, is going to run extremely fast to make sure that he also has his business in order. This only improves hygiene for all of us; this improves everyone's situation. In Denmark, research has been carried out on this for 10 to 15 years, and there you can see that the situation is improving. In the Netherlands, on the other hand, we do not have that and then you see that the number of incidents involving food safety is increasing. We shouldn't want that, should we? I ask whether Mr De Lange agrees with me that the consumer is entitled to information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u26	This seems to me almost a reversal of the intention, but Mr De Lange has the opportunity to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u27	I have asked Mrs Klever a question, but I think it is the conclusion that the Freedom Party is running away from business interests when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u28	That's not a question. Mrs Klever can continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u29	I want to respond to that. This is bullshit, of course. It is in the interests of all entrepreneurs. When there are stories about scandals in catering establishments, it radiates at all catering companies. If you can show with color coding which companies have been found to be in order, this is only positive for those entrepreneurs who follow the rules properly. I think it is good for the entrepreneurs, because then it is clear that they have their affairs in order. I'd even like to expand the color coding. I read that the Health Inspectorate, the Youth Inspectorate and the Safety and Justice Inspectorate work and produce reports in a similar way. The Minister wants to achieve an optimally harmonised disclosure policy. We wholeheartedly support this, but can we join the NVWA publications with colour coding? The Health Inspectorate puts care institutions under supervision. So that's the color red. I would like to see that again somewhere, on kiesBeter.nl or on the front door of the institution for example. For years, the PVV Group has been calling for a so-called blacklist of healthcare institutions, doctors and drivers who go wrong. We can now make a red list of them. How does the Minister feel about this? Does she want to do some research on that? I have another question about the health department's emergency reports. Are they or are they not actively made public? Is there any new definition of what a calamity is? What sanction is there for not reporting a calamity? The IGZ has conducted a study into the deficiency of thyroid medicine Thyrax. That report was finalised in June, but it will not be made public because there is an objection. What does this law change? Will the Minister answer that? I understand that, in addition to an online horeca inspection card, the NVWA also has an app that indicates by color coding whether a catering company, in this case a lunchroom, complies with the rules. How complete are this website and this app? Is it true that lunchrooms under enhanced supervision or lunchrooms that have recently been closed cannot be found on that app? If so, why? I also wonder how familiar this app is with the public and whether it should not be promoted much more actively. The PVV Group supports this bill, but does advocate the maintenance and, if possible, extension of that colour coding. I hope for a commitment from the Minister on this, otherwise I will have a motion ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mrs Klever will be returning to the non-disclosure of the report on that thyroid medicine Thyrax. What is going on according to the PVV Group? Is the pharmaceutical industry protected here or does it serve patient safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u31	I didn't read the report, because it's not being made public, so I can't rule on that. It is clear that there are interests, because objections have been raised. The point of the patient's privacy is very easy to overcome by painting away the names.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u32	The bill deals with a kind of standstill. There's a report that basically goes public. Those concerned could say that they do not want to do so. The Minister does not mention a time limit for that standstill, so it could have a very long suspensive effect. According to the PVV Group, what should be the deadline in which people can object but after which it becomes public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u33	I agree with Mrs Leijten that it should be as short as possible. If there is an inspection report, it should be made public as soon as possible. One possibility is to publish that objection. This will only improve transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u34	I just feel a nice joint motion coming up. Thank you for your input. I now give the floor to Mr De Lange, who speaks on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. Today we have more information available than ever before. In no time do we know which restaurants do not have the hygiene in order and which hospitals do or do not control their business at all. Through online media, information is flying at us very quickly. The downside is that we do not always know whether this information is up-to-date or not. That is worrying, because we all want to be able to make the best choice, based on up-to-date, complete information, for example when it comes to our health or that of our family and relatives. It is therefore important that we are well informed about the quality of care and that this quality is also guaranteed. In this way we want to be more independent and better informed. The VVD wants people to have the space to make their own choices based on good and correct information. Today we are talking about the possibilities for information to be made public by four different inspections. They carry out research into the quality of, inter alia, healthcare institutions. That is good, because people should be able to assume that care is good and safe in a hospital, in a nursing home or in youth care. Openness is a means of promoting the quality and safety of care. The VVD Group supports this, but notes that the way communication is going to take shape will determine whether it actually contributes to a sense of security. I have the following question. Does the Minister agree with the VVD Group that it is important, in addition to publishing the inspection reports and any sanctions imposed, to briefly summarise the situations in a legal text and in understandable Dutch? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the publication of the inspection reports, but the way in which a report is produced must contribute to a safe and open culture, as has already been mentioned. It is important that people in the workplace themselves know what went wrong and can learn from it. To what extent are openness and the learning aspect at odds with each other? I'd like to have a reflection from the Minister on this. The two-week standstill period will be used to immediately correct, where possible, inaccuracies. But this period should also be used, for example, to reflect on the good communication of a healthcare institution with the outside world, but also to patients, the family and relatives. A negative inspection report not only has a major impact on that institution, but certainly also on all concerned and patients. That will have to be looked at. How can it be ensured that communication between the inspection and the institution is optimally prepared before such a case comes out? The VVD welcomes the intention that there should be a General Measure of Management which regulates the participation in the disclosure of the reports. For the undertakings or institutions concerned, what is to be done must be clear so that they can be anticipated. Therefore, the VVD would like a commitment from the Minister on a number of issues relating to the design of this General Measure. Will this include, for example, a description of exactly what supervisory information is being made public? In what way and in what form is that supervisory information made public? For what duration will the monitoring information remain available on the Internet at the most? We have tabled an amendment, together with D66, on the possibility of disclosure of the response to the views of those involved in supervisory information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u36	The bill states that in principle not all inspection reports are made public. This would not be the case if there was media attention, and it would have to go through a WOB procedure, because it would allow the administrative court to weigh interests and then determine whether disclosure is appropriate. It is then a matter of emergency reports. In my term, I proposed that these calamities reports should be made public in principle, but with the deletion of the descriptions and the course of the calamity, because they contain real personal data, as well as data on whether or not caregivers and institutions act properly. In this way, we can make public the calamity, so the information on what exactly happened, the conclusion of the inspection and the measures or the plan of action required by the inspection of the institution. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u37	Let me begin with the effects of a calamity. The impact of such a thing, so what it does with the people involved, such as relatives but certainly also the people who work in the care themselves, is enormous. So you have to look very carefully at how you want to deal with that. Hence my question about the relationship between public access on the one hand and the learning effect on the other. It is also very important to learn from calamities. I find what Mrs Leijten says in her amendment very interesting. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's response to this. How can we find a form that does the utmost justice to openness, while also looking at the protection that is needed and the learning effect that should be there for the organisation? If we continue to work on this amendment and take away the personal traceability of matters, I am very curious to see what is ultimately left of such a disaster report. I can see which way Mrs Leijten wants to go. I agree with her that we will have to be open about calamities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u38	I find it problematic to ask to what extent public access can hinder the learning effect. I think that is a completely wrong approach to this kind of thing. Everyone knows that care can go wrong. It can then be a calamity, and it can be investigated. It is only if we learn from it and if we are prepared to learn from it that a public report can be drawn up. The doctor's oath says, "I'll be open and testable." The Chamber, together with the Minister, has managed to ensure that it can be seen in the BIG register as having applied disciplinary law to a particular doctor, i.e. when it has done something that is disciplinary. This can be a clue; you can see a detachment anyway. When it comes to care institutions, that openness would stand in the way of learning ability. Could it also be that we do not know enough about what is actually happening in an institution? I would like to draw your attention to the example I gave of the Amsterdam institution. Wouldn't making it public not affect the learning ability?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u39	I think we should stick to the core. It's very much in the moment it's revealed. My position on calamities is always as follows. The inspection must stand at the maximum of the people who it is. It must then have a learning effect on the organisation. After that, it might be an idea to look at how to communicate about it. However, this has to be done in that order. I think we should look at that. That is why I am also saying that I find Mrs Leijten's amendment interesting. I'm very curious how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u40	You will continue your speech, Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u41	I mentioned a number of points which, as far as the VVD Group is concerned, should be further developed in the AMvB. The question is therefore also what period the Minister intends to send the General Measure of Management to the Chamber. The VVD Group agrees with the groups of D66 and the CDA that it would be good if both Chambers were included in a four-week front. This will be an AMvB in which we all have to look very closely at whether the effect is what we mean by each other. Supervision is also there to bring about improvements. As far as I am concerned, that should also be the main objective. A broad desire to achieve greater openness must not lead us to look back in a while and conclude that entrepreneurs are unnecessarily disadvantaged. This law covers several inspections. That's what makes it difficult. The social impact of the various studies may vary considerably. What guarantees are there, in addition to the standstill period, for entrepreneurs and institutions to weigh the seriousness of the deficiency and the extent to which it is communicated? Mrs Bergkamp mentioned the punitive nature. I think we're on the same page in that respect. I'm setting an example from life. A sparrow flies into a grocery store. The vegetable farmer wants to give the bird freedom again. That seems to me to be a laudable goal, but it should not be, because it is a protected animal. During a check, the vegetable farmer gets a reprimand. Is the report of such an incident made public? How are we going to weigh this against a large-scale study of medical misses and an anxiety culture in a particular department of an academic hospital? I would like to receive a further explanation from the Minister on this point. To what extent will the weighting as a framework be included in the General Measure of Management? Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. The balance should never turn out to be a climate of entrepreneurial bullying. Entrepreneurs and institutions should be given the opportunity to improve. In the event of a positive re-inspection, these data must therefore be published. That brings me to the importance of re-inspections. It is very important for the VVD that the General Measure of Management should contain a description of how the re-inspection takes shape by sector and category. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. This is what we do from the next thought. If you make improvements, it should also be possible to show after a re-inspection that you have things back in order. That seems to me to be the ultimate objective we want to work towards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u42	Previously, Mr De Lange used the term "businessman bullying" in an interruption. What is the VVD's priority: patient and food safety or the interests of companies and entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u43	I didn't use the word "balance" for nothing. The word "balance" means that you can make the balance in a good way. That is why I also argued that this law carries many different forms of supervision and that the social impact can be large and different in kind. It is very interesting to make that contradiction, but I do not think that we should do so. We have to stick to the core. When you communicate, it has a certain effect. Then you must be very sure what the consequences are. That is why I think it is so important that this law should regulate this. There will be more legal certainty than there is now with only the WOB as the basis. It is important that it becomes predictable so that the person concerned, an entrepreneur or an institution, can anticipate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u44	I think it's the best line to make everything public in principle. If it's a good inspection report, it becomes public. If it's a bad inspection report, it'll be public. Of course, there will be a re-inspection to see if there will be any improvements. Mr De Lange says here: yes, if it is complicated, perhaps we should not do it, but a positive re-inspection should be made public. I think that's a little weird. Either you do everything, or you say everything: well, maybe it's not necessary. The inspection is testing standards for food safety, hygiene, patient safety and medication safety on our behalf. When something is discovered or there has been a calamity that needs to be investigated, it is simply announced. If an institution has learned to do so, we will of course make it known. If a calamity has been resolved or falsely notified, this is of course also reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u45	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u46	There does not need to be a contradiction between 'wrapped; it damages the sector; we must be careful' and 'if it is positive, it must become public'. Everything's public!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u47	I am not going to fight Mrs Leijten's own opposition. I can't. She might as well do it herself. It is by no means my argument. My speech concerns the extent to which there is predictability and legal certainty. That is why I also propose that views be given an opportunity. That is why my proposal to examine the extent to which the information from a re-inspection can be linked to previous inspection information, so that it is clear and accessible to everyone that you can get things back in order. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u48	You will continue your speech. Excuse me, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u49	The work carried out by the inspections often involves examining which organisation should be revisited with the long experience of inspectors. Mr De Lange's amendment gives me the impression that he wants to lay down some sort of blueprint in advance: if you go through that column, you have to visit it and that one. Does it have to be that detailed? Or does Mr De Lange still leave policy freedom to the inspections so that they can continue to do their work on the basis of their knowledge and skills, which cannot always be recorded mathematically?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you for this question, because it gives me the opportunity to clarify my amendment. In the amendment I am looking for the legal anchoring of the role of the re-inspection. We will have to look for the right legal wording for implementation. It is, of course, essential that it should be feasible and that inspections should be carried out further. At the same time, it is important to get sharp on the basis of which you test. Which sectors can you define and which categories do you describe? That's what we're still looking for. How can you capture that in a good way? Mrs Bruins Slot is right: it must be implemented in such a way that people can improve. And that is something that needs to be communicated in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u51	Re-inspection makes sense to me as a CDA. That's what happens in health care all the time. This will check that the standard is good again. There has to be good care again. The same applies to the Food and War Authority. I am concerned that the drafting of this amendment will create a bureaucratic whole by making it all very clear. I think the amendment is quite detailed. It goes beyond just the principle of re-inspection. It also wants to specify in which cases what happens in which sectors at what point. That can also bring with it a lot of paperwork and that's not how I know the VVD again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u52	I very much agree with the latter: creating bureaucracy is not what we are generally woken up for. That is why I would like to take another look at it. I am concerned in this amendment about how we can secure it and how we can put it into practice in such a way that it is ultimately workable and practical. Let's take a look at how we can do that in the process. I would also like to hear the Minister's response. I am concerned about the principle and I am therefore pleased that the CDA also indicates that it believes that it is important that we ensure the re-inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u53	After this warm invitation, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u54	At present, the law does not include a time for the evaluation of the law. Does the Minister intend to review the law after a while? Colleagues also mentioned the planned phased implementation of the various inspections. It is, of course, important that the law is properly implemented, but we do need to make meters. As far as the VVD is concerned, the deadlines envisaged are somewhat long. Can the Minister explain why it takes three years for the IGZ and even longer for the NVWA, respectively? What steps will be taken in the intervening period? How will the Court be informed about the progress and problems that the inspections may encounter? People should be able to make a choice based on current and correct information. Greater legal certainty and predictability as a result of this legislative amendment will help entrepreneurs and institutions to know where they stand. Action must be taken against companies and institutions that do not comply with the standard. Let that be clear. Surely you do not like to eat in a restaurant where hygiene is not in order? And you don't want to be treated in a hospital where nothing is learned from medical misses, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mrs Bruins Slot has the floor. It is speaking on behalf of the 'Gristendmocratic Apple'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u56	I always like the fact that this chairman gives the names of the parties in detail. I just always say "Christian Democratic Apple," pronounced with a k. But even on this point, we may differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u57	That is what we are going to discuss again outside this sitting. But it's worth mentioning these names occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u58	That's right. It also reminds people of what the abbreviations are for. I can see the advantage of that. Mr. Chairman. The CDA also supports the objectives of this bill: promoting transparency, increasing public confidence and promoting compliance with rules. The need for disclosure of inspection data is demonstrated by the fact that the number of WOB requests, for example, increased to 537 by the Dutch Food and War Authority in 2014. Despite the fact that this bill is not expected to reduce this number in the short term, it may, in the longer term, reduce the need for the public to submit WOB requests. After all, much more information will be available; you can compare it. If public confidence is increased, this is a gain for business, for inspections and, above all, for the public interest. It is good to realise that trust is not only determined by transparency. The way the inspections themselves act is at least as decisive for the confidence of both business and citizens. The CDA continues to critically monitor the actions of, for example, the Health Inspectorate and the Dutch Food and Service Authority and the improvements that have been made there. In doing so, it is important that the disclosure is made in a correct manner. This bill merely lays down a basis for active disclosure, but the precise implementation of it is regulated by the General Measure of Management. My first question to the Minister is therefore when this General Measure of Governance will be adopted. Mrs Bergkamp already indicated that D66 and the CDA have tabled an amendment together to ensure that this General Measure of Management will be passed by the First Chamber and the Second Chamber, so that we can still look at how the legislative proposal is being implemented. What information will be made public, and how exactly is that going to happen? I share Mrs Bergkamp's view that this is still a rather empty shell. Below you can arrange anything and everything in the coming years. It is therefore important that we all look closely at whether we are on the right track, whether we are on the right track, whether we are on the right track and whether we are on the right sectors. The Minister states that the Dutch Food and War Authority will have five years to obtain the disclosure. Is this five years after the entry into force of this law or five years after the moment we stand here, or after the trial that has already been initiated? How is this part of the improvement process of the Dutch Food and War Authority, which also has many other issues to deal with? Is the initial investment of €500,000 to make this a success within this five-year period? A few years ago, a motion was tabled by my predecessor at the CDA, Mr Ormel, along with Mrs Snijder-Hazelhoff. The government was then called upon to make a clear distinction between data which is purely for information and data which led to a sanction when the NVWA's decisions were published. We have already put a written question to the Minister. In the reply, the government indicated that this distinction would be reflected in the final presentation. On 6 June the Minister sent a letter on the preparation of the presentation. I read it very carefully, but I could not find out exactly what was happening with the call from the Ormel/Snijder-Hazelhoff motion. How will the government ensure that the distinction referred to in the motion will be reflected in the presentation of NVWA reports? In the same letter, the Minister writes that she aims to ensure that there is an optimally harmonised disclosure policy. I think you should read that in such a way that all the different inspections and governments we have will eventually make matters public in one way. This makes it recognizable for everyone where certain things can be found. I understand the Minister says this isn't gonna work right away. It is also a tough job to get all these different ministries and inspections together in one loft, and then with all the noses in the same direction. They also supply different reports and products. In the note following the report, which was drawn up a while ago, we read that the interdepartmental working group would have completed the first inventory of the possibilities of achieving a uniform procedural regime for disclosure in 2015. So there is already a first product. How's that going? In what period does the Minister consider that the optimally harmonised disclosure policy has also been implemented? A bill has recently been passed in the Lower House to make public the indications of the administrative sanctions by the Dutch Healthcare Authority. To what extent is the disclosure policy of the Dutch Healthcare Authority now harmonised with the disclosure policy of the Health Care Inspectorate? I realise that the inspection is directly under the direction of the Minister and will therefore be more inclined to listen when the Minister is putting the fist on the table than an independent administrative body like the Dutch Healthcare Authority. However, both citizens and healthcare providers are better served by the fact that the information at the NZa will be as insightful as the information at the IGZ? In short, has the disclosure policy been harmonised yet? If not, does the Minister expect this to happen? At what time does she think that this is done for the VWS ministry and its ZBOs? I still have some technical questions. I would like to ask you about a number of answers from the Minister's reply. When we go public with all this information, people's personal data will also come out. In information about a lunchroom or something else may also include names of persons, of people. Often advice is requested from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In her reply, the Minister writes that this is not really necessary in this case, because it is not so bad with the amount of personal data going out. Can it explain properly again on the basis of Article 51 (2) of the Personal Data Protection Act why in this case that opinion of the Personal Data Authority is not necessary? I just had a number of questions to Mrs Bergkamp in the event of interruption. I try to mention these questions briefly once again, because I had the impression that it was going a little quickly in the interrupting period. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 14 members Bergkamp and De Lange. Does the Minister consider the word 'decision' contained in that amendment to be the decision to publish or the decision of, for example, the Health Inspectorate to impose a penalty payment? As the author of the amendment, Mrs Bergkamp says that the second is the case, and I think that is the case. I would like to know from the Minister how she feels about this. If that is the case, what about enhanced surveillance and reports on it? In my view, the enhanced supervision is not yet laid down in the law as if it were a decision under the General Administrative Law Act. Will healthcare providers be able to submit an opinion on this or not? How does that relate to what I was just talking about and I think it went a little fast there, so I'll come back to it on page 27 of the Minister's answers is under point b? In fact, it states that the legislative proposal itself does not provide for the person concerned to be able to give his or her substantive response and to make it public, but that the Minister is going to look into what she can do in the General Measure of Management. She does so not only for the Health Care Inspectorate, but also for the Youth Care Inspectorate and the NVWA. Does this amendment overlap with what it will do in the AMvB? Or does this mean that a part of it is made public with an opinion based on Mrs Bergkamp's amendment by the Health Inspectorate and that this can also be done on the basis of the AMvB that the Minister is going to submit? Are we gonna do that again? It's just questions, Mrs. Bergkamp. I think we have received your amendment this morning, so it is still quite fresh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u59	Let me just say something about the last part. The proposers, D66 and the VVD, think it's important that it gets into the law. The impact will then take place in the General Measure of Management. I hope I have clarified the last part of Mrs Bruins Slot's speech. We think it is so fundamental that it should be incorporated into the law, but the impact on how, how many words and so on we really find a subject for the General Measure of Governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u60	I'm glad Mrs. Bergkamp says that. Is that a new AMvB or the AMvB the minister announced earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u61	I found that unclear in the Minister's answer, so I think it is up to her to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u62	This will certainly be clarified in the Minister's first or second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u63	Then there's my last question. There is a difference: the Minister says that people who have given an opinion may say in certain cases that they prefer not to send them along, and Mrs Bergkamp writes in her amendment that this should actually happen in all cases. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. Let me return to the core of the law. We have a lot of inspection reports and a lot of data on the quality of lunchrooms and other things. People can really benefit from knowing that data. Then they can see whether or not the lunchroom in their neighborhood delivers clean sandwiches, so to speak. It's nice that we're taking a step towards making that information public. We will have to do this carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr. Chairman. On 29 August, the names of 172 "dirty" restaurants were made public. They did not receive the "fly" predicate because once dirty conditions were detected during one inspection visit. These are restaurants which have received three separate fines in three years' time. Today we also received the report about one in five ice cream parlors where irregularities have been detected. Consumers have a right to an honest story. Companies and organisations that do not have their business in order should be accessible here by their customers. But let us be absolutely clear that we wish public reports equally well to companies that do have their business in order. We are concerned about the consumer. They deserve to be able to make their own assessment on the basis of objective data. If the inspection has taken a look at a company's kitchen literally or figuratively, the findings should be public and accessible. This applies not only to restaurants, but to all companies under the supervision of the inspection service, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. The inspections covered by the Health Act and the Youth Services Act will now actively make their research results public after the adoption of this legislative proposal. The Labour Party is counting on this to encourage entrepreneurs to apply the prescribed rules as effectively as possible. Although pressure has been put on the various inspection services in recent years to make their inspection results public, until today, disclosure can only be made through a request under the Public Administration Act. We want the legal framework to be widened and visible communication for all consumers to be used. The disclosure of results resulting from a statutory audit is the norm. The public should be able to make a conscious choice, for example, to avoid a restaurant that does not comply with hygiene legislation, or to have a bite to eat at a restaurant where the traffic light is green. The publication of the reports will lead companies and institutions to make every effort to maintain and, where possible, improve compliance levels. Thus, the results of this legislative amendment go beyond those companies and institutions that are actually controlled. That's the profit of this law. In addition, according to the Labour Party, citizens' confidence in the inspection services will increase. After all, it is becoming clear what the various inspection services are now controlling. That, too, is a profit. A law that aims to boost transparency and legitimacy of public policy fits good, accessible information. The information disclosed will appear on the Internet. As a result, the information can be found for everyone. Accessibility via the Internet, however, is a broad concept. On some websites you no longer see the forest because of the multitude of information from the trees. How will the Minister ensure that the information is easy to interpret via accessible websites or an app? According to the Labour Party, care must be taken to ensure that only institutions and companies themselves check their place on the ranking list. Of course, it's always interesting to know how you score yourself, especially compared to your competitors. But if only that were the effect of this law, my group would regret it. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the data should be decrypted in such a way that it is easy to consult for everyone. This should not only play a role from a competitive point of view, but also from a customer perspective. Has the Minister considered how it is going to regulate this opening and what further demands are being made on it? Is there sufficient awareness of the existing means of communication? Is the Minister going to focus on a wider awareness and, if so, how? I'd like to hear a response to this. Due to the large amount of inspection results, in particular the NVWA, the Minister has chosen to make the results available on a phased basis. For example, active disclosure can be introduced by category. We realise that this is a considerable task for the various organisations. The Minister indicated that implementation would take place with the necessary speed. However, we cannot move fast enough. How will the Minister speed up this process? In order to maintain some flexibility in the documents to be made public, the Minister has decided to designate the information to be made public not at the level of the formal law but at the level of a General Measure of Governance. Will the Chamber be informed of the General Measure before entry into force and of any changes? When can we expect the AMvB? Does the Chamber have an opportunity to respond to this? Finally, it is important that the inspection findings are made public when the data can actually contribute to achieving the objectives set out in the law. What is the average time between an inspection and reporting? Does the Minister agree with me that this time should be as short as possible? Public data should be as up-to-date as possible, both for the consumer and for the company inspected. No one benefits from findings from a few months ago. This does not do justice to interventions that the inspected person may have already committed. How does the Minister ensure that this time is as short as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u65	We had an interrupting debate with the CDA on Mr De Lange's and me's amendment. Does the PvdA also think it is important to hear and hear that report? That is at the heart of our amendment. Does the PvdA also think it's important that that happens and that we include it in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u66	I find it interesting, first of all, how the Minister looks at this. However, we always value hearing and hearing again. I look forward to the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u67	I am also always interested in the reactions of the Minister, but also in what my colleague thinks. I take this as a positive reaction. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u68	The reports must be made public as soon as possible, says the Labour Party. I wholeheartedly support that. However, we know that there is a standstill in the law. That's a minimum of two weeks. It follows: however, the aim will be to ensure that any disclosure takes place as soon as possible. There is therefore no maximum time limit. Would the Labour Party feel anything for a maximum term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u69	I did not ask for nothing about the period between reporting and disclosure. I have interpreted that two-week period so clearly that it is the starting point. There are also some exceptions, which the Minister may be able to explain, legally, but I think that these two weeks really are the starting point, and I think that should be the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u70	Very good. I also have a question about the calamities report. We are health professionals and we have a lot of knowledge of this. In the healthcare sector there is regular supervision, thematic supervision, which is all made public and there is reporting after a calamity. It is now actually outside the scope of disclosure because it would be about individuals, whereas it is precisely in calamities that you can see what an institution's learning ability is. How does the Labour Party feel about making public some of that calamity report, not being personally sensitive, so that we can all know what has happened, what the inspection has established and what the institution has done to prevent the calamity from happening again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u71	It is not for nothing that I said in my speech that making it public is the norm as far as we are concerned. Patient safety is at the forefront of this. The disclosure of information should, however, clearly concern the legal person inspected by the relevant inspection. That is why I find Mrs Leijten's proposal interesting to look in particular at the conclusions and recommendations contained in those reports. I wonder what legal objections the Minister may still see. As long as it does not concern natural persons, clients and patients, but it is really about the learning capacity of the institutions concerned, I wonder if there are any other legal objections that we may overlook.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u72	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs 20 minutes to prepare her response. Then let me be very generous and suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u73	We need the first term from the government. My proposal is to do as many interruptions as possible in two, so that we can continue the debate briefly and in a pointy manner. Furthermore, you are free to determine the number of interruptions yourself. This is not an encouragement to maximize the number but you are free to do so. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Health Act and the Youth Act to the active disclosure of inspection data. This amendment is important for the active disclosure of inspection results by the NVWA (Netherlands Food and War Authority), the IGZ (Inspection for Health), the IJZ (Inspection for Youth) and the Inspection VenJ (Inspection for Security and Justice). Disclosure of inspection data is the subject of discussion in many debates. The company requires transparency and the public authorities want to offer it, but this must be accompanied by the necessary legal guarantees. What do we want to achieve with the disclosure of inspection data? These are promoting compliance and providing consumers, patients, businesses and institutions with insight into the way in which monitoring is carried out and the results of that monitoring. All this leads to better legitimacy of public action and confidence in the institutions and companies concerned. Currently, inspection results of the NVWA, the IGZ, the IJZ and the VenJ Inspection are actively made public on the basis of Article 8 of the Public Administration Act. The amendment of the Health Act creates the possibility of making data public on a large scale without compromising legal protection. What's changing? The Health Act regulates an obligation for supervisors to disclose information designated by General Measure of Governance. By no longer weighing up individual interests, it will be possible to give the public a full picture of the supervisory activities that the supervisor develops in a particular policy area. It will be made widely available. This is particularly important for the NVWA. An AMvB shall specify the routes and categories of information to be made public from a given point of time and in what manner. A category for the NVWA are, for example, hygiene inspections in the hospitality industry. For example, for the Health Inspectorate, these are all inspection reports related to the risk control in hospitals. The disclosure obligation therefore applies only to those routes and categories identified in the AMvB. In principle, the data subject shall no longer have the right to express his views prior to a decision to disclose. With the exception of special cases, a standstill period of two weeks shall apply after the decision. Where the person concerned requests an interim remedy before the court within that time limit, the disclosure shall be suspended. The audited person retains the right to appeal and object. The supervisors, in particular the NVWA and the Health Care Inspectorate, will extend active disclosure in a planned and step-by-step manner. However, these three-year deadlines for inspection and five years for the NVWA do not mean that everyone with their arms will wait until those deadlines have expired, and that they will only then begin. No, they're gonna start with the first categories right after the law's passed. After two years you're a lot further, after three years you're halfway, after four years you're 80% and after five years all sectors are public. So it's a phase-by-step. Why? Very practical, because it can't be done in one go. We do it by step, by phase. What does this mean in practice? The disclosure of inspection results should be done with care. This involves administrative and legal commitment for the supervisor. I aim to ensure that, in the long term, the disclosure of supervisory findings is broad. However, care must be taken to ensure that this is done in steps. Each inspection department maintains its own pace and working methods: five years for the NVWA, three years for the IGZ. I have assessed the experience of publishing in pilots in recent years. The use of colour codes was found to be subject to a number of explanations and not always to give an accurate picture of the actual situation at the time at a company. A colour code is assigned on the basis of a snapshot. The current situation may differ from that in both a positive and a negative sense. Green doesn't always have to be green and vice versa it can happen that the presentation of the inspection results of a company in orange or yellow is no longer current because the company now complies with all the rules. The NVWA also gives priority to the supervision of companies which do not comply adequately with the rules. Other systems that value the actual inspection results, such as the English rating system, also lead to confusion. In England, it has led to major discussions on the interpretation of the published information. Therefore, the inspection results of farm inspections will now be presented in a very factual way. It is important that you see the forest through the trees. One. Judgments and clear summaries of the inspection results, together with any sanctions decisions. In plain clear Dutch it must be said: this and this we have noticed, here and here there has been a failure and those and those sanctions have been imposed. Two. In the long term, the underlying inspection reports will also be explained. The summary contains a link on which you can click and then you can read the entire inspection report. For product studies it remains possible to apply the colour codesystematiek: red, orange, yellow and green. This concerns batches specifically examined. The judgment on the batch is good, or there's something going on with it. If there is a danger to public health, the batch is withdrawn from the market. That's where the code makes sense. If a child's seat is not good or defective, a code may be assigned to it. It'll be the same for the whole batch, now, tomorrow and in a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u75	I think Mrs Klever has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u76	The Minister rejects the color codes for companies, because they would be a snapshot. But that's a clear summary, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u77	No, not for companies. What I have just mentioned also concerns companies, namely companies that make products. For products I want to keep the color codes. You can say about a product: the situation of the product is x, because that is what we have established, for the whole range. It's different with a lunchroom. If we were to visit all lunchrooms in the Netherlands every year, we could still work with color codes. After all, code yellow follows a re-inspection within an x-term. Over the past year, 20% of catering establishments have been inspected. So 80% has not been inspected. Once every four years, not even, you get an inspection. These inspections shall be risk-driven. Perhaps all restaurants will be visited, but in general the risk cases will be looked at: where have bad experiences been gained? There will be additional inspections. As a result, such a code actually says very little. After all, a large part of the sector is white, grey, or whatever you want to call it. So that part doesn't have a sticker on the front door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u78	That's not an answer to my question. A clear summary says just as little as a color code, doesn't it? But for a consumer a color code is easier than a clear summary. A consumer can see at a glance that something has not been inspected or that something has been found to be good. In a clear summary, doesn't a consumer see that much more difficult? Moreover, it does not remove the objection I have just raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u79	No, but in a summary of possibilities for clicking you can see the results of an inspection in their balance and balance. If we hand out a green sticker, either on a website or on a door, depending on how you want it, we give the illusion that something that was inspected maybe a year or two years ago still has a green sticker. I therefore do not think that this would help to improve consumer information. I don't think that's good information for consumers. The government stamp "green" can be one and a half years old. So what does that say? That case could have been sold by now. What does that say about a case like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u80	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u81	I can't get an answer to my question. Isn't there the same problem with a clear summary that says it's good? That's a snapshot, isn't it? Surely this problem can easily be overcome by setting a date for the colour green?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u82	I don't see it that way. In a summary you can read: we visited; this is good, this is less good. That's where you see a date. But if you're going to work with color codes and with that you're going to introduce a kind of label.You're saying: this is good and this isn't good.You're going to paint an image that doesn't do justice to the situation as it can be today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mrs Klever, I suggest that you take this further in the second term. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u84	Again: that is different with a product. With a product you can say: we have given that chair an orange or yellow sticker on a certain basis. A red sticker means taking it out of the market. The NVWA gradually makes routes public. Currently, the inspection results are publicly available from part of the catering, craft, retail and residues of plant protection products on fruit and vegetables. In the past year, hygiene inspections at fish auction and some product studies have been carried out on finger colours, children's chairs, balloons. In 2016, a roll-out was foreseen for hygiene inspections at fish processing plants and abattoirs, for a wider part of the catering industry and for further product studies. This is going to be based on the WOB. That is administratively very burdensome. So we want to tackle this with this law, so that it is more predictable and less administratively burdensome on a large scale. The inspection has been publicising inspection data of a large number of sectors since 2005. In 2011, the individual health care workers' inspection reports were also added. I have also often discussed with the Chamber the disclosure policy of the inspection. With the amendment of the Health Act and the Youth Act, the line for active disclosure of information from reports by the inspection is continued and extended to "public, unless." By "unless" I mean the legal terms to be laid down, for example with regard to privacy-sensitive information from third parties. The IJZ and the IVenJ have been actively publishing information for a long time: inspection reports, descriptions, emergency reports and administrative measures. Of course, the IJZ makes this information public with due regard for privacy and professional secrecy. They will continue these activities under the regime of this bill. I believe Mrs Bergkamp asked: what is the difference? The difference is that it costs a lot of administrative burdens now because you have to do it according to the WOB, when everyone will know: everything just becomes public. It doesn't take any administrative hassle. Publicity becomes the standard instead of the exception. I'm going to answer the questions. I shall begin with Mrs Leijten's questions. Who is protected in the absence of disclosure of a death? Mrs Leijten mentioned a number of cases and said: in fact, emergency reports should also be made public. I agree with her. They're on the roll, too. The intention of the bill is to make parts of sectors public every time. So calamity reports are also on the agenda. If you want to make emergency reports public by default, they must be drawn up according to a pattern, for example in terms of privacy and comprehensibility. That's different than it is now. We really cannot do the inspection to make two versions of emergency reports: version one for the institution and the medics and version two for the public. That's what they're doing now. So we want to go to one disaster report, which is automatically made public. We are now insisting that the AMvB that is to regulate it should come into force in stages one year after the legislative proposal enters into force. Then the inspection could have completed its work, and then automatically make public all the calamities reports, obviously cleaned of data covered by medical professional secrecy and names of people. However, I agree with Mrs Leijten and others that it is very important that institutions should be able to learn from the calamities of other institutions. Institutions can then read such a calamity report and think: "Jeez, what about us? Do we also have a risk of such calamity?" Then such a report has an effect not only on the institution itself, but also on other institutions. With the bill as we have now drafted, we assume that the calamities reports, should the proposal be adopted by Parliament in spring 2017, can be made public in spring 2018. That is what the inspection is preparing for. That is a huge task and there is a lot of pressure on it, but because in this Chamber the calamities reports are considered so important, let's leave other things to be done to bring forward the calamities reports and to get them out to the public sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u85	I am pleased that the Minister shares the analysis that it is precisely from calamities that you can strengthen the learning capacity of an institution or of an entire sector and that this requires public access. I was so puzzled about this because it says in the bill: where media attention has been paid to a case, public access may not be the issue. Then I was puzzled: in what cases does that happen? That's in calamities. But that's off the record. It's gonna be public, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u86	Emergency reports become public by default. That's just in this bill. They're gonna be public by default. The point we are concerned with is that the NVWA and the IGZ are just as big a problem as the ICT systems. That is also the annoying thing about the three-year period and the five-year period. There is also the question: how do you do it now? That is really what the calamities reports are about. That needs to be completely reversed in that organization. That's why it takes time. But we are giving it priority, also in view of the debates we have had here in the Chamber. They were also always about calamities reports that had to be completely overturned in order to make them public. That is why the inspection has said to me that it will phase out the other things it intends to do so that these matters can be brought forward. The inspection shall set a reasonable time limit of one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u87	If the Minister states so clearly in the debate that this is the intention, I withdraw my amendment on that point. Mr President, I think this is my amendment to item No. 15, but I'd like to hear from your supporters if that's the case. It can also be the amendment in part No. 14 and I do not want to withdraw another amendment by mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u88	You want your amendment on item No. 15 on the disclosure of emergency reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u89	Yes. If the Minister agrees to do so, I will withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u90	The Leijten amendment (Doc. 15) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u91	However, I do have one more question. The disclosure of emergency reports is now carried out through the WOB. I asked the Secretary of State a question about the institution I spoke about earlier. As a result of 300 notifications, 60 emergency reports were prepared. If I want it to be made public, do I have to file a WOB request?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u92	We want to get rid of that whole system, because a WOB request is a huge burden on an organization. I can see that in-house with us, too. We actually want to get rid of that. When you write a report with the idea of making it public, you're off it, because then all sectors know that it's normal for something to be made public. Now, if you want something to go public, you have to file a WOB request. In practice, that's a dragon for a government organization. We really want that to be different and that is why we have submitted this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u93	It puzzles me a little bit anyway. Members of parliament can request information. I have asked the Secretary of State for his opinion, since this is a matter for his sector, whether he wishes to make the emergency reports of this institution public. The conclusion I'm drawing now is that I can't request it, because I have to submit a WOB request for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u94	Right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u95	I think so. I see my officials kissing and shaking in the back. Some people think: please do not submit 60 WOB requests! I understand that, but we've arranged for it to go through the WOB. It is not easy for the Secretary of State to say that he will send the Chamber those 60 reports, because they all need to be converted. Those reports were not written to be made public. We want another way of working, in which it is written from the beginning with the idea that it will be made public. The standard things that have to do with people's privacy will then be wiped out. Such a report will be compiled by means of a fixed format, so that the report is ready for disclosure as soon as it is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u96	I propose that this be returned to us in the second term if you wish. The Minister continues her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u97	Would that have been different in the case Mrs Leijten mentioned? Yes, because those reports would automatically have been made public. Why doesn't the IJZ and IGZ keep the same line when it comes to disclosure? That's because the IGZ currently has a lot more calamities and therefore needs a lot more time to rebuild all those reports. In addition, these reports contain much more medical data. The tour must therefore be deployed. I have already dealt with the question of whether the emergency reports will be made public. There must be a business representation of the report and it must be legally sustainable with an administrative and disciplinary judge. We are in the process of making a change at that point. The policy of state-wide harmonization has been called for. Indeed, a review of the feasibility of a single uniform disclosure regime has been launched. We have also taken into account the advice of the Council of State to preferably settle in the General Administrative Law. In particular, it looked at the possibility of a uniform procedural regime in the AWB. That exploration has not yet been completed, because it takes into account the developments surrounding the recently adopted bill of open government in the House of Representatives. This legislative proposal seems to partly regulate the same subject matter. In any event, this legislative proposal regulates disclosure according to the same rules for four supervisors. So you could say it's a big step. I'm here on the five-year term for the NVWA. These are more than 200,000 inspection findings which need to be prepared annually for publication. This can no longer be done manually and calls for as much automated process of disclosure as possible. This means designing and implementing supporting processes and systems. Only then can it be made public in a uniform and comprehensive manner. As of 2017, the NVWA will work with a new ICT system. The introduction of this takes time. Do I agree that red shouldn't exist in the hospitality industry? Red is closed, so if you have red, you have to close. I'll get to the color codes. We've been over that for a while. Mrs Klever mentioned a number of systems abroad. At the request of a number of Members of Parliament, we have studied the English rating system. We see there's a discussion about that system. We see that there is also a real discussion about the meaning and interpretation of the valuations. They do not always give an objective picture of the actual situation at a given time. A green company can be orange tomorrow. To make it as objective as possible, I think you should have a presentation based on summaries, in which everyone can read in simple language what the nuance is in the inspection findings. You can click on the internet for that. You can see at what time the test was carried out. You can therefore take the connotation of the inspector's opinion into account. If you want, you can read the entire report. I would like to return to Mrs Leijten's question. I want to inform everyone very well, otherwise I will have to write all kinds of letters again. A Member of Parliament shall be subject to Article 68 of the Constitution. The Minister must inform the Chamber accordingly. That's not like making things public. Informing can also be confidential, for example for privacy reasons or because there is a legal procedure under way. For a Member of Parliament, this is the way. Therefore, there is no need to invoke the WOB. Anyway, apparently there's been a conversation with the Secretary of State. I myself am not fully aware of the cases or cases about which this is concerned. At least this is what it's like. Then I come to a question that I asked myself, namely whether the two institutions, the IGZ and the IJZ, are ready for the merger. The question is whether it makes sense to merge at this stage. I asked that question, too. I have received back from the two inspectors-general that the merger will help to prevent duplication. You can see that these sectors are increasingly interlocking. There are more and more overlaps in the work that is being done. One wants to remove the loss of energy through all kinds of communication bumps and thresholds and thinks that it helps to merge instead of standing side by side. There is of course a huge difference in size between the IJZ and the IGZ. It is not such a big step, but they have come to me with the request to merge. I didn't ask them. They see great advantages in that. Is there much difference in disclosure between supervisors at the moment? Each supervisor shall work on disclosure in an appropriate manner. There is consultation and coordination on harmonisation, but so far the various areas are still quite different. Each body works on implementation at its own pace and in its own way. Wherever it can be done in the same way, they do it. For example, the summary of the NVWA can be compared to the IGZ formats. Then we try to align the IGZ and the NVWA. The next question is whether a sector can evade disclosure of data or not. The question is whether I agree with that. I very much agree with that, of course. A sector cannot say: we do not want that. We also hold dialogue sessions with the care field. As a matter of fact, I went to the medical specialists yesterday. The House was asked: what about transparency and disclosure? 93% of the people in the room were for disclosure. So the people working in the sector also feel more senang in the transparency you then offer. I do not, of course, agree that sectors could avoid this. Nor can this be done on the basis of this law, which applies to the whole sector. The inspection shall make the data publicly available in instalments of feasibility. Sectors cannot escape standards either. If a sector withdraws from it, if it does not want to participate because it is not in favour of it, it goes to the Quality Institute. In the case of the standards to which reference is made, this has also been done. The quality institution takes over the task, sets the standards and checks the inspection on the basis of those standards. Those controls will automatically become public with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u98	We now have to say that the nursing home sector has said through its dome that there is no longer any data on the bonding and drugging of people, because he does not agree with the way in which the blacklist has been used as a popular name. So you can't do that, does the Minister say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u99	It can't be. We have a Quality Institute that determines: you have to deliver it, you have to deliver it and you have to deliver it. Then we have an inspection that checks on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u100	The discussion is about new directives. The Health Institute is going to look into this now, but the sector has said this week: we are suspending the supply of data. I think it is very important for the Minister to say in this debate: that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u101	That's not possible. It can't be without consequences, to be precise. Mrs Bergkamp spoke about the difference between opinion and reaction. An opinion checks and gives the opportunity to be heard on the proposed decision, e.g. the decision to disclose in accordance with the Awb. The starting point of this law is not an opinion, because that is not feasible for inspections. In fact, we are going to say that everything is automatically made public. So we're not gonna ask every time if that's okay. That's what bothers us. One of the spokesmen referred to Thyrax. Yeah, that's how it is now. It's automatic. The opinion of the audited on the findings can be made public and thus known to the public. An amendment has been tabled to regulate this in the law. I will come to the amendments in a moment, but I can already say that I am fine with them. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. We had planned to arrange it in an AMvB, but it can also be in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u102	And then it's the amendment with which number?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u103	14, if I can see it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u104	The Bergkamp/De Lange amendment on the response to monitoring data. Judgment Room. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u105	An important part of this law is that the AMvB passes through the Lower House. That's right, but it's going to be a lot, or at least, that AMvB is always changing, because we're going to make it public phase by phase. In addition, you can apply different variants. This amendment proposes to do so by means of a four-week suspension procedure. If you are often going to change, as will happen in the coming period, and if every change is anticipated, this will lead to a considerable delay in the implementation of the disclosure of inspection results. It's really a question of whether you want to have that kind of backup procedure. I explained the intended roll-out of the disclosure in my letter of 6 June. Of course, I would like to inform the House of progress. I also understand that the Chamber would like to see how the AMvB is shaped. I can, of course, refer it to the Chamber, but it will lead to delays if any amendment or amendment of the AMvB has to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u106	I understand that the Minister says that there will be a lot of interim changes and that you do not want the process to be delayed every time. I'm asking the Minister to think along with Mrs Bruins Slot and me. A number of important General Management Measures are coming up. The question is whether we will then get clusters of topics. It's not about little things. First we get the first General Measure of Management and then possibly others that are also substantial. When that is and what they look like, we do not know, so it was difficult to make an amendment that meets the wishes I am now setting out. Maybe the Minister can think with us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u107	I imagine you're discussing that first AMvB. Then the room can see what it looks like. It is then changed. Then I can inform the Chamber about these changes, but every time we have a four-week front, plus possibly an AO, it's really gonna slow down. That is my response to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u108	I have listened to the Minister and I will take a look at it with the co-host, but I believe she also has an opinion of her own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u109	That's the beauty of it when you look at it together. There will be a number of clusters of major changes coordinated by different inspections. A kind of framework is also being drawn up at some point. We must not have small changes over and over again, because then it becomes a very opaque whole for the field of work and for the companies involved. I expect that, as often happens with AMvBs, we will have some substantial changes in the next five years. That seems to me to be a clear way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u110	It's about an incredibly large surveillance area. The supervision of the NVWA relates to a huge number of companies in different sectors alone. Every time you add a sector, you have to change an AMvB. You could of course say that the first AMvB we make is important. We could refer it to the Chamber. The room can see what it looks like. We can then regularly inform the Chamber of progress. We can, for example, announce in our letters that in the coming period those sectors are on the agenda and that we want to change the AMvB for that purpose. Following such a letter, the Chamber can then debate with me, ask me questions and say, for example, that certain sectors are not yet ready. We hope, of course, that changes will be made more often at the beginning, because the pace will then be good. But in this way, if the AMvB is changed a little more often, we will have to deal with the pending procedures in the Chamber every time, while the Chamber knows what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u111	The tricky thing with that presentation is that we have no formal control. In the end, it is about the House having something to decide and not about the facts. That is why we choose a legal instrument. We cannot derive any rights from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u112	It's the first one. The Chamber can then always call me in, and it can always say that it wants something not to happen or that something is being changed. I inform the Chamber that we are going to refer the AMvB to the Chamber at a certain time x. If the Chamber then examines it in a procedural meeting, then we can discuss it again a few weeks later. If the Chamber then thinks that something really needs to be changed in that AMvB, it will. However, this concerns the first AMvB. After that, it will always be changed. If, in that case, the Chamber can have a sort of bundling progress report in advance, which states what we intend to do for the next six months, it seems to me that this is simply a much more practical and workable relationship than if we have to be put forward again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u113	May I suggest you return to that in the second term? That gives you time for reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u114	I'm really worried about how you do this technically. I can well imagine that the approach proposed by the Minister, so first of all discussing the existing framework and deciding whether we agree, is practical. It therefore includes the foreseeable steps in which sectors will be added at any time. Indeed, that does not necessarily mean that this change should always be put forward. But let's say we decide on a veil for that first one. Actually, I feel really bad about that, because then we can change. After all, we cannot know about any replacements of this minister or NVWA spokesmen, who may not always be the same either. But how about technically? Can this be done technically with an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u115	You can do that once, with the first front. After that, it could be. I think we should take a look at how we formulate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u116	I think we figured it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u117	Yeah, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u118	For the sake of care, it might be good to leave this for now and to think about it first. We can then finally agree in the second term on how we're going to do it. The Minister is now continuing her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u119	How is the due diligence of disclosure secured? There is a suggestion to be heard. There is a standstill period between the decision and the actual disclosure. For a moment there was the question of how long it should take. The starting point is: basically two weeks. But what if the inspection wants to go through all the fish auctiones and take ten weeks to do that? If two weeks after the first visit were automatically made public, the second and third would know that the inspection is coming, because they can see that. So the starting point is always that it happens within two weeks, but if a number of consecutive visits are made and the strategy should not be exposed, then this is done within two weeks of the last visit. This is not a maximum time limit or a fixed time limit; it can also be shorter. If public health interests can be at stake, this can be done immediately. That's how this is done. Objections and appeals are possible. During the standstill period, an application for interim relief shall lead to a suspension of disclosure. So one has to go to court for that. Public health interests are an exception. How is it ensured that the data remains up-to-date and how long will it remain on the website? At present, the information remains on the inspection website for three years. Displaying the most up-to-date information is a technical requirement for which much attention is paid to the design of the new system. If a company is not satisfied, it will remain on it until it is in order. If the company is in order, it will be on the website for up to three years. The aim is to carry out re-inspections within three months. If there are major shortcomings, of course, this will happen sooner. That's estimated by the inspector. What is the division of tasks between ministries and supervisors? Who's driving who? The supervisory authorities are responsible for the implementation of the supervision: the "how." Departments make the "what." I have drawn up a supervisory framework for the NVWA, as I have drawn up before for the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u120	The Minister said it very quickly, but will the data remain on the inspection site for three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u121	If they're good. If they're not good, you'll get a re-inspection. You'll get a re-inspection sooner. If it's not okay, you're not gonna wait three years to visit again. You'll get to a re-inspection faster. The data will remain on it. However, we are trying to ensure that this is as topical as possible in the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u122	I'm happy with the latter. An institution shall depend on the time at which the re-inspection takes place. That also depends on the capacity. If it takes a very long time and the data remains on the site while you have already recovered the situation, I find it for three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u123	Yeah, but if you don't meet, there's a three-month deadline for the re-inspection. It could be sooner. This depends on the gravity of the shortcomings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u124	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u125	What does this law mean material for inspections? It means that they will continue with enlargement to the wider area. The IGZ already makes a lot of inspection reports and measures public. After the Health Act, that will happen even more. I'll mention the calamities reports. The presentation is adapted to one uniform way of presenting. The audience version becomes the standard. The NVWA will also apply the disclosure in the broad domain. However, it takes time because the NVWA carries out 200,000 inspections. The presentation is also updated: summaries plus sanction decisions and subsequent inspection reports. What else does it mean? It means you won't have the entire administrative burden of the WOB anymore. If it automatically becomes public by default, it saves a lot of work. The conversion takes a lot of time, but then things get better. How far are the various inspections? The IJZ already makes almost everything public. As far as the NVWA is concerned, I have just mentioned the issue of ICT and the route. I think I've already said that about the IGZ. How do I handle personal data? Personal data shall not in principle be public. Only personal data relating to the professional or business functioning of supervised persons and data which a supervised person himself has already disclosed to the public may be disclosed. In principle, everything needs to be cleaned up in medical records and things like that. There are two laws for disclosure: the WOB and the Health Act. Is that clear? The Health Act specifically regulates disclosure for VWS domains and Economic Affairs domains. The procedure will be simplified: no more views and no more individual balancing of interests. The WOB is more effective for active disclosure. Passive and on request it can still be done with the WOB. In the event of an amendment, the Health Act will apply to the WOB. A special law goes for the general law. I've already gone over the color coding. I have indicated that I believe that the judgments on a website should be as factual as possible. Then an extra appreciation of a color or a tick or an asterisk is confusing as far as I am concerned. How much money has been invested in the development of color coding? This has not been kept separately, because colour coding for a long time internally within the NVWA was the way of communication. From 2014 until now has been experimented with color coding. That was not large scale, but the experiences of this are taken into account in the future. All inspections will work according to the same pattern. Both for the NVWA, and the IGZ, and the IJZ, there will be a factual summary in normal human language. In the long term, there will be a click-through to the report on the institution or the company that has been inspected. The Thyrax report will not be made public due to objections. What does this law change? Disclosure of information under the Health Act shall be effected by means of a decision. An appeal against that decision is possible. After an objection and an appeal, an interim remedy may be provided to prevent disclosure until the objection has been decided. How well-known are the app and website for lunchrooms? The website contains a colour system. A part of the lunchrooms is white, because not visited. In this pilot it is about 30%. There is therefore no data available. At its introduction in 2014, the website had 80,000 hits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u126	I'll be back on that color coding. That hospitality card uses colors. Earlier, I asked the Minister why the colours are orange and red. With such a card or app you can see at a glance which colour has a lunchroom. If you can click on that, you could put a summary behind it. Surely that is much easier than what the Minister wants: sticking a very large piece of prose behind everything? That's not clear and not customer-friendly, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u127	I have the impression that we are now in danger of having another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u128	It's a simplification. Instead of a short summary of what you found, you give a green, yellow or orange color. Such a colour says little, because that is a snapshot for something that constantly changes into a kitchen, into a lunchroom or other restaurant. As I said in my introduction, I do not think that this is objective information for consumers. And that's exactly what it's supposed to be. We want consumers to be well informed so that they know where they are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u129	In Denmark they have experience with this system. It appears that consumer satisfaction is very high. The hygiene has also improved enormously, because companies are doing much more to achieve that colour green or that smiley smiley. Will the Minister take account of the results from Denmark in the implementation process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u130	We did a pilot of our own to see if it gave birth. Like I said, I didn't think it was optimal. At that time we also looked at the English system. There also appears to be a lot of discussion about implementation. We have said: boys, we are just going to start with a brief summary of such a report. It is clear and easy to find on the site for people who are interested in it. As a consumer, you can find it in normal human language. We are not doing that battle because we do not want to give false marks. Brands also have a false security in them. I find that green color on the left than the orange color on the left. Mr De Lange has tabled an amendment which I shall deal with in a moment. Mr De Lange asked about the relationship between openness and learning effect for staff when personal data is omitted in a calamity report. I think he didn't mean the question like that, because I assume he thinks it's logical that we should leave personal data out of those calamities reports. I think I've actually answered the question. We also think that learning capacity is important, and that is the effect with these calamities reports. You also often see that certain calamities do not occur in just one institution. There are often things that happen in other institutions that you think are happening: that is what I have actually seen there. On the basis of such a report, you could also improve things across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u131	I'd like to confirm this. It was a search for the best form for those calamities reports and for confirmation that a mode was found a year after the entry into force of the law. I think that's absolute profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u132	The communication between the supervisor and the institutions must be sound before it is made public. Mr De Lange says that because the consequences for the family are great. Of course, the production of supervisory information is subject to due diligence. The supervised person will be given the opportunity to respond to factual inaccuracies in the draft report. In addition, in an AMvB the possibility to give a response will be arranged. Moreover, Mr De Lange and Mrs Bergkamp have tabled an amendment which regulates the incorporation of this possibility into the law. So you get the opportunity to respond to the report anyway. That makes sense, because if something is not properly reflected in it, it must be possible to improve it before the report is made public. It is a question of factual inaccuracies and not of the judgement of an inspection. The AMvB regulates what information becomes public and specifies which administrative body, e.g. NVWA, IGZ or IJZ, is leading. It also regulates the method of disclosure, for example through summaries of inspection reports and sanctions decisions. Finally, the AMvB also states how long the information will be on the internet. It's going to be one AMvB. The AMvB contains general rules and an annex indicates what is being made public. The period is periodically extended. That's the AMvB I said we could possibly put it up to. On what time does the AMvB go to the Chamber? The planning is early January 2017. What guarantees are there for institutions other than the standstill period? Are reports made public in the said incident, bird in the kitchen? I've already talked about the standstill period. You can go to court for a preliminary ruling. You can appeal and appeal. The bird in the kitchen becomes as usual just public. Then it says: there was a bird in the kitchen. I don't remember exactly how it went, but it was a bird thing, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr De Lange explained the case of the protected bird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u134	It is nice to see how this bird from the vegetable farmer ended up in the kitchen. Well, of course, that could be the normal course of action, but... The case was about the vegetable farmer, but my point was the large number of different inspections and the differences in severity between cases. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that there are four inspections with a huge scope. When considering how to communicate, are the differences in scope and the impact that can have? That's why I put it one against the other. If an inspector happens to find a bird at the grocery store, there will be a reprimand and I have placed it in front of an enormous calamity in a hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u135	If it falls into such a sector, it automatically becomes public. Then it is simply described in the case that it was a bird in a vegetable shop et cetera, but it is no longer an individual decision to make something public for each part. That's what we want to get rid of. Everything comes in a fixed format. There is a description of what happened and you can also respond to it, but everything becomes automatically public. There's no more individual consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u136	Enough, Mr De Lange? The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u137	To what extent does the weighting of interests play a role in disclosure? What's more important? The starting point is that the public interest precedes the importance of the audited. This public interest is, for example, protection of public health or protection of the child. However, there is always a standstill period and you can apply for a provisional provision. What does the design of the re-inspection look like? The re-inspection shall be carried out in accordance with the intervention policy applied by the supervisor. Each supervisor applies its terms and time limits, depending on the nature and gravity of the infringement and the assessment of the risk. In the event of serious shortcomings, the deadline for the lifting of an infringement is, of course, as short as possible. Then supervision is much more intensive. As soon as the supervisor finds that the deficiencies have been resolved, this will be published. In the case of minor minor deficiencies, the response varies from one supervisor to another. It may be done with a written re-inspection or that this will be reviewed on a subsequent regular visit. Do I intend to evaluate the law? We must first have gone through the whole process and implemented the entire disclosure policy. In a number of years we will see whether this legal provision works well for disclosure. That would be about five years from now. Then you could look back on everything we've done in those five years. I can therefore imagine that we will do so in about five years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u138	Perhaps it would be useful for the convenience of getting clarity on this for the second term. The minister says she can imagine it. Does she think it's a good idea? Is she planning on doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u139	In fact, we regularly evaluate all policies by default. It depends on how long it looks like you're good to evaluate. It seems to me that a period of five years is a good time. If you evaluate too quickly, you're only talking about a few sectors, like right now. But in five years, you won't be able to see the whole field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u140	I can make this leap of thought very well, especially given the time-limit within which it has yet to be worked out. It is important, therefore, to evaluate when all the information is available, if a sensible evaluation can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u141	I agree with Mr De Lange. This is important enough to evaluate properly. What intermediate steps are there? I just talked about that. I think it would be a good idea for me to submit a periodic proposal to the Chamber on the sectors with which we wish to expand this time. When will the AMvB be established? That is what I said: if we put the AMvB in front of us now, first at the Dutch Parliament in January 2017, it can then enter into force. The Annex shall be updated periodically as soon as new categories are required to be made public. Is the five years of the NVWA five years after the entry into force of the law, or five years after today? It is five years after the entry into force of the amendment of the Health Act. The sooner we have a change, the sooner that wide can be applied. How does this law and the deadline relate to the improvement process at NVWA? One of the programmes within that improvement plan is to maintain more uniform and rigorous in order to improve compliance. One of the aims of disclosure is to improve compliance. In doing so, disclosure contributes to compliance and thus to the objectives of the improvement plan. I have said before that the whole ICT leg is crucial in this. There's quite a difference between doing something manually or doing something automatically in your ICT. What happened to the Ormel motion on the separation of sanctions and other decisions? That is a commitment made a few years ago. In the further ICT implementation, a new system will be introduced next year, which will distinguish between sanctions and inspection data. At the level of the individual company you can see this distinction and you have an insight into the performance of the company. There are four compliance categories, namely Meets, Improvement Points, Enhanced Monitoring and Silenced. Each individual category can be searched at an aggregated level. To what extent has the NZa's disclosure policy been harmonised with that of the inspection? The NZa was not brought under the bill because it is not part of the Ministry, but is an independent administrative body. The NZa already has a power under the Health Organisation Act to actively disclose certain supervisory information, so it can do so. An explanation has been asked for why, on the basis of Article 51 (2), it is not necessary to submit it to the Personal Data Authority, at the time the Personal Data Protection Board (CBP). This is the case because for the most part disclosure is not natural persons, but legal persons, i.e. companies and institutions. That does not alter the fact that disclosure may concern individuals. The draft law has been designed to minimise the breach of privacy. The bill complies with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act, such as target bindings and basis for processing. The question of where the term 'decision' in the amendment to item No. 14 to apply, I have already answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u142	You left the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u143	This was about the question of what the term "decision" refers to. It has been asked whether I am going to ensure that the information on the Internet is not only accessible to businesses, but also to consumers and whether I am going to ensure wider awareness. I have already said that the NZa is through summaries, the sanctions decisions and the company's views. You can do that via a click system. These matters are in fact understandable to the consumer. I say to Mrs Vermue that we will be on top of that. This has got to be something you can do with. If we make it too complicated, it's gonna blow over his target. Can I speed up the trajectory? That's not gonna work. I talked to the NVWA. Because of the ICT system, I dare not make a commitment about it. How do I ensure that the information disclosed is up-to-date? That is a task for the inspection services. The NVWA aims to carry out a re-inspection within three months if a company had deficiencies in the inspection. The results will then be posted on the website as soon as possible. IGZ and IJZ shall make public all inspections, including re-inspections. So there is always a current picture. I've been asked if I'd like to be heard and heard again. The response of the data subject to the information disclosed shall also be made public. I think that's how I talked about everything. Is it true that I still have one more amendment to discuss, the amendment to item No. 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u144	No. The amendment in part No. 16 has lapsed and has replaced the amendment to item No. 17, that's about the possibility of re-inspection. The amendment in part No. 12 will come back in the second term. There are therefore four amendments before us, namely those on Nos. 12, 14, 15 and 17. In this connection, we note that the amendment to item No. 15 has been revoked. The amendments to documents Nos. That leaves 12, 14 and 17. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 14 left the Minister to the Chamber. There is still some uncertainty about the amendments to the Nos. 12 and 17. We could take that with us in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u145	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I can't see what's changed now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u146	No, so let us agree that in its second term the Minister appreciates the amendments to the documents. 12 and 17 gives. Agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u148	In that case, the applicants may also, if they so wish, discuss this in their time limit. Fine. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for her reflections. We shall proceed to the second term of office. The first speaker is Mrs Leijten. She has about six minutes available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u149	I don't think I really need that time, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It is not common, but this time I am very satisfied with a commitment from the Minister. She has promised that the calamities report will be made public. What exactly happened to a calamity? What were the causes? It is precisely in a calamity that I think you can see what is going on with the learning ability of an institution. I believe that disclosure of a calamity report can also remove a lot of frustration from people who have experienced something or who have experienced something with the family. There might be some things they're worried about. In my first term, I referred to an institution in Amsterdam and a report on it. It literally states that the educational capacity of the institution in this area is not so great. The parents are really awake from that. The worst thing that can happen to you is that your child dies while it's under the supervision of someone else. Those parents have to deal with that, but they are also really awake to the question of what happens to the residents with whom their daughter lived in that institution. Are those residents safe? I think it's really important that you get that open. An institution can really only learn from this and take advantage of it. So I think it is very good that that happens. I also welcome the fact that the Minister will indicate how she works in the Roadmap. Which sectors will come when? We will receive that in early 2017. I look forward to it. We are slightly critical of the IGZ and the IJZ. I trust the Minister will prepare that well and come up with a bill. I'm assuming we'll handle that right here. I shall therefore not table any further motion on this matter or anything like that. In the stand still, the goal is two weeks. I think that's very good. I assume that if it is necessary to do it longer, we will be able to see it later and with retroactive effect. It must then be clear that there has been a longer period of inspection and why it was necessary not to make that public by definition. I know that institutions often have a deadline of three months to respond when it comes to emergency surveillance and IGZ, for example. So that's gonna expire? So, I ask the Minister, will that change? The Minister says that she does not want to make a commitment on the acceleration of the five-year period for full disclosure to the Dutch Food and War Authority. I think it's wise not to say anything you can't do, either. Nevertheless, I would like to encourage the Minister, and with that also the Dutch Food and War Authority, to do it faster where it can be done faster. Because the need for this information is great. The same applies, in my view, to the removal of pressure on all kinds of legal departments because of the Public Administration Act. I have one more question, about baby Jelmer. Those parents still have to sue the institution where the operation didn't go well. How does the Minister feel about that? Can it use its power, its charm, its influence to ensure that it can finally be put to an end? After many excuses and many reports, parents still have to sue at their own expense in order to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her response. It's normal for something to go public, the Minister said. That is the purpose of her law, and we support it. As far as D66 is concerned, this should also apply to other ministries. The Minister also said something about the interdepartmental working group in progress. I ask the Minister to use the ambition she has shown today in relation to the cabinet and other departments. I think it's okay if it's normal for something to go public. Sometimes we have to get used to that, but this is an important ambition. We have tabled two amendments. Together with Mrs Bruins Slot I have in part No. 12 tabled an amendment on the general management measure with a back-up. The authors are considering whether this amendment should be amended. We're gonna need a little more time to do that, so we'll come back to that. We expect the Minister to come up with a response if this amendment is indeed amended. We welcome the promise that the Minister will at least inform the Chamber in advance of changes; preferably clustered, because otherwise we will get bogged down in a lot of letters. For a moment, I lost sight of whether the Minister is also sending the planning, the strategy, to the Chamber, so: when is something going to happen; the big steps. The General Measure of Management provides some information, of course, but it is also nice to look a little further. I have also tabled an amendment with Mr De Lange of the VVD, which has received the appreciation of the Court of Justice. That's about hearing and hearing back on the inspection report. In other words, the person concerned may express his reaction to the decision. We think transparency is important, but care is also important. That is why we have tabled this amendment. I am pleased that the Minister has expressed his views on the action of the sector. Then I'm talking about ActiZ. Mrs Leijten made a very clear point about this. A sector must not be excluded from supervision. I'd really think it'd be a wrong signal if it did. We will have another debate on this next week, but I think it is important that the Minister has already expressed his views on this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u151	Mr. Chairman. As I indicated in my first term, the publication of inspection reports can count on the support of the PVV Group. We welcome the Minister's commitment that the emergency reports will be made public. However, the Minister's arguments for rejecting the colour coding are incomprehensible to us. Last year, the coding was extended in order to be more nuanced. Millions of dollars have been invested in this, but the Minister suddenly doesn't like it anymore. The Consumers' Association speaks of a successful disclosure in other countries through colour or other coding and is also a strong supporter of this system. But the minister doesn't want to get into it and chooses summary. The PVV fraction is not against summaries, but you can also add them by means of a link on which you can click behind the color encoding. My group therefore wants to maintain the colour coding and even extend it to the other inspections. I shall table the following two motions for resolutions on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas foreign experience shows that disclosure of the results of inspection reports through colour coding contributes to compliance with the Directives;]] [[Considers that disclosure of the results of inspection reports through colour coding gives consumers a clear picture of the research results at a glance;]] [[noting that the NVWA has worked for years on a system of colour coding for catering companies;]] [[calls on the Government not to abolish the colour coding for the publication of inspection reports but to use it widely,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34111-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u152	I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that disclosure of the results of health inspection reports through colour coding can give patients a clear picture of the research results at a glance;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the IGZ, IJZ and the VenJ Inspection can use colour coding when publishing the results of the inspection reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34111-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the support for the answers. I believe that this debate has brought the necessary benefits, with it being quite clear that the aim of this law is to create greater legal certainty and predictability and that inspection data should also reflect a high degree of topicality. That is possible if you come up with a clear summary on the internet, in which you actually show in clear Dutch what the situation is, what the judgment is and what sanctions were present. This is a wonderful step to create that clarity. The Court has explicitly called for attention to be paid to the speed with which that process is going. I understand this is a big operation and there's a lot of automation involved. I think it is a good starting point that what is already possible is always being done. That step-by-step approach appeals to me. The signal that we want to keep pace has been well received. If we introduce this phase-by-stage, the desired image will come closer faster. The result of this debate is that there has been more clarity about the calamities reports and that we are going to get a better picture of them in a year's time. There are two things left. First of all, the amendment that I tabled together with my colleague Mr Bergkamp in the first term on the extent to which there is the possibility of the information obtained being guaranteed by law when re-inspection is carried out. We have amended this amendment and I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on it. I have taken into account the wish, which also exists in the Chamber, to give room for implementation practice. By now also referring in the AMvB to the policy rule, I do justice to that. Finally, there is the amendment to item No. 12 the question of the veil, the Chamber and how we are going to do it now. I think it is very important that the first time the Chamber is involved widely in the establishment of the AMvB. Let us be honest, it is very important to see whether the intentions as expressed today have actually been translated. Is there any way in between? After all, at a later stage, there may be a need to see if these intentions are still in it. It's a question to the Minister. Couldn't that be arranged at the time? We should be looking for an intermediate form, because it is only done at the first time and not after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. It is good to see that there is a law here that will give people more clarity about, for example, the sanctions imposed on health care institutions or the state of play in lunchrooms. This can also increase confidence in the work carried out by the inspections. You can then see how they are really working to improve the quality of care, together with the people in care, but also the quality of restaurants, for example. You can see who is doing well; it is also very important to have more insight into it. There's only one question left. It's about the amendment. The President said very enthusiastically: in the second term, we can do that completely. But, yes, often you still have to discuss the different ins and outs. I have the same question as Mr De Lange. We in the Chamber would very much like to remain involved in the question of what this disclosure will look like. That is a huge operation, as the Minister himself points out. It will be about 200,000 decisions, for example from the Dutch Food and Waring Authority. The first General Measure of Management then contains the structure. So we need to see it, but we also want to have a moment afterwards where we can influence the way in which the Minister regulates it further. I therefore agree with Mr De Lange's question as to whether there is still a possibility of a certain intermediate route. I'm curious to hear the answer. I thank the Minister for the rest of her answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is satisfied that the inspection results of the inspection services are being actively made public on a larger scale. I want to be able to rely on quality in a restaurant, in a youth care organisation or in a health care institution. This should be accompanied by public access to the results of the inspection. Patients, clients and consumers are entitled to this. The Minister has indicated that he should focus on good, accessible information. The conclusions of the reports are summarised in clear language. I welcome these commitments from the Minister. I understand that she cannot promise that the phase-by-stage introduction will be accelerated, but I agree with Mrs Leijten's encouragement to speed up where possible. Following on from the questions put by Mr De Lange and Mrs Bruins Slot, I will come to the AMvB. I also think it would be good to look at the question together at the end of the journey: do we have everything we wanted in the picture? Not only during the process, but also during the completion of implementation, we need to check whether all the categories that we wanted to see are included in the disclosure. Finally, I have a question. On the basis of the bill, it was chosen to focus on active disclosure of findings through inspections under the responsibility of the VWS Ministry. A law with which you want to give an impetus to transparency and the legitimacy of government policy fits a broader ambition of the cabinet. Is the Minister prepared to raise this issue within the Cabinet for the other inspection services?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u156	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that she can start her second term immediately. I'd be happy to give her the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr. Chairman. I just have one small question that I need to figure out. Can you give me one more minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u158	I think it would be a good idea to suspend the meeting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u159	The Minister is fully prepared to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u160	Mr. Chairman. I started to doubt for a moment when I read the notes on Mrs Leijten's question whether the three-month response period is going to change. I was wondering if that's the response period, because I didn't recognize that three-month period. It is not now the case that institutions have three months to check for factual inaccuracies. That's up to the inspection itself, but it's really much shorter. We've already talked about the stand still. That's two weeks, unless it's an exceptional case. Institutions or companies may indicate factual inaccuracies, but it is intended to be within a compact time frame. That's different. That is the answer to the first question. If we can do it faster, we have to do it faster, and I totally agree. This applies both to the NVWA and to the IGZ. We are also dependent on automation systems. I'll always be a little more careful. We're gonna see how that goes, but if it goes smoothly, it might be a year shorter. We'll do anything faster, faster. Mrs Leijten asked about the case of baby Jelmer and all the fuss surrounding it. I always find it very sad when it comes to people, because these are very sad events. I can't imagine there's anything sadder than losing a child, especially if things have gone wrong. Of course, these parents are always confronted with this. The case seems to be stuck in the legal procedure between the hospital and the parents. As politicians, we say the case is under trial. I will ask the inspection to encourage, wherever possible, that this very complex legal battle comes to an end. That court procedure is very difficult for me to assess. The inspection made an apology and paid €30,000 to the parents. This isn't about the inspection, but this is between the hospital and the parents. The IGZ will encourage, where possible, that this will be put to an end. I am waiting for the amendment to item No. 12 down. I imagine you're doing a front for the first AMvB, which is very important and which has a lot in it, also a window box. By means of a progress report, the Chamber can be informed in advance of any intended changes to that AMvB. The Chamber can then read along and call the Minister to the Chamber, for example if she sees three sectors in the schedule and has the question of why one does and the other does not. Then you have a moment when the Chamber will be actively informed and, if necessary, can ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u161	Again, we are going to take a good look at the amendment. I have one more question about that report. Is the Chamber informed in advance so that it does not get read only when irreversible steps have been taken in a manner of speaking? Can we actually exert influence, for example to add a sector? Does the Chamber have the opportunity to respond to that? It is important for the proposers to know if we have the space to adjust that process if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u162	I imagine that in such a report you will tell us what has happened in the past period, how that has happened and what intentions you have for the coming period. Then there may be a debate in the Chamber. I can also imagine that you will report annually on the sectors on the list and that the Chamber will hold an annual debate and keep its finger on the pulse. There's been a report, but it's also possible that in the meantime things are going a little more complicated. Then the Chamber can ask if it can do it again in that year. You then keep your finger on the wrist at this trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u163	Plenty, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u164	Two motions have been tabled by Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u165	Can I ask you a question? As regards Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments to the motion for a resolution. There will therefore be a modified wording. The Minister undertakes to add the appreciation in writing in the direction of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u166	That depends on the adjustment. If the adjustment is as we discussed here, you don't have to. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. If there's any other stuff coming in, I really need to take a look at it. If we have a veil once and the Chamber is further informed in advance with reports, I don't need...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u167	Conclusion: in principle Court judgment, unless there are major adjustments. That's clear. Is the amendment to item No. 17 is sufficiently clear what the appreciation is? I'll ask before you move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u168	Yeah, I got those in here somewhere. In addition, it is up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u169	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u170	It's about re-inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u171	Yes. That concludes the amendments. It seems obvious to me, then, to deal with the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u172	Mrs Klever has tabled two motions. In the first motion, she refers to foreign experiences. It states that this contributes to compliance with the directives. Our experience isn't like that. Some countries inspect differently. If you visit all the institutions every year, it is different than if you go to 20% of the institutions every year. It will be of very little use to the consumer. It sees in 80% the colour grey or that it is older than a year. I really don't think that's accurate and that people really can't choose better. I find it confusing and I think it gives us false safety. I would like a clear summary of the sanction decision, later an addition of a link to the inspection report and publication of the view. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u173	Motion in part No. 18 is not recommended. And the motion in part No. 19?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u174	I'd like to dissuade them, too. This is, of course, in line with the motion in part No. 18. What if you put a hospital under surveillance because it's not going well in cardiology? If I have to go to the kno-doctor, or to a completely different doctor, what good is it if a hospital like that suddenly gets a sticker? That does not seem to me to add anything to the choice. Well, it seems to me that you should be able to look it up and find it on the Internet, but this really seems too simple to me. So I would also advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u175	Motion in part No. 19 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u176	It has been asked whether I would like to appeal to other inspection services to follow this path. There's an inspection meeting where all these inspections meet. It seems very good to me to be actively involved in this discussion that we are doing it this way. I would really like to ask all three of our Inspector-Generals, because there are still three of them who want to actively introduce this and share it with the inspections, so that they may be inspired by this way of working. I hope so, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u177	That concludes the second term of office of the government and brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. The votes on the motions, amendments and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday. I shall suspend this sitting until 6.30 p.m. and wish you a tasty meal and a joyful evening.
