ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u1	I welcome all Members, in particular the members of the Temporary Committee on Wide Prosperity and the staff who have assisted her. The first term of office took place on 22 June. Today we are ready for the answer in the first term and we keep the second term. I call the chairman of the committee, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am not the initiator, because the initiative was originally taken by members Van Ojik and Pechtold. That would also be my first words: we have done our research in that context. First of all, I would like to explain the structure of my response. After a very brief introduction, I split up the answer into a number of themes. I first deal with the strengths and weaknesses of gross domestic product (GDP). I will make it very clear when I have completed this topic and move on to another one. Then I will look at the shape of the monitor as we propose, with aspects such as the dashboard approach, the indicators and the reasons for these indicators and their characteristics. Then I go into the theme of "evaluation versus calculation," to sum it up in this way. I would also like to comment on the subject when we discuss that monitor. Of course, the discussion will also be discussed as to whether this discussion will take place in the debate on responsibility or at any other time. Finally, I would like to answer separately the remaining questions of the spokesmen who I have not been able to fit directly into these issues. The establishment of our committee took place on 6 October 2015. In April 2016, she presented the report. The members of our committee, Mark Harbers, Henk Nijboer, Arnold Merkies, Pieter Heerma, Wouter Koolmees and myself, supported by our unimaginable official staff, have tried to do this work in a short period of six months and then to include it in a handy report. We have conducted research into what GDP measures and does not measure and the potential added value of it to develop indicators alongside GDP to make broad prosperity understandable. It is a brief study, which has been done in a relatively short time. That also has its limitations. Here and there in the answer I will encounter those limits of what was and was no longer part of our field of education, excuse me, our field of research. You heard the education spokesperson here, who I normally am. I would like to thank the spokesmen for their constructive first-term contribution. I have noticed that almost all the groups have chosen to respond to our work in a positive tone. Of course, we are very happy about that. I will begin with the theme of the strengths and weaknesses of GDP. In terms of prosperity, we distinguish between, to say it popularly, the economic side, namely everything that involves payment, the size of the economy, which is GDP, and all the other aspects that are important when we talk about prosperity in the broad sense and all of which are not in GDP. GDP is not an indicator of broad prosperity. It was never meant to be. We have also described strengths and weaknesses in GDP in our report. In itself, the goal for which GDP has been developed, we still think GDP is a strong instrument. In order to better understand and understand its limitations, it is important to mention one thing about how GDP is achieved. You can calculate it in three ways. You can add up all the production in the economy, you can add up all the consumption or you can add up all the income. Theoretically, these three roads lead to the same number. In the economic sense, it is a method of calculation which can be calculated in different ways. GDP is therefore part of the whole system of national accounts. This systematic side plays a significant role in complex discussions on what can and should not be taken into account in GDP. Those discussions are conducted firmly, including by the international bodies that draw up the GDP manuals, statistical experts from statistical offices and international organisations. GDP is being updated once every few years. I have been told that the handbook covers about 800 pages. As a committee, we have not read all 800 pages. We believe it is important to leave the discussions on tightening up and changing GDP where they belong, that is to say, with those authorities. Nor does it make much sense to want to change many things from our point of view as a committee, because GDP stands or falls in any case with the international acceptance of this method of calculation. As a parliamentary committee, we are not close to the fire, but we recognise and recognise the limitations of GDP. Mr Bruins mentioned a number of them, but we also addressed them in the report, for example the impact of ICT. Mr Verhoeven made comments on this. These issues are also recognised by the international organisations mentioned above. On the basis of these elements of the studies, GDP is sometimes also updated and sometimes the method of calculation is adjusted. As a committee, we do point out the importance of continuing these discussions, because when the economy changes, you will sometimes have to change things in the measurement of that economy. Despite these limitations, as a committee, we believe GDP is indeed a robust indicator of the size of our economy. That's what it's meant for. It is important that GDP has an internationally harmonised method of calculation. It's calculated in the same way everywhere. That, of course, makes it fun to make comparisons with it. It has a years track record, so timelines are also easy to sketch. In daily practice, GDP also has a strong relationship with direct economic impacts and also with public finances. There is even a very strong relationship between GDP and tax revenues. GDP measures money flows that go around the economy and on the basis of which we collect taxes. This means that the Finance Minister in particular will always be looking at GDP with great interest, because growing GDP means that we have a different discussion on the rich budget than on a shrinking GDP. This was also originally one of the driving forces in the development of GDP. The forerunners of GDP, far back in history, are even ideally designed to measure and try to predict to what extent a government could levy taxes. For the cynics among us: they were not often used to calculate how to finance a war. I now move on to the next block, the design proposed by us as committee of the Monitor Brede Prosperity. It is important that we opt for a dashboard approach. That means you're not trying to put things together in one number. The best part is still the argument put forward by the Stiglitz Committee: if you want to show in one meter both the speed with which you drive your car and how much petrol is left in your tank, you don't measure anything anymore. The risk might be that as the tank is army, you're gonna drive faster. Maybe that's not gonna end well. The committee wants the annual Monitor Brede Prosperity with all kinds of indicators side by side. It is an evaluative instrument. It gives a picture of the state of play. It reflects objectively measured facts about these different aspects. The weighting and interpretation of these facts is different and will always differ. Mr Van Veen has pointed this out and we agree with him. That is the essence of the political debate. We are not going to solve the essence of the political debate with the instrument of the Broad Prosperity Monitor. We do not want to do that either. Which indicators should you have? We have discovered that there has been a lively debate on this issue in many places and in many countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u3	Maybe I'm a little early, but I'm asking my question anyway, because we've arrived at this block. Interpretation is very important. The more independent the information provided, the better the debate can be conducted. I ask the chairman of the committee: how are we going to ensure this international comparison at such a monitor, given that the Netherlands cannot impose anything on the rest of the world alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u4	I would like to mention this in my speech, but I would like to make an advance on this: we also think it is very important for international harmonisation to take place, both in terms of the choice of indicators and in terms of the method of measurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u5	My question is that we cannot impose it on other countries. In the first period, we have found that each country considers things important at its own stage. For example, the further you are in your prosperity, the more you have to worry about certain things. I said then in the debate: if there is no water, we want to ensure that there is water first. How are we going to ensure that this international comparison is made and that it can also be interpreted for us if that level of prosperity has not yet been achieved in other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u6	However, there has been a great deal of development in this area. That is precisely one of the points that the committee has been able to make. There has been a great deal of work on international harmonisation. The CES recommendations are the most important of these. These give a set of about 60 indicators in 20 areas. We have found that it is quite covery and useful and that there is already quite a degree of agreement on how to measure it. Fortunately, there is a great deal of agreement. Perhaps it would be nice to make the comparison with GDP on this point. It has also taken several, even many decades for GDP to achieve a high degree of international harmonisation in a growth process, which cannot be enforced. So it's possible. We expect that this can also be done with the broad prosperity indicator set. However, Mr Van Veen is right to make a point. What are the indicators? There is indeed a risk. From the Dutch situation, you can list a set of indicators that are the nicest, the nicest or the most relevant for us, apart from the fact that we are getting out of it ourselves and whether we will not end up in a lengthy discussion about the instrument instead of using that instrument. We have discovered that this has happened in many countries. In Germany and France, where we have been, there have been many years of trajectories. These have led to their own sets of indicators, which differ from existing sets of indicators, such as those of the OECD, or which differ from the recommendations, such as those of the Stiglitz report, which are themselves different from the CES recommendations. Those sets are going to lead a kind of own life and are also immediately questioned. The committee didn't want to fall into that trap. That is why we have made a rational choice for one set of indicators that already exists, which is already endorsed by statisticians from 60 countries and by a number of international organisations, and which you could call "the most promising set." This most promising set is therefore endorsed by about 60 countries and is already being implemented in, among others, the current Sustainable Netherlands Monitor, as it is now called. That is what we want to continue to use. We also want to get to those CES recommendations more precisely. Do we have to wait? In any case, Mr Bruins has expressed concerns about this. No. That process is far enough away to work with it now. However, the international process has not yet come to an end. In a way, it will always remain in discussion. See also the discussions on the method of calculating GDP. It is sufficiently accepted to be able to work with it and to achieve international comparability, to be able to compare between a large number of countries. The CES recommendations thus describe how broad prosperity can be measured, with those 20 themes and 60 mostly objective indicators. I will come back to that later. This set seems to us to be most appropriate for the Dutch situation as well for the political debate and the most covering in relation to all aspects that have so far passed, including in our committee. There are also other sets that play an important role, such as the UN's World Goals, the Sustainable Development Goals. This set is much bigger and consists of over 180 indicators. There are also a large number of indicators which we believe may be less relevant to the Dutch situation, but that does not alter the fact that they, of course, retain their own value and play a role in the discussions with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. However, it is not the most suitable set of instruments for the Dutch Monitor Brede Welvaart, which is aligned as much as possible in international context. In the international context, however, the tension between the Sustainable Development Goals and the CES recommendations is also seen. An international working group is currently working on how these two could be connected. Our own CBS is the leader of that working group. We'll just have to wait and see what the experts show up there. This could lead to a step forward in international harmonisation and alignment, including with the Sustainable Development Goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u7	Thank you, at least, for that answer. Last week I had a debate with Minister Ploumen, also on the Sustainable Development Goals. It wants to incorporate them into the budgets as much as possible. From some of the indicators proposed is now being considered whether they can continue to grow from the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor to the Broad Prosperity Monitor we are about to receive. Should these indicators be included in the budgets? Is that what the committee recommends?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u8	We did not make that recommendation. That is because our main recommendation is to create a monitor, a measuring instrument. This is not one-on-one linked to objectives, but it measures the actual position on those 60 indicators of broad prosperity. The monitor is also not made by the government, but by an independent institution. We believe that the CBS is the most appropriate institution for this purpose. There's a difference. You can't say one-on-one: we take that into account in the budgets. We do, of course, have a discussion about how the cabinet can respond to both the Broad Prosperity Monitor and the Sustainable Developments Goals, but I must say that this falls outside the scope of our committee's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u9	Thanks for the answer. I can imagine anything. At the same time, I was also talking to Mrs Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, about avoiding a great deal of extra red tape. How does the committee intend to prevent that? On the one hand, you may be able to take a lot of things with you in the budget cycle and on the other hand, there will be a separate monitor. How am I supposed to see these two things relative to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u10	The question is whether they serve exactly the same purpose. It may also vary from group to group in how one wishes to relate to this, but we as a committee say: make a complete overview once a year of the total of broad prosperity, do so long-term, do so with international comparability, let it come from an independent institution and then ask the cabinet to write a response to it. Without me now being able to say that this is the ultimate solution, you could, so to speak, discuss with the cabinet the question of whether, if it responds, there is overlap with the Sustainable Development Goals. For example, I think that this question could well be addressed in the forthcoming debate with the cabinet. So an important incentive from our committee was not to choose the indicators. The choice we have made is one that you can also imagine that you would make other choices, but we say, with the strength of arguments, that at the moment, given the process of international harmonisation, it is the best set that you can choose. If you're going to deviate from that and invent the wheel yourself, it won't get any better. For example, Mr Bruins referred to gross national happiness in Bhutan. As a committee, we have not done an in-depth study of the way in which they work in Bhutan, but almost at a glance we can see that the working method in Bhutan is also one of a dashboard. This approach is also based on 33 indicators, with a very large overlap with the indicators we advise in the context of the CES recommendations. There are differences here and there, but they're small. One striking difference is perhaps that in Bhutan one of the 33 indicators is "spirituality." As a committee, we are wondering whether you can measure that objectively. That one annual publication with that overview we would like to see developed into that standard work, until that moment and that document that everyone knows and that you take with it. This does not affect all kinds of other reports that exist and that know their own specific accents, which have their own value and which are published under the responsibility of a range of organizations at their chosen times. At least the committee doesn't want to touch that. We believe that all these reports have their own value and that everyone is free to do whatever they want with them at any time. However, we believe that one moment on the basis of that monitor can bring a great deal of focus in the debate on the state of broad prosperity. In that we also set the bar high, because we want there to be a clear visual presentation. We're gonna need up-to-date data. We want not only averages but also information about inequality or, if you like, distribution. We want a comparison with other countries and about time, and we also want that monitor to talk about the here and now and about the elsewhere and later. For the visual presentation of data, we found inspiration from the OECD Better Life Index. We're excited about that. It's a kind of rose that's so clever that you almost see at a glance what it's about and what that monitor actually wants to tell you. In terms of presentation it is beautiful, and we might be able to take it over as well. This does not mean that the Better Life Index currently covers the entire field in terms of content. Although the OECD has also endorsed the six recommendations, they have not yet been incorporated into the OECD's current Better Life Index. The OECD's Better Life Index is to a large extent limited to the domain of the here and now and actually does not say or hardly say anything about the elsewhere and later. So it is a subset of what we would like. That is why we would like to take the Better Life Index as an inspiration for the presentation. In addition, we want to take the CES recommendations as a starting point for the set of indicators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u11	I would like to return to the aspect of spirituality in Bhutan. I am not in favour of including this in the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor, at least not directly. I would like to point out that this type of indicator in Bhutan is based on surveys, on questions asked to people. People are asked how their spiritual well-being is. People can give a figure to that. Does the Committee see a future for such indicators? Of course, they are in addition to indicators of a more statistical nature, such as those monitored and passed on by the CBS. Could the type of indicators on the general well-being of people on the basis of surveys also be taken into account in the wider well-being and well-being of the committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u12	To some extent, we are proposing this. In the CES recommendations, indicators measured to a large extent through statistical information collection are included. There are indeed relevant indicators that you can only find out if you ask people. One example is life satisfaction: life satisfaction. You can't measure it in any other way than by systematically asking people the same way over and over again. It's been under investigation for years. We know it's possible. Statisticians indicate that these figures are relevant and have a significant degree of objectivity. The questions are always asked to people in the same way. It has been examined whether cultural differences and such aspects play a major role. However, the answer from the bank is that it can be done. The committee says that you have to build a monitor to a large extent on objective statistical data and that you only have to supplement it if you cannot reasonably use statistical data. The example I mentioned is an exemplary example, I think. Furthermore, we find it very important in the characteristics of our monitor that there are current data. We have to note that far from all the data are really up-to-date. A good example is the measurement of leisure time and leisure activities. This takes place only once every few years, including in the Netherlands. You may wonder whether this kind of data still has value for a current political debate. After all, you want to look at the developments every year. The committee sees two avenues in this respect. First of all, you can measure more often. That will be necessary to some extent. Secondly, you can make use of the possibilities for nowcasting. That's wisely extrapolating data to the present. That's something other than extrapolating to the future, and so something other than windows. The experts at the CBS let us know that for a lot of data, for which there are not too old measurement data, you can come to an end with a good technique of nowcasting if you want to translate that data into the present. It is outside our committee's expertise to judge precisely by indicator whether that is possible or not. That is really a matter for us to leave with statisticians and experts. It is up to them to determine which data you can get with nowcasting and to what extent you have to say that you need to be measured more often. Politically, we think this is essential. We cannot imagine that a political debate in the Chamber is well underway on the basis of a set of indicators, a significant part of which is a number of years old. We don't think that's gonna fly. Having said all this, I would like to add a few words to Mrs Klever's comment. I don't think she's here. She said: the committee proposes replacing objective GDP with subjective concepts. In my description of what we are proposing, I have just made it clear that we are dealing with objective indicators, measurements and facts that we can present. The interpretation of facts may be different, but they are facts. This also means that aspects such as unemployment, safety, public health up to and including what someone leaves in the wallet at the end of the month are of course of interest to the ordinary Dutchman. You can find that in the Monitor Brede Welvaart, because it is about household income. You do not find that in GDP, because there is an indirect relationship there. The direct description is therefore another aspect. I am convinced that the PVV will also look at this monitor with great interest once it is there. I come to the block about the evaluation versus the desire to pass on the policy. I have already said that the monitor we are proposing is, by its nature, an evaluation tool. It is intended to form the basis for a structural annual debate on the state of broad prosperity and not on predictions of broad prosperity. The Monitor Brede Prosperity that we propose, therefore, does not include a calculation model. No estimates can be made. In discussions we have had with many scientists, we have asked questions about this. In any case, there is one thing that emerges: an integral calculation model on the full breadth of broad prosperity that would allow you to estimate policy effects on all these aspects by means of estimates is solid future music. It will take many years of intensive research to take steps in this area. On the basis of the discussions, in the opinion of our committee, the comprehensive calculation of broad prosperity is not feasible at the moment. The committee has not studied the whole discussion on aspects of credit transfers and to what extent they are desirable, feasible or reliable. This is clearly outside the scope of what we have investigated. We might have been able to investigate that, but we did not choose to do so. We have chosen to come to this product in a short time. If you would like to get into the extremely complex discussion about the calculation, you should have much more time and the corresponding budget. That just wasn't our choice. So I can't go into that. I think we should have that discussion. The debate on the discount rate which Mr Groot encouraged is, of course, very much linked to that. What Mr Groot says is absolutely right. At the moment you'd like to start windows, the discount rate is a hugely important factor, so let's just say it popularly, it can count on one way or the other. This is clearly outside the scope of the committee's work. It is very relevant, but that discussion will still have to be held here and elsewhere. It is true that the capital approach plays an important role in thinking about the understanding of broad prosperity. That is also true in the international scientific debate. According to the capital approach, you not only have to measure flows, but also what you do with a number of capitals or stocks. You have economic capital, but also human, ecological and social capital. These four forms of capital have been appointed by the Stiglitz Committee and are generally accepted as the four forms of capital you should think of. You can imagine that such an approach could still play a role in the future, both in further refining the good measurement methods for broad prosperity and also in the discussions on accounting. But again, that is no longer the subject of our committee. This is how I got to the end of this block. The next block is about the matter of the moment. When are we going to talk about it, in the Accountability debate, in the debate on the Millions Note or at any other time? First of all, the Committee would like to stress that it is important to choose a fixed moment and make an agreement with ourselves in the routine of the year that we will discuss it in full once. If you do that, there will be a number of aspects. Firstly, the type of instrument we are proposing. I just explained it to you, too. It is, by its nature, an evaluative instrument. It says something about the position and the realization at that time. Looking at the nature of the Accountability debate, we think it would be more appropriate to do so. Does that mean, by the way, that you are only having a debate about the state of affairs and would not have any relationship with the future? We can't imagine that in this Chamber. I think that politicians will always have a debate in view of what they think is desirable in the direction of the future, and that is something you can think very differently about. It is not for nothing that we ask for a cabinet response when we present that monitor. The way in which the debate then unfolds with the cabinet about not only the monitor but also the cabinet response, and the extent to which you would like to draw conclusions, is to a large extent up to the political groups, to the Chamber itself. We always draw conclusions in the sense of obtaining commitments or submitting and accepting motions. This can have its effect and may also have its effect for the future. In our view, this debate on responsibility is not an unfortunate moment either. We'll still be here before the summer. If you learned lessons from that Accountability debate, you could conclude that as a Chamber and then you could instruct the Cabinet to do something with it in the run-up to the next Millions note. Whether that happens or whether political majorities arise is all up to the Chamber, but it can and it is a logical and timely moment. In our view, that is more the case than if it were to be done with the Millions Note itself, in which of course that monitor could also be involved; it is not a nonsense idea to do so than with the Millions Note, but we do think that then the timeliness is less, so that the Chamber's margin of manoeuvre to do something with it is rather smaller than greater. The risk of undersnowing exists. Nor can we guarantee that this risk will never occur. However, we consider that this risk is greater when dealing with the budget or the Millions Note than in the Accountability debate. As we are already doing, we are holding discussions with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance during the debate on accountability. In doing so, it is logical that the Minister of Finance should focus to a great extent on the aspects of the Accountability debate, which is already under way, and that the Prime Minister should focus to a great extent on the main lines of policy and the consequences for broad prosperity. We do not therefore need to designate another coordinating minister for this, I would also say in the direction of Mrs Mulder who asked for it. Whatever you'd like to do, there's going to be a crazy figure. Where it can cover all aspects of policy and often also the coherence between it, one could say that it is an excellent cabinet-wide story. In this sense, it makes sense to have the debate on this with the Prime Minister. So, when you actively designate other rulers as the coordinating minister, a bias towards the debate could, as it were, arise. We believe that this has no added value and that it is therefore best to have this debate with the Prime Minister. In view of the debate on responsibility, the Minister for Finance is of course present. But again, that is in line with the logic it already has. Then there is the suggestion that you could do it in a very separate debate on broad prosperity. By combining it in the Accountability debate, you also give it weight. There is also a certain risk of undersnowing, but you also give it weight. It's the logical moment. In the end, that is what our committee prefers. A separate debate has its drawbacks again, because it could contribute to a loss of interest in what you would like to discuss with each other. This brings me to the end of this section, Mr President. I go on to the remaining questions, the questions I have not been able to fit into the themes. I am going to deal with these questions individually, starting with Mrs Gesthuizen's questions. She asked if you should stop looking at income instead of production. Yes, we agree with her. This is also one of Stiglitz' recommendations: not only looking at the production of the whole economy but also at household incomes and consumption. Stiglitz has again had a lot of influence on the design of the six recommendations. We see that in that too. In this sense, we do not think it would be wise to adjust GDP so much, as you would then put a figure in GDP again. It is much better to understand separately how the situation surrounding income development actually goes and to have a clear understanding of it, rather than being hidden in any way in a GDP or adjusted GDP. This also applies to many other aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u13	I wasn't suggesting that at all. That wouldn't be necessary at all. Gross national income already exists, just as gross domestic product already exists. The question is whether we, as politicians, would not be wise enough to do so, and I would like to hear it from the committee to assume a little more of that. Of course, the CBS is already doing that. I read in the committee's report that there is already a publication on 2012-2014. Is it not much wiser to shift attention here, in this Chamber, to the gross national income rather than to the somewhat, in my view, somewhat polluted gross domestic product?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u14	We are doing the same, because in the set of indicators we are proposing, the six recommendations are also the income of households, as well as a measure of the distribution of household income. Along that path this insight arises and it has a good and balanced place in the monitor. It is also up to the Chamber itself and to political groups in the Chamber to consider aspects of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u15	I am so committed to discussing this because I also hear the committee say that there is not so much wrong with gross domestic product as an international measure, because everyone uses it. I think you can say the same about the other indicator, the gross national income. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it. I think that is just as much part of an internationally used set. That is certainly the case on the international websites that I have been able to consult. The committee clearly says that it does not want to write off the gross national product. I'm fine with that, too. That is of course very interesting from an international point of view. You can compare yourself with other countries in other areas. So I understand very well that you don't write that off. However, I could have imagined that the committee would have preferred, when it comes to the prosperity of the Dutch people, to look more closely at gross national income in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u16	I feel like Mrs. Gesthuizen and I mean the same thing in the end. You want insight into the development of the income of Dutch people, i.e. households. In the second period, I can, if necessary, briefly comment on the extent to which GNI is related to household income. There's a relationship between them, but I don't know if it's one-on-one. I should look into that, so I will come back to that in the second term. However, we want the same thing: understanding the income situation of households, not only in the average but also in the distribution. That's in our recommendations. Mr Verhoeven stressed the importance of technology and innovation for the development of prosperity. That is a very correct point, and the committee has also pointed it out. Technological development presents the necessary challenge for the measurement of GDP, because it is necessary to price intangible production in any way. The discussion on this issue is intense. I have here a very nice booklet by Mrs Diane Coyle: GDP: A Brief but Affectionate History. This booklet outlines not only the history of GDP, but also the whole way in which that GDP is calculated. That booklet elaborates on this point, and it shows that it is quite a search. Part of this search has already taken place and has already been incorporated into the latest standards of GDP. This search has undoubtedly not yet been completed, because of the enormous development of technology and ICT. However, it is true that the question of how to determine the value of ICT and innovation production belongs in a real hardcore GDP measurement debate. We can only say that we consider it important, and we have done so. However, as a committee, we do not consider ourselves able to invent the Columbus egg on this issue. In the field of innovation and ICT, there are also aspects that are not part of the actual calculation of GDP, but which are relevant, such as the knowledge capital stock. You will not be able to see it in GDP, but it is relevant. The expenditure on Research and Development is reflected in GDP, but we would also like it to be seen separately. However, these expenditures are included in the six recommendations and are also made clear in the system that we propose. Mr Van Veen once again pointed out that there are all kinds of lists and measuring instruments to compare the Netherlands with other countries. The committee agrees with him. There are even a lot of lists and many different initiatives. This information is often used in the Chamber at various times and in various ways. However, we must note that this information often comes to us in a fragmented way and has relatively little impact on the political debate. That is one of the main reasons why we have said: let us at least adopt one set of indicators and use them as standard work and as a cover picture, as I said earlier in my speech. But that does not alter the fact that all the other lists and figures simply retain their value and can also be published if the institutions that deal with it consider that important. This is certainly not always about annual publications or publications that appear at the same time each year, but they often deal only with certain aspects, whereas we prefer to look at the whole. Mr Van Veen also asked how the committee appreciates that the Netherlands is at the forefront in terms of data availability. We appreciate that very much. If one country is able to publish a Monitor Brede Welvaart in a good and responsible way, it is the Netherlands, through all of us CBS. That gives us good hope, and that also means that we are able to take on an international leading role in order to move the process of harmonisation forward. You can see that happening, because the CBS has a solid role to play in that regard. The CBS is also, together with our unique planning agencies, an important factor in contributing to this in an international context. We have stature at that point. The committee appreciates this, but at the same time points out that this must remain so and that this leading role must continue to be taken. We consider this to be so important that we want to make that recommendation. A number of questions have been asked about inequality and distribution. I have just said a few things about this. When building dashboards, engaging inequality and division is a widely accepted insight. Averages do not tell us everything about living conditions and all kinds of other aspects. However, the distribution of population is an important factor. In doing so, we base ourselves to a large extent on the recommendations of the Stiglitz Committee, which emphasizes: not only measure averages, but try to provide insight into the distribution on relevant aspects. That is why we also propose this in the elaboration of our Monitor Brede Prosperity. I feel like I'm missing a page. For mysterious reasons, a little bit was missing, but it's all right now. Mr Bruins asked for a response to the motion for a resolution which was adopted by Mr Dik Faber/Van Tongeren (33043, No. 17), in which the Government is invited to make proposals for a different design of the Macro Economic Recognition of the CPB. This concerns precisely the discussion on how to pass on and on which aspects you can and do not want to do so. As a committee, we have to note that this really falls outside the scope of our investigation. It is a relevant discussion, but unfortunately the ultimate answer to that question cannot be given from our role as a parliamentary committee. Finally, I am no longer sure who is responsible for whether the CBS is able to develop a Monitor Brede Prosperity and what it costs. The CBS is technically capable of doing so. That's what they reported to us in the conversations we had with them. The Committee cannot assess whether the budget of the CBS is adequate. We deliberately didn't look into that. We believe that this aspect can be addressed in the debate with the cabinet on this issue. We would also find it logical if it were to be discussed there. I think that Members of Parliament will undoubtedly raise this aspect if they consider it desirable. With this, as far as I can see, I am at the end of my first-term response. I hope I have not missed anything and no one, but if that is the case, I will no doubt find out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u17	Thank you for your reply, Mr Grashoff. I don't see anyone standing up for an interruption. Then it's time for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u18	Mr. Chairman. Once again, thank you very much to the temporary committee. Our questions have been answered in a good way. I believe that we will certainly continue to debate this in the future. Mr Van Veen will be tabling a motion on our behalf shortly. I would like to thank the committee and the support once again for the good work they have done and for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my thanks from GroenLinks for answering the questions put by the Chamber. It is good to see that a committee consisting of the financially handsome heads of this Chamber has put here a fine piece of work on how we can look beyond the figures at prosperity in the broad sense. We have therefore also co-signed Mr Van Veen's motion. We welcome the work of the committee and the recommendations and conclusions contained in its report. We assume that the cabinet will come up with a response indicating how these recommendations will be formulated by the cabinet. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Commission on Wide Prosperity has investigated a broader understanding of prosperity and how it could be used in policy development;]] [[Whereas the Committee recommends that, prior to the annual accounting debate, the Cabinet should ask for a substantive response to the state of wide prosperity in the Netherlands;]] [[expresses the wish to ask the Cabinet to include in this response how the conclusions of the Broad Prosperity Monitor are involved in future policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Commission on Wide Prosperity has investigated a broader understanding of prosperity and how it could be used in policy development;]] [[whereas the Committee advises the Cabinet to have a Broad Prosperity Monitor published and to give explicit consideration to this at a fixed time in the parliamentary year;]] [[whereas the Broad Prosperity Monitor can not only be used to understand the state of broad prosperity, but can also be used to guide future policies;]] [[expresses an invitation to the Cabinet to enter into the Millions Note on the results of the Accountability debate on the Monitor Brede Welvaart and how they have been placed in the next year's budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Bruins, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Thieme, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-5]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u20	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the committee very much for its excellent work and for the excellent, clear response. One set of 60 indicators has been presented with which we can work now. That is language that I particularly like. On the reaction to the motion-Dik-Faber/Van Tongeren I still have to chew. It is good to see that so many years ago there was a motion about it. Somehow, I'd like to do justice to that. The form in which I want to do that, I'm going to think a little bit more about it. The Committee discussed the impact of ICT in detail. In the second term, can a few words be said about the banking sector, financial services? In 1993, the UN defined financial mediation as a productive activity. This was taken over in the Netherlands in 2004. The biggest income of a bank is actually in interest differences between the front door and the back door. That is always a transfer of income and not production. The Christian Union could therefore live with it if we took the banks out of GDP. Given international agreements, this will not happen very quickly, even if we call it. I have said it here and I am counting on a response from the committee. I shall confine myself to two motions, in which I shall allow the Chamber to make a statement and not a request to the cabinet. After all, the cabinet is not in the house. The first motion deals with publication moments of reports. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Commission advises Breed concept of prosperity to measure prosperity in a broad sense;]] [[Whereas important reports cannot always be used directly at important decision-making moments, for example because "The Social State of the Netherlands" of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau will be published in December;]] [[points out that, in consultation with planning agencies such as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Environment Planning Office, it is desirable to harmonise more the publication moments of important policy impact transfers and to strive for publication around Prinsjesdag, so that the measurement of broad prosperity can be used in the definition of future policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u21	My second motion concerns regional differences. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the state of "wide prosperity" may vary between provinces and regions, for example in the areas of health, well-being, education, the economy, the environment and safety;]] [[points out that it is desirable to map broad prosperity in the Broad Prosperity Monitor also by region or by province,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u22	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of D66 I would also like to thank the committee, in particular Mr Grashoff, who took responsibility for the reply and for supporting the many work and the clear recommendations. My group has signed three motions for resolutions. Two of them have already been tabled by Mrs Voortman. I believe that Mr Van Veen will also table a motion on behalf of all the parties present. So it was also signed by D66. As far as I'm concerned, this is kind of a stopover right now. This report and its discussion are not an end point, but rather a start. The essence of it is that you can make a Monitor Brede Prosperity and discuss it in the Chamber. But in the end, the politicians are the next move. They have to weigh the different things. I very much agreed with Mr Grashoff when he said that you should not create one super indicator, because then it would appear that there is always one optimum. There is no such thing, because it is a question of making roads and choices. I think we've all been chosen to do that here. That monitor gives us an opportunity to show everything in those choices. Allow me to make a small quibble, Mr. Chairman. In this light, it is, of course, only a gain that today a committee containing five members of the Finance Committee has more often used words like'sustainability', 'innovation' and 'work' than they do in their daily work. It must have been the influence of colleague Heerma. I thank my colleagues once again and look forward to the answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u23	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg. Let's see how many times he uses these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Temporary Committee for their reply and reporting. My colleague Thieme began her first term by outlining the disadvantages of using gross domestic product as a means of comparison. Gross domestic product is nothing but a sum of all our economic activities, regardless of whether they are good or bad. I will not repeat her words, of course. But I would like to give you an example. In Limburg an extreme amount of water has fallen in the last week. In a few weeks, up to 20 cm of rain fell. That's four times as much as usual. I live in South Limburg myself. I too have been with buckets and mops in the weather to make my flooded basement anhydrous again. Fire and emergency services had to pull out dozens of times every day to help people. Traffic had to be rerouted because of flooded streets. There have been hailstones the size of a tennis ball. The damage to houses, cars, roofs, solar panels, roads, greenhouses and agricultural land is more than 100 million euros. Secretary of State Van Dam will go to the Limburg farmers tomorrow to see how the cabinet can help with the damage. As cynical as it may sound, all the nuisance contributes to GDP, because this nuisance causes economic activity. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this is a perfect illustration of why GDP is not a good measure to measure prosperity and well-being. That's why I have the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the gross domestic product is too limited a basis to measure the level of prosperity and well-being;]] [[Whereas expressing our concerns, desires and developments in purely monetary terms would be too one-sided an economic perspective in which criteria such as happiness, sustainability, viability and sustainability are not or are not sufficiently reflected;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to draw up a set of indicators reflecting the development of prosperity and well-being in a broad sense, including its sustainability for future generations;]] [[also expresses an invitation to the Cabinet to reflect in the Millions' Note and in the budgets the expected impact of the policies to be implemented on these welfare indicators and to reflect on them in the annual reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Thieme, Mr Voortman and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u25	My second motion is shorter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses its wish to ask the Cabinet to pay structural attention to (the impact of the policy on) the intangible components of prosperity and well-being in a broad sense and to report annually on them in an annex to the Millions Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Thieme, Mr Voortman, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u26	I now hear a number of motions calling on the cabinet to do something about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u27	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u28	Didn't I listen? Then I withdraw my question. But I think I heard clearly that the cabinet was called to do things and that is not here. I believe that the strength of what is happening here is that we should then ask the cabinet for a response to the report that the committee has produced. Following a possible reaction from the cabinet, a debate may then be requested in which such motions may be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u29	No, the cabinet isn't addressed directly. It is requested to address the cabinet, but the cabinet is not directly addressed. Yeah, I've been thinking about that. It is a valid point, but that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u30	I see on the clock that time quickly ticks away; 2.5 minutes. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the committee and to Mr Grashoff for his answers and for addressing my point on GNI and GDP. In order to build a kind of backup for the second term, the question may still be paraphrasing: how exactly do letterbox companies contribute to something like the broad prosperity of our own population? There will be no motions from my side, but one more comment. I would also like to address this to Mr Bruins, but I see that he has already left the room and perhaps the building. Oh, no, it's right here. Mr Bruins, especially for you: no matter how much I sympathize with trying to find indicators which also look at how other countries measure their happiness and well-being, I would like to say here in the House of Representatives that Bhutan can count on one of the few countries where one in six people is a refugee and is abroad, because there are very few opportunities to express it in his own country if one has a different opinion and feels that one is not very happy in one's own country at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u31	I see an interruption by Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u32	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I was so personally addressed by Mrs. Gesthuizen. We all understand that Bhutan is not a rich country. There's a lot of shit going on in there. It is one of the few countries where people do not want democracy because they are so happy with their king, but that aside. But I only wanted to show that intangible well-being and mental well-being are objectively measurable by using surveys. In the meantime, this has been adequately answered by the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u33	I very much agree, of course, that it is important to survey and ask what people think about it. Only, I doubt that Bhutan is the country to which we should take an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u34	Mr. Chairman. There are so many beautiful countries you can imagine that you would like to be there: Bhutan, Cuba et cetera. I too would like to thank the committee for its work. She has devoted much of her valuable time in the Chamber to this beautiful, well-readable report. Let me briefly comment on the level of abstraction with which we are going to reach the people at home. I do not think we have entirely succeeded in this with the reply from the chairman of the committee. I have indicated that Dutch people love lists and that they also like to compare them. We Dutch also want to know why we are better than others and do not want to believe that others are better than us. We will have to think very carefully about this as soon as we start talking about the concept of prosperity, because for each person prosperity will be something else. Then there is the Central Bureau of Statistics, which will eventually have to be able to deliver. It must be able to maintain its independence, even if we in the Chamber are asking for certain analyses. What I love about the CBS is that it offers those analyses to us and unsolicited. I have already said the last time which will be presented in the coming period. I think it is very important that this independence is guaranteed. I will conclude with one motion, which had already been announced a little bit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the mandate of the Chamber to the Temporary Committee on Wide Prosperity;]] [[Considers that the Committee has carried out a thorough investigation and has presented the findings in a clear report;]] [[calls on the Commission to end its work with thanks and appreciation for its reports and recommendations;]] [[calls on the cabinet to respond to this report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Veen, Mr Groot, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Voortman and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u35	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the committee for its clear answer. This shows that the committee has gained a great deal of power over this difficult issue in a short time. I do keep feeling that there might have been more in it, given the financial expertise and expertise in the welfare economy that has been combined in this committee. I am referring here to the discussion on discount rates, which the Central Planning Bureau uses in the case of social cost-benefit analyses. That internal interest rate is in fact the price at which you weigh prosperity now and prosperity later. I understand that it was not the committee's ambition to investigate this, but the result is that we are leaving it entirely to the wisdom of the CPB. Politics is about broader considerations than the CPB makes. For example, you could include the energy transition, the low interest rate at the moment, the arguments from employers' organisations for a Netherlands Next Level or, for example, the national savings surplus and the question of what to do with it. Having said all that, there remains an excellent and clear written report. We have got a clear picture of which indicators are useful and which are not. Concrete recommendations have been made that will be anchored in a new Monitor Brede Prosperity of the CBS. It will also be anchored in an annual debate on accountability. Without reinventing the wheel, the committee has helped advance the discussion. I congratulate her on that. I also look forward to the cabinet response, which will undoubtedly lead to further debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u36	That brings us to the end of this term on the part of the Chamber. We're suspending for ten minutes so the committee has time to review the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u37	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address Mrs Gesthuizen's remaining first-term point on GNI. Then I would like to make a few very brief comments on a few points and questions. I shall then briefly comment on the motions. Gross national income is a figure that ultimately is not what it seems to be saying. It is the sum of GDP plus the balance of income going abroad. That is the definition of GNI. So it's a little bit wider than GDP. In GNI, no distinction is made between income falling down on households and income falling down in the form of corporate profits. There's no distinction. This means that GNI as such is not a good measure, precisely for household income and income development. That is also why Stiglitz advised, among others, to look directly at household income and household consumption. This has been translated into the CES recommendations. I hope I have answered Mrs Gesthuizen's question as precisely as possible. Mr Bruins asked whether the banking sector belonged to it. There is a discussion on how the financial sector is being taken into account in GDP. This is sometimes a heated debate, which takes place in the appropriate forum. Our committee continues to take the view that this debate should be held there. There's one thing you can say about it. You can discuss a great deal about how this sector is included in GDP, but you also have to note that income is generated in this sector in any case. Given the explanation at the beginning of my speech that you calculate GDP on three sides, you have to realize that if you remove this sector, you will encounter a gap in GDP somewhere. So that seems to be a less logical solution. But there is quite a spicy discussion about the method of calculating the financial sector, the banking sector. Mrs Gesthuizen asked whether letterbox companies contribute to GDP. It could be just like that. How much hasn't been said; you have to measure that. In addition, the question may be asked.I will end up knowingly with a question "or letterbox companies" contributing to our broad prosperity. So that's something completely different. Mr Van Veen says we love lists. I think that we are calling on him in this respect, because the fact that we demand the monitor to be internationally comparable means that those lists are there and that it is precisely part of the monitor to be comparable with other countries. Mr Van Veen sketched it a bit like a hobby of a lot of Dutch people to see if you're the best or not. If you want to use it that way, you can. Mr Van Veen once again stressed the independence of the CBS. We wholeheartedly agree with him on this. It is important to stress that. The last thing the committee wants is an instrument that becomes part of a debate on the instrument. The instrument must be outside the discussion. The discussion should be about the content of the instrument, about what it says. It can be done by strict independence from those who provide it. Mr Groot said that perhaps there would have been more to it if we had had had a big discussion about the calculation and windows towards the future. I regret that we have not been able to meet that expectation, but this is the product that it says. Sometimes a little within the limited time and resources you have that you better do one thing right than two things half. I'm here to talk about the motions. In general, I would like to say that it is good practice for parliamentary committees of inquiry not to express an appreciation of motions referring to actions which should be carried out by the cabinet. That does not mean that we do not agree or agree with the motions. In other words, we say that these motions should logically be dealt with in the forthcoming debate with the cabinet. What the Chamber does with this is to the Chamber, but we as a committee make a cautious suggestion that they should be retained and put to the vote after the debate with the Cabinet, but that choice is obviously entirely up to the Chamber. This applies to the motion in part No. 5 by Mrs Voortman c.s. It clearly asks the cabinet to do something. That question will eventually have to be answered by the cabinet. It is up to the Chamber to discuss this with the Cabinet. The same applies to the motion in part No. 6 by Mrs Voortman. In a slightly different sense, this also applies to the motion in part No. 7. It states that "it is desirable, in consultation with planning agencies, to harmonise further the publication times of major policy impact transfers." As a committee, we are not the ones who make statements about planning agencies and what they publish at what point. That discussion can be held with the cabinet. If that happens, the Chamber will have to do so with the cabinet, because there may be a responsibility to do something about it. In the operative part of the motion in part No. According to Mr Bruins, "it is desirable to map broad prosperity in the Broad Prosperity Monitor also by region or province." That's complicated. This is already the case for a number of indicators; they are already published by region and can continue to be published in this way. For other indicators this may not be useful and for some indicators it may not be possible or not yet possible. We cannot at the moment make a final decision on this from our responsibility as a committee. We believe that this really is a question of further developing the extent to which this is feasible and can be done in a sensible way in the discussion with the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u38	I think it would be useful for the ease of this debate and for the committee if I brought the operative part into line with the dictata of the other motions. I will make that change before we decide how to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u39	Thank you very much. Would you also like to indicate if you have the motion in part no. 7 wishes to hold?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u40	I shall begin with the text of the motion for a resolution on item No. 7 and of the motion in part No. 8 change and then I will see what I will do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u42	Also in the motion in part No. 9 is clearly a request to the cabinet. The same applies to this: as far as we are concerned, this is a discussion with the cabinet. The same applies to the motion in part No. 10 by Mr Wassenberg: this is also a request to the cabinet. Once again, this does not mean that these motions could not be meaningful, but by the nature of a committee, including ours, we cannot express an appreciation of this within our responsibility. We will also have a debate with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u43	In fact, we're being asked to hold all motions. I am therefore curious to see what the proposers will do with that. So I would like to receive a response from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u44	That's a challenge. Mr Wassenberg, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u45	I am discussing this in my group. I'm doing the second term now. Mrs Thieme has done the first term. So I guess it's just decent for me to talk to her about this, too. So I'll come back to this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u46	On the motion in part No. I do want to come back to 6, but with the motion on part No. 5 is precisely requested to address a number of points in the response. It is a little strange if I were to hold that motion now and then not to be in the cabinet response that I asked for in the motion. For the motion in part No. Therefore, I do not think holding on is logical, but for the motion in part No. 6 I'll discuss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u47	I conclude that no motions are being held for the time being. We're at the motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u48	As a committee, we can express our thanks for the motion on item No. 11. We like to take her as a support for our work and for the further process. Thank you very much. Finally, I would like to mention explicitly the names of our imperfect staff, who has worked very hard on this: Marloes Haveman, Michiel Becker, Martijn van Haeften, Rutger Hoekstra, Miguel Israel and Wilma van Zeijts. They're behind this. They have done a very substantial part of the work under the responsibility of the committee. I would also like to thank them very much in this place. I'd like to close with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-36.u49	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the other committee members, Mr Nijboer, Mr Harbers, Mr Heerma, Mr Koolmees and Mr Merkies. Thanks to the support, too. Tuesday a.s. we will vote on the motions that have not yet been held.
