ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u1	Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. We have agreed that we will debate in this debate, but that we will keep the interruptions short and lively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. We will try to concentrate on the legislation before us during this debate. However, there is also, of course, something in the current situation that we cannot completely ignore. I will try to deal with that briefly. We also have a general discussion. We can go into this in greater detail here. Nuclear safety, however, has been a concern for us all lately, as this terror is getting so close. American experts have recommended the Netherlands to make Borssele and Petten more secure. Of course, we should not be naive when we get these signals. In my view, it is also important that we not only look at nuclear power stations, but also at other institutions and companies that somehow work with radioactive material. You should never talk to each other about the security measures that are being taken; that's always a little tricky. However, I would ask the Minister, before the general discussion we are going to have on this, to look at how we can see whether all this is well arranged. Of course, we do not want the Netherlands to be the weak link in the European level playing field in terms of security measures. We're trying to prevent a waterbed effect. Perhaps before the AA, or by that time, the Minister could go into that a little more detail. Cooperation and mutual trust between services are essential in the face of terrorist threats. This also applies to accidents involving nuclear power plants. Now we are getting closer to the heart of this debate. I would like to mention, for example, the closure of installations when cracks have been detected. Such incidents in Belgium have caused a lot of unrest in the Dutch border provinces in the south, i.e. in Brabant and Limburg, but also in Zeeland. Such situations therefore involve mutual trust. You actually want to make sure that the plant that's with your neighbors is okay before it gets started again. With this bill, we're going to strengthen an inspection. I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to enter into a declaration of intent or some kind of memorandum or understanding with our neighbouring countries in which we state that, after every major incident, the relevant services of the surrounding countries will be involved in the decision-making on the re-launch of a nuclear power plant or on the re-launch of another nuclear plant. In such a situation, it should be possible, for example, to carry out joint inspections quickly. This builds confidence and also receives a second opinion free of charge from a friendly neighbour. I think we all benefit from that. I would like to leave the details of such a memorandum of understanding to the experts. In any case, we show to all the people in the surrounding municipalities who are concerned about their security that we take this issue very seriously and that we make clear agreements. These agreements also survive political changes in one country or another, because there is a structure for cooperation between inspections. D66 is pleased that the Cabinet has decided to split the safety aspects of nuclear activities and to place the Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. In this way we avoid influencing the energy interests on the one hand and the security interests on the other. The creation of the ANVS took a while. As early as 2012, it was found that the organisational structure at the time was not sufficiently adapted to the new developments in the sector. There was a fragmentation of tasks and powers. Can the Minister explain exactly where the risk was? The cabinet decided in 2014 to change the organisational structure, after the Chamber had asked for it by way of a motion. That motion on an independent authority was tabled in 2013 by members Jan Vos and Void in 2013. In my group, however, the question arises as to why it took so long before the amendment had actually been worked out. The IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency, already had objections to the way in which this was regulated in the Netherlands. It's been a long time, hasn't it? Then why did it take so long? I would also like to draw attention to three issues which have not yet been covered by the law. They may not need to be regulated by the law either, but they are important for the formation of judgement. What haven't we got? We have no analysis of structural tasks and costs. The cabinet says that it is only this year that it will follow up the IAEA recommendation on getting a sharp picture of structural tasks and costs. When can the Chamber expect that? Is it not risky to base the estimation of required FTEs, 120 FTEs and 27 million budget only on the past and not on the future? Without this analysis, it is difficult to assess where the pressure is high, whether there are sufficient resources and whether mistakes are being made. We can't have that. In a later debate, for example, we will talk about wrongly issued permits for the transport of uranium to Russia. We are not going to discuss this now, but we do want to make sure that resources and tasks are consistent. It is therefore important to have the analysis of structural tasks and costs. Equally important is the fact that the implementation of the supervision of the ANVS will be developed in a supervisory vision. For D66, the way in which supervision is regulated is very important for the assessment of this legislative amendment. We all know how important supervision is. How can it be that the Minister can already indicate that there will be no additional supervisory body? There is much to D66 that the ANVS receives all the information it needs to carry out its task. That too is reflected in the supervisory vision. Can the Minister say anything more about this? We do not yet have new working arrangements with other services. Of this, too, the cabinet says that they are all being looked at in more detail and that there is even thought of drawing up agreements. According to D66, there is a high risk of adequate and rapid coordination with other services. Look at Brzo companies, where this is always a big risk. You're hoping it's all well-tuned, but if things don't go well, that could be a risk. We would like more information on this as soon as possible. D66 would like information on the three above-mentioned aspects before we actually bring into force this law. I am prepared to table a motion on this point if necessary. Next, a comment on the evaluation of the ANVS. At the request of my group, the Minister has already indicated that she is prepared to evaluate earlier than after five years. I thank the Minister for that. It seems to me appropriate to clarify this in greater detail in this debate. D66 shares the estimate that the ANVS must have run for two years, but the ANVS has been running for a year. The evaluation could therefore be brought forward. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Finally, I come to the Borssele nuclear power plant. I have a number of questions about that. We have received disturbing signals about the process surrounding the last ten-year evaluation carried out after the Fukushima disaster. The results of the evaluation would not be public. Is that right? If so, why aren't they public? Can't they be made public as soon as possible? What serious reasons are there not to do so? How else do we know if the eleven points of improvement that have been formulated are adequate? We could also discuss this subject in the AA as far as I am concerned, but I think it is important that the Minister should at least indicate whether she can inform the Chamber beforehand. If you want to modify or expand a nuclear power plant, you need to have an environmental impact assessment prepared. Nevertheless, the ANVS has decided that the 11 proposed amendments will have no impact on the environment and that an environmental impact assessment is therefore not necessary. That is a bit crazy when you consider that an environmental impact assessment is precisely intended to reflect the effects of such measures. Then how do we know that the assessment is correct? Borssele must provide enough money to eventually break down the nuclear power plant and prevent the costs from being passed on to society: the ambush fund. There are concerns about this too. Can the Minister at least provide the AO with further information on this fund, including in the context of the division of DELTA? We also expect information on the ongoing debate on whether or not to nationalise Borssele. Three months ago, a study was requested of the possibilities and the advantages and disadvantages of nationalisation. Can the Minister indicate whether that investigation will be available for general consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u3	Mr. Chairman. The most beautiful thing you can do with a nuclear installation was a valuable contribution to the energy dialogue that started today.Ségolène Royale presented today. She proposed that the installation in Fessenheim be converted into a Tesla factory for electric cars. Then I thought, could we do the same with Borssele? I immediately asked my staff if we could table an amendment. In the end, it's politically against me to do that, so I'm gonna leave that alone. However, I thought it was an interesting suggestion from France. All madness on a stick, today we are discussing something very important, namely the supervision of our nuclear installations. I am very pleased that the motion I tabled with my colleague, Mr Veegte, in 2013 today results in a legislative amendment making supervision independent. The cabinet has shown that this has been done very carefully and thoroughly. There is now a ZBO that will pool expertise and knowledge in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection within the government as much as possible. This is a good example of cooperation between Chamber and Cabinet. It shows how suggestions from the Chamber can be taken into account by the Cabinet, which will ultimately benefit citizens in the Netherlands. Control of power stations is increasingly a subject of political debate. This is mainly due to the situation in Belgium. In this case, I believe that the cabinet has acted adequately by jointly shaping the inspection and supervision, following an earlier general consultation that we have had on this issue. I have a number of questions, starting with the IAEA review, to which Mrs Van Veldhoven also referred. There are two points that have emerged from this. Although the core physical service has core competences, a number of analyses require the use of technical offices. For example, there would be only one expert in reactor physics. The PvdA Group welcomes the fact that more FTEs are now being made available, but how does the Minister look at this afterwards? Was monitoring the use of nuclear installations insufficient so far? What was wrong with the transport of radioactive substances? What was wrong with the factors? What factors are meant by this? How exactly has the situation improved? I do not know if this fits within the scope of the debate, but has there been such an IAEA review in Belgium? What were the results of that? If the Minister cannot give the answer now, she can do the same for a subsequent consultation. I have already asked about the ambushing costs to which Mrs Van Veldhoven referred. I am still extremely concerned about this and I do not understand it very well. There was 144 million available in December 2014. In 2004 there was 145 million and in 2012 this would have been 80 million. This would mean that no progress has been made in the Fund in ten years and that there has even been a decline between 2004 and 2008. What's the deal with that, exactly? That's still not clear to me. If it is not possible today, I would like to receive a letter from the cabinet before the vote on this bill. We believe that this ambushing fund should be properly regulated. It is not good if changes are made to the structure of this fund and there will not be enough budget available at the time of the closure of the plant to clean up all the mess and then the taxpayer can pay for it. That's the way it is, of course. We believe that it is important that if we want to close the nuclear power plant earlier, there are sufficient resources to clean up the situation. Did you think about that? If so, in what way? What is the investment policy? Is this the reason why resources fluctuate so strongly over time? We have tabled a motion on the pros and cons of the nationalisation of a nuclear power plant, calling for a response within three months. Has the cabinet implemented this motion and, if so, in what way? The deadline which the Court would like to observe has now expired. Is it true that the Rathenau Institute has advised that account should be taken of the fact that it should be realized sooner or later than expected? It is possible that the nuclear power plant could be closed earlier. What about the money? The EUR 500 million is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u4	I heard Mr Vos speak about the possible closure of Borssele earlier. Agreements have been made and a new permit has been granted for a certain year end, 2034, if I am correct. Does the Labour Party want to close Borssele early?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u5	A deal is a deal. That's how my colleague knows me. The nuclear power plant is currently running at a loss. We have also seen in Belgium that these power stations are old ones that are not doing so well anymore. The question is whether they can resist the public pressure to close earlier. We currently have twice as much electricity available as we need in the Netherlands. These factors mean that such a demand is not entirely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u6	Clear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u7	I have the impression you're at the end of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u9	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Smaling has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u10	I would like to congratulate Mr Vos in a way, because what we are discussing now could almost be called an initiative law based on a motion tabled by Mr Vos with Mr Leegte. Is Mr Vos satisfied with what is now in the law? Among other things, he specifically calls for less fragmentation. Has this been realized in his eyes, too? When you read the explanatory memorandum, you still see that all kinds of sub-responsibilities lie with various ministries. Has there been any progress in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u11	I think the title "initiative law" is too much honor. Writing it is an enormous amount of work, much more than the motion we tabled. All in all, I believe that the cabinet has done a very thorough job and has made good consideration of various issues and how they should be invested. I am grateful to the Cabinet for that care and for the work that has been done. I hope that it will ultimately result in better supervision of our nuclear installations, because that is very important for our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u12	So it's basically just an initiative law that was implemented by the government. I think it's so smart that you're honoring your last name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u13	If the cabinet were to respond to all the motions in this way, I would also be happy, but that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u14	We are now returning to the examination of the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u15	Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like to thank the Minister for the legislative proposal before us and for the efforts made by its Ministry. The CDA also sees opportunities for technological advances in nuclear applications in the future. In addition, nuclear energy is a stable energy source without CO emissions. The CDA therefore sees nuclear energy as part of the energy mix, and it is precisely for this reason that the monitoring of the safety of nuclear installations is of an excellent level. The CDA has confidence in the newly created and bundled supervisor, the Nuclear Safety Authority and Radiation Protection. I'll use the abbreviation ANVS after this. As an independent administrative body, it will be governed by the Ministry of I and M. This is a good guarantee of the independence of nuclear policy and of companies in the field. It is important for us that the ANVS has sufficient capacity for supervision. Can the Minister assure us that this is the case? The ANVS started on 1 January 2015. Can the Minister indicate to what extent she is satisfied with the functioning of the organisation so far? Does it really solve the fragmentation we have all seen before? We were just talking about that. Is the scarce specialist knowledge secured? That's what the CDA really cares about. D66 just asked questions about the congress on nuclear safety, recently in the United States. Of course, the question was also raised as to what is happening with our nuclear installations in the Netherlands. Are they sufficiently protected against terrorist attacks? The discussion focused mainly on the arms of the security guards. The CDA believes it is important that we go into this in more detail, because on 9/11, security in the United States has been re-examined and new measures have been taken to strengthen security for the nuclear safety authority. In view of the increased terrorist threat in Europe, I would like to know from the Minister whether she also thinks it is a good idea to look further at this at European level. Is it prepared to provide additional security information on terrorist attacks and to take additional measures where necessary? This is also important in the context of a level playing field and in the calculation of the costs that may arise from it. After all, we want a level playing field in Europe. I would like to hear whether the Minister would like to investigate this and whether she would like to give a feedback to the House of Representatives, as far as possible in relation to security. In addition, there are of course new developments such as advanced cyber attacks and drones. The CDA wonders whether our nuclear installations are sufficiently protected from this. Is there sufficient attention to this? The CDA considers it very important that the Netherlands retains its various nuclear knowledge infrastructure and companies. This is important for science and our prosperity. The CDA therefore wants to join international cooperation, so that future developments of companies in the Netherlands in the nuclear field are encouraged. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? What is the state of the nuclear research programme under the Energy Union package? Does the Minister think that broadening to the ministries of OCW and VWS is desirable, given the broad knowledge of materials that the Netherlands has in Petten, for example? I also ask this because on page 16 of the explanatory statement the tasks of other ministers and organisations are mentioned, but this whole aspect is missing. I would therefore like to receive an explanation from the Minister on this point. How does she see this? And of course, it was hit again this morning in Belgium. I know that we agreed to discuss this further next Tuesday. So we will do that at another time, but it is a heart cry of many inhabitants. Mrs Van Veldhoven has already spoken about this. How many more incidents can we expect? How can the role of the ANVS be taken up? How structural is this role in joint inspections with our Belgian neighbours? How can the Minister make positive changes to this? Can it ensure that municipalities and provinces are properly informed at the right time by Belgian colleagues? I will not read a whole section of my text. I'm rounding up. The Research Council for Security has announced that it may want to look at the concerns of our residents and our directors, especially about what is happening in Belgium. How does the Minister view this? Can she go into that? I tried to be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u16	Thank you very much. There are still opportunities for other aspects of this matter to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u17	Mr. Chairman. Reference has already been made to the motion by Mr Vos and Mr Void, who in 2013 led to the establishment of an independent authority in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection. That is not the only reason for this change of law. International legislation also stipulates that the nuclear authorities must be independent and operate independently of politics. It is therefore not only a national wish, but also an international obligation. The Netherlands did not fulfil that obligation and therefore this legislative amendment is necessary. The Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority, ANVS, should be able to operate independently and not be subordinate to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. The VVD therefore agrees with the chosen form of an independent administrative body (zbo). A ZBO is in this case the most appropriate structure, because it ensures that the ANVS can operate without pressure from conflicting or political interests. Safety comes first. Knowledge is also brought together in this authority. The Minister of I & M has limited control over the independent administrative body, inter alia through the power to take measures, should the ANVS neglect its role. Can the Minister indicate in what situations it might occur that the ANVS neglects its task? How can we prevent political interests from playing a role? After all, we do not want that. In the new legislative proposal, the Minister for Economic Affairs remains solely responsible for the composition of the energy mix and therefore for the position of nuclear energy in energy policy. We simply do not have to have a discussion about nuclear energy. I won't. However, as long as there is nuclear material on Dutch soil, it is important that safety is adequately guaranteed. Finally, the ANVS was created for this purpose. The core task of the ANVS is to monitor nuclear safety by imposing rules, granting permits and, of course, inspections for enforcement. The licensing, monitoring and enforcement process covers five major installations: the Borssele nuclear power plant, the research reactors in Petten and Delft, the enrichment plant of URENCO in Almelo and the COVRA, where storage takes place. However, there is also a lot of transport. There are also medical applications at various smaller locations and research is being carried out. In industry, too, radioactive materials are often used. In the Netherlands there are about 2000 licence holders. It is important that these organisations have sufficient trained and qualified staff to deal with it, as this contributes to safety. However, in view of the multitude and variety of licence holders, is there sufficient expert staff at the ANVS to finish all those 2000 licence holders? The VVD believes that the primary responsibility of course always rests with the person who works with the nuclear material. We can't rule out risks. The primate lies with that party. Because it can have serious consequences if you deal with it wrongly or if you do not comply with your agreements, it is up to the ANVS to keep a sharp eye on it. The ANVS has already started. Can the Minister tell us what the experiences have been up to now? Is the ANVS fully up and running, fully operational? How does cooperation between the Authority and the Ministry proceed? What frequency is there contact; how does it work? The VVD would also like to know whether, in recent months, things have already been noticed in practice that need to be organised differently to ensure the important role as an independent authority. I thank the Minister for all her work and wish her every success in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u18	Mr. Chairman. It is an important legislative proposal on an issue that concerns us all very much. In the Netherlands nuclear power is not a very large sector, but it is a very varied one, with Borssele, Petten, URENCO where other things happen again, Delft and of course recently with what happened in neighbouring countries. I have to remember the hit Belgium, which was performed by Het Goede Goel. It's weird that they had such a vision back then. Nuclear power and disposal of final waste weigh the risks and the vulnerability of people and the environment. The question then is how to deal with these two in such a way as to minimise the risk arising from them. With nuclear power, you'd like the risk to be zero. After all, when things go wrong, it takes such apocalyptic forms that an authority, which has now been established, plays a very important role in it. The dangers are very diverse in themselves. Two years ago there was a problem in Petten with the safety culture. At the time, attention was paid to this in the Chamber. In the field of URENCO there was a small contamination. In itself, that was well received, but immediately the whole region was troubled. It may be very fictitious, but after 1953, we were able to dam or dam a lot of sea holes, except for the Westerschelde. This includes both Borssele and Goal. There is, however, some risk in every possible way. You can now see it in the newspaper, like last week in Het Parool: the United States think that the Netherlands is a bit less well equipped to protect nuclear power plants. The Nuclear Threat Initiative says our country is the outcast in the nuclear safety index. That actually caused me some concern. I understand that the Minister cannot go into detail about the way in which the safety of nuclear power stations and nuclear waste is regulated. I do not want her to do that either, but I think it is a good thing that she should indicate as far as she can go in there where we are around the entire international nuclear power circuit and the security surrounding it. It would make sense to have a little more feeling about that. After all, that one crack at Doel and that other danger at Tihange around pollution of the Meuse put a lot of people immediately in motion. I refer to municipalities in the Netherlands and in North Rhine-Westphalia where people go to court as a private person, as a group or as a local government. A German minister said to Belgium: you are playing Russian roulette with your two nuclear power stations. All this is not nice and causes a lot of unrest in the region. I do not need to add that recent attacks have only increased this sense of insecurity. That is a whole series of dangers that we are aware of. The key question to the Minister is: does the establishment of this authority, in her view, lead to better security for each other? In paragraph 5.7 of the explanatory statement, I just spoke about it in the interrupting debate with Mr Vos..................................................................................................................................................................................... When you see what's invested in truth, it's not so strange in itself, but you're not rid of the fragmentation with that. You can also see a lot of inspections, from state supervision of the Mines to the inspection of the Minister himself and a lot between them, which also have their responsibilities. The somewhat negative question is whether we are not happy with a dead sparrow or not shifting the fragmentation from A to B. The reduction of vulnerability consists of the distribution of iodine pills, better handling of dismantling and final disposal of radioactive material. But in the end, the question is whether there really is a concrete plan of action or a contingency plan, if you would call it that, in case something goes wrong. Has anything changed in the way that can unfold? I am also concerned about another point raised by colleagues, namely that the advice of the International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, shows that there is very limited capacity available at the posts where people should actually monitor the situation. Is it and has it been recognized and addressed by the Minister? Technical Support Offices at the Authority... with all due respect, but I'm getting a little outsourcing. I get a sense of ProRail: you have little money, you put it away from contractors who want to do it almost below cost and are done. So you don't get what the citizen needs. Now ProRail is less risky than nuclear power stations and radioactive material, but still. Actually, we should keep that in our own hands. As far as I am concerned, this is really the key question: when can the Minister intervene? Can it still intervene when there is a need to do so? Does it not impose too much on the authority or on delegated organisations working for the authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u19	I am also looking forward to a reflection by the Minister on the possibility of setting further policy rules and possibly deciding on destruction. In her replies, she is limited. She says she doesn't really want to use it further. Do I hear the SP Group say that, like the Council of State, it wants the Minister to do so comprehensively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u20	Just so we're clear, what is it? Destroying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u21	The Minister has the opportunity, in connection with the Framework Law, to destroy decisions on the basis of the general interest, but she deliberately does not. She does not use it in this bill. Isn't that a hollowing out of that right that I think the SP is now advocating? Another important point is that the Minister says that she does not make use of the opportunity to lay down general policy rules. I see her nodding. She doesn't want to use that right. I hear the SP Group here asking whether its right is not being undermined. I would ask both the SP and the Minister to go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u22	For the moment, the question is first for the SP, because it is now up to the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u23	That remark is quite right. I am indeed asking the Minister this question because I am really looking forward to her answer. It matters a lot. We can just be very formal and say: okay, it's been set at a distance and so we don't have to worry about that anymore. I think that on certain issues, such as those we are talking about now, you should ask that question about intervention. The destruction that Mrs Mulder mentioned is part of it. I'd like to hear the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u24	That's what the CDA, with the SP, would like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u25	I wonder whether Mr Smaling of the SP believes that such an authority should be sufficiently independent, whether it should stand at a distance from politics and whether it should have its own budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u26	If it is internationally the norm that there are ANVSs everywhere and if they are properly consulted with each other, then I think you should give them a degree of independence. We hope that security will last longer than cabinet periods. You've got to take care of that so it's done properly. But if it is necessary to intervene and action is to be taken very quickly, then at such a time there must be a power with a ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u27	Are you going to continue your speech or were you finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u28	I was finishing up; I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u29	I understand that Mr Smaling wishes to maintain the possibility of intervention, precisely from the point of view of the promotion of security. But if security and politics are more mixed together, the political balance could also arise in order not to intervene for a moment, for example because one wants to put energy interests first. Is this independence not the right guarantee that security always goes beyond political considerations? Should we not therefore be very careful to create all kinds of opportunities for politics to intervene? Should the assessment of safety by experts not therefore be paramount?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u30	I think the people would like the government to give such an order for intervention. From the current discussion in the United States about this, simple things follow: there is an incident, someone has managed to give themselves access to a power station or there is a combination of a hack and someone who has provided themselves with an entrance. Whether you're there in two or ten minutes, a world can make a difference. We must therefore be able to roll out an action immediately and someone must instruct us to do so. If the authority and the ruler are very close together, that seems to me to be fine, but such an immediate action at that particular moment seems to me to be a real task of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u31	Why would this have to go through the inspection? And why should the government not immediately switch with the company it is talking about and look together with the company at what is deemed necessary on the basis of the information for the scaling-up of the level of security? So the question is whether the route through the inspection is the only way. Or is it precisely a question of the inspection being able to consider a certain action important for safety, regardless of what the government considers desirable or not? Is the latter not actually purer and more in the interests of safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u32	I suggest we first hear from the Minister what she thinks is the most effective route. If she supports that well, we can or cannot agree to it. It's for the best. I had a silly question, but after all the interruptions, I might as well drop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u33	Mr. Chairman. Old age comes with flaws. This applies not only to people but also to nuclear power stations. This morning, which was a while ago when I looked at the clock, I woke up with the news that the target 1 nuclear power plant was shut down again because of faults. That's worrying. Social unrest over the safety of nuclear power is increasing. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing this bill today. This legislative proposal will create one authority responsible for the authorisation and supervision of nuclear safety and radiation protection. The Christian Union supports this proposal and also welcomes the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment for this independent administrative body. For example, the independent position is emphasized as much as possible. We will soon have an independent supervisor who does not belong to the Ministry responsible for energy policy. In my contribution, I will address this independent position, the provision of information to citizens, international cooperation and, finally, financial security for the decommissioning of nuclear installations. First of all, I come to independence. In a sector with so few players and so few experts, there is a risk that there will be too little critical power at some point. Many people in the sector know each other. Security must be at the forefront and not the interests of the sector. How does the Minister intend to guarantee this? There have recently been errors with the permit for the export of depleted uranium to Russia. There will be a debate on this later. This does not yet give the confidence needed in an independent supervisor. It raises the question whether the ANVS in its present composition has sufficient knowledge and experience to be the independent watchdog that it should be. In the context of the creation of the ANVS, a further analysis of the structural tasks and costs of the ANVS will be carried out this year. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, it looks not only at formation, but also at ensuring independence. On paper it seems to be well regulated in this law, but it also requires something from the culture of the organisation. I come to my second point: the provision of information. The ANVS is given the important task of informing citizens about nuclear safety. However, this is not further specified in the legislative proposal, except for the already mandatory provision of information in the event of an accident. With the amendment in part No. 4 I arrange for the annual reporting of unusual events in establishments and the recently launched reports on these events on the website of the ANVS to be required by law. I have included the wish that this information should also cover unusual events over the border, such as those in Doel and Tihange, so that Dutch citizens can go to one place for this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u34	The said amendment is the amendment in part No. 11. You said no. 4, but it's probably numbered again. I'm just saying that to avoid confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u35	Thank you. The ANVW can of course only offer this information if it receives it from fellow authorities in our neighbouring countries. I am confident that this Minister will be able to make good agreements with her colleagues across the border. That makes me right on my block about international cooperation. In the international nuclear world, continuous improvement of nuclear safety is the guiding principle. Mutual cooperation and the exchange of experience, knowledge and ideas are therefore of high priority. Should this principle of continuous improvement not also affect safety standards and enforcement? Each country is, of course, responsible for its own enforcement and it is good that, in addition, there is a European stress test. However, this is a thematic peer review focusing on specific safety issues carried out by the industry itself. Isn't that all it takes? For example, there are no European security limits. As a result, each country has different criteria. The cracks in the reactor vessel in Belgium would have led to closure in Germany until the cause was clear. However, this did not happen in Belgium. Is the Minister prepared to advocate European security boundaries in Europe? It is a good thing that the bill in Article 3 (3) (f) stresses that the ANVS should cooperate with the authorities in our neighbouring countries, who would also notice the consequences if Borssele were to fail. On the other hand, however, the Netherlands has an interest in the safety of the plants in Doel and Tihange in Belgium. Furthermore, the concept of "cooperation" is very broad. I have therefore tabled an amendment, in my view the amendment on item No. 12, which provides that the ANVS also has the task of monitoring the safety of facilities just across the border. It's an amendment from the Christian Union and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u36	That is indeed the amendment on item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u37	Of course, this can only happen if the authority in the neighbouring country cooperates. However, peer monitoring seems to me to be in both interests. You can learn from each other and it gives confidence to your own citizens. It is therefore a good thing that joint inspections of the Dutch and Belgian inspectors at nuclear power stations have recently been carried out. By allowing each other's observers, their own responsibility for enforcement and monitoring remains intact, but can be learned from each other at the same time. I would like to hear how the Minister intends to deal with observers in the future. Are we going to do this occasionally or will it have a structural basis? We don't talk much about the Nuclear Energy Act. A topical issue which I would like to raise in this debate concerns the funds that are being built up under the Nuclear Energy Act to provide financial security for the decommissioning of our nuclear power plants. I am doing this on behalf of Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks, who cannot be present at this debate tonight. The law and the decision based on it currently require that every five years a review is made of the adequacy of the fund. This period is too long to keep a good finger on the wrist. With, I believe, the amendment to item No. 9 The Christian Union and GroenLinks therefore propose that, in addition to the existing update obligation, the operator should provide annual access to the level of coverage of the decommissioning fund. In the event of a deficit for two years in a row, the holder of the authorisation shall submit an updated financial guarantee. This is in line with the deadline for pension funds, which must also map their return annually. The present fund is based on a certain closure date for the Borssele nuclear power plant, but what happens if, for whatever reason, the nuclear power plant has to be shut down sooner? Shouldn't we arrange for the fund to be filled faster for this reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u38	You are indeed talking about the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u39	Thank you. There is much more to be said about nuclear energy. It is therefore a good thing that the Chamber will soon be discussing this matter with the Minister. Then we will discuss the safety and risks of our nuclear installations, their security and the incidents that have occurred. I look forward to that debate, but I am looking forward to a future without nuclear power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u40	That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u41	Mr. Chairman. There is a legislative proposal to formalise the ANVS as a supervisory organisation. There is a history of this that some Members of Parliament know longer than I do, because it has been a discussion in other committees in the past and they have played their part in it. To go back to 2013: the Minister of Economic Affairs was responsible for policy, regulation, licensing and supervision of nuclear safety and radiation protection. He was supported by four different official organisations, of which two were in Economic Affairs and two were in the Inspection Environment and Transport of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment. So there was actually a fragmentation of tasks. I remember discussions from that time when the Minister for Economic Affairs was concerned about whether supervision could be properly designed with that division. It was also true that having a single hand in policy making, i.e. nuclear policy or energy policy in the broad sense, and monitoring radiation protection and nuclear safety was not a desirable situation. The Chamber has noted that. The Vos/Veegte motion has been mentioned in that context and the IAEA has commented on it, as has Euratom. This was discussed following the Fukushima disaster in 2011. It was said then that much more clarity had to be created. All this has resulted in the cabinet finally choosing to separate the roles and not to give responsibility to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for energy policy, at the same time for monitoring them. I formally took that from him in May 2015. In the meantime, we have chosen to design the ANVS earlier, namely in February 2015, to make a legislative proposal and submit it to your Chamber. Now we are really going to formalize the ANVS, but we are actually working a bit in the light of what we have intended to do with this bill. Why wait for that if you can do it better this way? On June 4th, we submitted the bill for the ANVS as a zbo to your Chamber. At the same time, we sent the second IAEA recommendation to the House of Representatives. Asked why we're only doing this now. You have chosen to deal with this bill only now. That seems to me to be a quick thing to do, because there is a lot involved in such a bill. It's a good thing we're dealing with this now. First of all, I would like to make a number of comments about the ANVS, the organisation which is the main subject of this evening's debate. Then I would like to make a number of comments on nuclear safety and the decommissioning fund, for which they are either directly or indirectly co-responsible. I also make comments about security and I answer questions that have been asked about security externally, not about nuclear safety, but actually about the threat side. Finally, I would like to comment on the comments that have been made on Belgium. This is about the ANVS tonight, but a lot has also been said about the neighbors. Last but not least, I give my opinion on the amendments. First of all, I'll be on the ANVS. With retroactive effect, a number of members of this Chamber have asked whether the core competences of the ANVS are sufficient, whether the monitoring of the use of nuclear installations has been insufficient and, if so, what has been lacking in the past in the transport of radioactive substances. They also asked what was wrong with the factors and what exactly were meant by them and what was done to improve those human factors, those human factors. First of all, I'm talking about capacity. The ANVS started on 1 January 2015 with a formation of 122 fte. These people have been viewed by international gremia. The organisation has also been assessed as adequate by international bodies. In 2016 we will make a further analysis of the structural tasks and costs of the ANVS. The formation will also be part of that. The analysis may have consequences for this. The plan is to complete the analysis before 1 July 2016, to inform the Chamber in the autumn of the results and, if necessary, to include them in the 2017 budget. My view now is that it works so well, but we are doing that further analysis and, if it is not enough, we will come back to the Chamber. Was supervision not enough at first? No, the supervision was not insufficient, but the pooling of knowledge with the ANVS and the availability of joint staff for specialist assessments, I think, has increased the expertise and improved supervision. At present, the ANVS has a number of staff with specific reactor physical training, and a number of other employees have reactor physical knowledge and experience. It is constantly working to keep this knowledge up-to-date, for example through training. Where it has been asked in the past whether it is not a bit of a scary basis, the merger has led to a broader basis and it is now much better to train together. Transport surveillance was insufficient in the past. The Inspection Environment and Transport supervises the transport of radioactive substances, especially as regards general transport requirements such as requirements on the means of transport, packaging, driver and documents. The ANVS supervises radiation protection and security. There was and is sufficient specialist knowledge at both organisations. The supervision by the ANVS is mainly aimed at the transports with the highest risk, such as nuclear transports, but we are also considering whether there should be more supervision of transports with a lower risk. This is taken into account by me in the capacity study mentioned above. In short, and this will occur on more points: we have made a bundling of the specialists and of the tasks we have, and we are now looking at whether we can get even better in the future and whether we need additional people to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u42	This is a natural moment for an interruption, by the looks of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u43	Yes, I'm going further on this point, but I'm waiting for the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u44	Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u45	In my speech, I did indeed ask for attention to be paid to sources other than nuclear reactors. I am glad that the Minister says: we are going to look at this, but what will be the balancing framework for her to determine whether or not the ANVS should interfere with these transports? How is she going to determine that? This is, after all, a determining factor in determining whether there is sufficient capacity. What does that make her assessment framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u46	That's gonna be a risk assessment. We will really have to look at when something is perceived as risk and when not, based on national and international knowledge. I do not think I should do that myself on political grounds. This should be done mainly on the basis of experiences that we have wider, worldwide. On this basis we will also consider whether you would like to have a more intensive involvement of the ANVS for transports with a lower risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u47	Is this risk limited to a technical risk, namely what does it mean to transport radiant material? Or do I need to see that risk wider? Is the risk of something happening to that material that we would find undesirable? How wide does the Minister define the risk? Or how broad will they be advised on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u48	I myself think there is a third risk, namely external threats. The technical risk actually includes the risk that something will happen to the material, because technically, of course, you just want nothing to go wrong. That's your trade-off. Besides, you have the threat risks. I shall come back to that later, because that is actually a separate branch of sport. I can imagine that, with the parties responsible for this, we will consider whether it is reasonable to consider whether we should have more control over these matters as well. If so, is that a supervisory role the ANVS should play? After all, it looks mainly at nuclear safety. Or is it a role that needs to be invested somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u49	It's nice if the Minister is willing to look at it in that width. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u50	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u51	I have a short question about the analysis of the ANVS that will take place in 2016 and will be coming to the Chamber this year. That analysis also goes into the formation. Is this analysis not only quantitative, but also qualitative? I am not just talking about knowledge and expertise here, I have every confidence in this, but I am also talking about critical reflection and independence. Are those parts of that analysis, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u52	Analysis will always be quantitative and qualitative. After all, you have to see if you have the right people in your house to get the tasks you are facing done. I think that is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u53	Thank you for the commitment. Again, it is only a relatively limited group of people who have this knowledge and expertise. I believe that internal critical reflection and independence are crucial. But the minister's on it. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u54	I also think that independence is very important. I have also fought myself within the cabinet to invest this task with me, precisely because I think it is so important that there is a separation between policy and supervision, and despite the fact that it is, of course, quite a complex portfolio. I also attach great importance to this independent supervision. Problems with nuclear energy have such a huge effect. Therefore, you must always consider that as an almost separate role and task for which you bear responsibility. I come to the monitoring of the factors. The monitoring of management systems and factors has recently been increasingly focused on all technologically more complex areas, such as aviation, the process industry and oil and gas extraction. I am talking here about the influence of man on management and vice versa. Developments in the control of the nuclear industry are actually following a very similar path. The ANVS also connects with this by actively aligning the adoption policies of new inspectors and the training policies of ANVS inspectors with international developments. The ANVS also connects with the development of monitoring methods. The ANVS also conducts targeted inspections, for example on the safety culture. The constant improvement was also called for. I think it was a question from the Christian Union. One of the guiding principles within the nuclear world is the continuous improvement, or the continuous improvement. They all use the last term, because almost everything is done internationally, but I gave the Dutch translation first. This is also important for keeping the knowledge and experience of the staff up-to-date. The IAEA applies the principle to its reviews. The application of the principle has also contributed greatly to increasing the level of safety in the nuclear world. Each review therefore leads to recommendations on knowledge and capabilities, as there are always areas where improvements are possible. In other words, if I am asked if I am satisfied, I am never happy, because I can always do better. I think that's the attitude we need to have with each other. Improving doesn't mean you did it wrong for that, but you're increasing your ambition. Am I prepared to bring forward the ANVS' evaluation? The framework law on Zbos is subject to a five-year evaluation period. In the note of report, I have already indicated my willingness to make an earlier evaluation. I am prepared to evaluate after one whole cycle of budgetary and accountability. I think that's important. This means that the evaluation can take place in 2018, after the ANVS has issued the 2017 annual report. On this basis, it will be possible to monitor the content of the evaluation. Why has the organisational structure for nuclear safety not been adapted before? That is because the independence of a regulatory body is being interpreted more strictly since the accident in Fukushima on 11 March 2011, or will I call it a regulatory body. The amendment of the Euratom Nuclear Safety Directive of 8 July 2014 is related to this. This bill actually implements the directive on this point. In January 2014, as a government, we decided to change the organisational structure for nuclear safety and radiation protection. As I said at the beginning, in January 2015, the existing tasks and expertise were brought together in the ANVS. This bill was submitted to the Chamber in June 2015. In the past, fragmentation had already been observed. In particular, the objection was that fragmentation resulted in an undesirable loss of coordination between the different ministries. It also made the existence and maintenance of critical mass difficult. That was the reason for bringing things together. Mrs Mulder and Mr Dijkstra asked if I am satisfied with the ANVS so far. You never say you're ready. I am satisfied with the way things are now, let me put it this way. The pooling of expertise has yielded a great deal. There are many benefits. The availability of staff with specialist assessment knowledge has increased. The IAEA IRRS mission concluded as early as November 2014 that the ANVS has a competent staff. I'm happy. I have confidence in the future of the ANVS, but we have already talked about the principle of continuous improvement. It can always be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u55	I am pleased that the Minister is prepared to evaluate earlier than after five years. The ANVS has been running unofficially for a year now. In 2018, we expect a follow-up mission from the IAEA. It would be very nice if the evaluation had not been carried out before that time. Then we have already identified our own points of improvement. Isn't that desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u56	I indicated that we could come up with an evaluation in 2018. It depends on when exactly that follow-up mission takes place. I can take a look at it and then I'll come back to the AO. That is not necessarily important for the moment. The annual report for 2017 will only be published in May 2018. It also depends on how fast that goes. I'll look up when that follow-up mission takes place. At least there's a lot you can do in preparation. Then maybe you're not quite done, but you'll already have a lot of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u57	If we share that intention, we can discuss the details in the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u58	In connection with the vision of the supervision of the ANVS, I have been asked whether I would like to indicate that there will be no additional monitoring body. No Supervisory Board shall be set up for the ANVS. It is also in line with government policy not to create new supervisory boards. I'm actually working on that oversight vision right now. I will continue to work on how I will give concrete substance to the powers that I have under the institutional law. I can't give you a look at that right now because we're still working on it. Some MPs were wondering whether I did not give away too many powers to the ANVS. I attach an independent role to a supervisory body. That means that as a minister, you have to confine yourself to the matters you're dealing with. I'm gonna start with the stuff I'm talking about. My powers are still appointment, suspension and dismissal of the board members of the ANVS, requesting information from the ANVS, annulment of decisions of the ANVS when they are contrary to the law and provision of services in the event of neglect of a job. I will go into both the last two points in detail later. I would not want to have more powers because of the independence of the ANVS. For example, I have waived the power to destroy decisions in the context of the general interest. I will destroy decisions if they violate the law. Everyone must abide by the law as we know it. Suppose I should destroy decisions in the public interest, what interest is that? Is that what is important for us to have nuclear power? Can't there be closure? Is that a medical issue? Think of the medical instruments we make with the help of nuclear materials. Is there an energy policy interest? You can come up with anything. I wouldn't want that. I think it is very important that there is independent judgment. That justifies the fact that a minister can only destroy a decision if there is a violation of the law. I can also intervene if the ANVS neglects tasks. Mr Dijkstra asked how I could deal with this and when it would occur. This is the case when there is structural dysfunction of the ANVS, think of structurally inadequate supervision and structurally inadequate permits. In such a situation, the Minister may make the necessary arrangements under the Framework Act independent administrative bodies. That is always a final piece of the intervention ladder in the supervision. It's an ultimatum remedium. That is why I am rather reluctant in my answers about what kind of resources I have. But I can do it, in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u59	There is an interruption by Mr Dijkstra, perhaps in order to avoid a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u60	That's right, Mr. Chairman. How does the Minister prevent politics from playing a role in this? How do we really guarantee that independence? I do trust her, but of course we don't know exactly who's gonna sit next to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u61	I hope we always make laws regardless of the person standing here and the trust that the Chamber has in him or her. A law must create confidence in every type of politician that stands here in the future. The way it is now designed indicates that it is a last resort. The Chamber has already seen that in the general interest we have limited ourselves in destroying decisions. That political side is actually no longer possible, only if it is contrary to the law. Of course, we always have a discussion here in the Chamber when something is contrary to the law. The framework law provides for the possibility to intervene if someone neglects his or her duties. The Chamber, regardless of responsibility, if tasks are neglected, would like me to intervene in the end, whether I am, or my successor. This does not allow you to use your political interests as a motivation, but really the neglect of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u62	Indeed, I see that as sufficient safeguards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u63	The Council of State says that these opportunities were offered, whereas at first it seemed more or less that this could not be done because of international aspects. So this is really a very conscious policy choice of the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, should I sum it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u64	We have chosen to have that opportunity because you need an independent role on the content. The substantive assessment must therefore be completely independent. Of the task and the fulfilment of it, as a minister, you think it should be done. I hope the Chamber agrees. You have to have an instrument somewhere to make sure that happens. I have a very different example: you can sell the shares of Schiphol, provided you agree with the person who owns the shares that he still lets planes land and he's not just going to run the shops there. Even then, even if you're remote, as a government, you'll always have to settle something legally. It may be something very different, but I remember that debate from the past. Actually, it's true here, too. You want to exercise that distance. You record that clearly, but you also specify how to intervene when the public interest is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u65	In 2018 we may have that evaluation. Would the Minister therefore like to address this point very specifically, so how it has happened in recent times and in the coming years and where it might have pinched? I am thinking, for example, of terrorism. Can you or can you not discuss the subject properly and how does it work? I'm trying to imagine that in practice. That is why these questions have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u66	I will come to the questions about safety, because of course they are also largely invested outside the ANVS, but that does not mean that the ANVS is not involved in this in any way. I'll get to that in a minute. I will certainly look at the responsibilities involved in the evaluation and whether they are appropriate or not. I come to nuclear safety. How do I guarantee that the importance of nuclear safety is paramount? The ANVS is a guardian of the importance of nuclear safety. The ANVS comes to its opinion independently. I can only intervene in the decision-making of the ANVS in exceptional cases. I've said that before. This is actually what the ANVS exists for and for which the authority was created. Some more specific questions have been asked about stress tests. Is there no need for more than just the international stress tests? Am I gonna argue for lower limits? Much more is already happening now than just the stress tests, both in Europe and internationally through the IAEA. Recently, the EU Directive on nuclear safety has been amended to make further demands on safety. They also included Fukushima's lessons. So this has already given much more precise interpretation of international safety requirements. Following this stress test and the ten-year evaluation, a number of proposals have been made. It was finally decided that no EIA should be drawn up for these proposals. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked what was the reason for that decision. The reason is that, of course, the improvements resulting from this stress test and from the ten-year evaluation do not have negative effects on the environment, but positive effects. We are talking about improvements in relation to the current situation. This is the reason why the ANVS has concluded that there are no significant adverse effects on the environment due to the changes and that the preparation of an EIA is therefore not necessary. That judgment is set out in the decision of 11 September 2015, which is also on the website of the ANVS. On 9 December 2015, EPZ applied for a change of authorisation. On 7 April, the draft licence, the application, as well as the other documents relating to the application, were made available for inspection and published on the Internet. Mrs Van Veldhoven from D66 asked for this too. These were the 10EFTA measures and all kinds of reports from the past. On 7 April last. So it's been published. The conceptual improvement plan has also been published, which summarises the results of the evaluation. I shall now turn to questions relating to the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u67	I would like to ask a question on security, also in order to prevent a motion from being tabled. The Minister said that there is a European directive on nuclear safety, including Fukushima's lessons. However, I understand from a number of experts that the rules in force within Europe are certainly not clear and that the question remains whether there is a clear lower limit. Can the Minister explain this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u68	I do not know the term 'lower limit' in relation to the rules that apply in Europe. Maybe I can come back to it at the end of my contribution, under the heading "other'. Maybe my people can say something about that. Otherwise, I might be able to comment on the debate we will have later. In the meantime I get a note, but that has nothing to do with subjugation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u69	That'd be pretty quick, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u70	Yeah, but sometimes people already know a little about what's going to be asked. What exactly is the situation with the nuclear power plant Borssele decommissioning fund? It is estimated that decommissioning will cost 500 million in 2033. EPZ must have paid that amount into the fund by 2030. In 2011, EPZ paid 80 million into the fund. There's 144 million in it right now. Every year, 15 million have to be paid into the fund. EPZ is on schedule when filling the fund. Of course there can always be a problem, for example if Borssele closes earlier or DELTA as the largest customer would no longer buy electricity from Borssele. During the energy debate on 23 March last, my colleague Mr Kamp said that there were talks with the parties involved. The Minister of EZ has undertaken to share the conclusions of those talks with the House of Representatives. I see that this has been promised by him quite recently. So I think that information will come. In any case, I will remind him once again of the interest shown by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u71	The Minister talks about an amount of 80 million in 2011. I saw there was 145 million in the fund in 2004. There may be some bad years in between, but this is a drastic decline. Can the Minister explain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u72	I understand that there is a difference between the ambushing fund and the supply of nuclear power stations. The supply of nuclear power plants has existed since 2004 and contained 145 million in that year. The ambush fund didn't exist at the time. In 2012, as part of the financial guarantee, the government demanded the establishment of the Foundation for the Management of Decommissioning Funds at the nuclear power station Borssele. This foundation manages the ambushing fund, which is fed by the deposits. The initial deposit was 80 million. Each year, 15 million are paid into the fund. I understand that the supply of ambushed nuclear power plants amounted to 230 million in 2014, while the ambushed fund contained 144 million. There are therefore two different elements involved. I hope that will give clarity to Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u73	That provision was then used for something else, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u74	I have to take a look, because, as you know, my colleague is mainly working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u75	I'm going way back in time. I do not want to make it too difficult for the Minister; she may also come back to it at a later date. I am trying to demonstrate that it is difficult to conduct a consistent investment policy and a consistent reservation policy over a longer period of time. Would it not be useful, now that we are discussing the law today, to lay down by law how the fund should be fed and how the investments should take place? We see that in the longer term problems arise with pension funds. The last thing I want to do is to remove the nuclear power station and then have a debate about the fact that there is no fund, looking back at the Acts and saying: that fox of the PvdA did warn at that time, but he did not bite through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u76	Long-term funds with good and bad times in terms of interest have years of rapid growth and years of less rapid growth. You should look at the question of how to record reservations for the years of less rapid growth. I understand that Minister Kamp has promised the Chamber to return to this issue and to discuss it with the partners and to shape it. That's not in the determination of the ANVS. It is not the one who saves or who is responsible for fund formation. The ANVS is the one who will pay attention to whether everything will be present. That's my role in the ambush. I think it's very good that you stay on top of it and bite yourself instead of biting through. I think it would be good to wait for the letter and see what both the Minister of EZ and the Minister of Finance are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u77	An amendment refers to defensive investment policy that should be maintained. Today we are discussing the Nuclear Energy Act. So there is certainly a possibility to record this. The Minister will come to the appreciation of the amendments. Know that this amendment is our warmest interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u78	That is the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u79	Yes. I would like to draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u80	I'll get to that later. Once again, I understand that there will be a letter from the Minister of Economic Affairs or the Minister of Finance, as the first captain himself, we will also sign up to the question of what will happen to the budgets. Another letter concerns the nationalisation of the Borssele nuclear power station. That is what Mr Vos asked for. During the debate on energy on 23 March, my colleague for Economic Affairs informed the Chamber orally about the cabinet's position. I'll just repeat what he said. He said that running a nuclear power plant is not a core business of the government, that this does not fit in with state participation policy and that the cabinet has no plans to consider nationalisation as an option. I recognize the directness of my colleague, Mr Kamp, when I see these words. There will be a letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance on the implementation of this motion. I come to the broadening of nuclear research into OCW and VWS. That again relates to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u81	That motion was passed with a majority of the House. I also know the directness of Minister Kamp, but I assume that the cabinet appreciates the constitutional relations in the Netherlands. We ask you to respond within three months. You can't do that. Fine, but when can that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u82	I understand that Mr Kamp said on 23 March that there will be a letter about the way in which the motion is appreciated. I am familiar with constitutional relations. I also know that it will be very difficult to put something next to you as a government. The government must make a very clear statement on what it considers desirable and not desirable. If necessary, we shall have to discuss this again. It seems to me appropriate to await the substantive justification of the reply to the motion. Perhaps a content which has a different form than the one requested in the motion will satisfy you as well. Then I'm fine. If not, then the Chamber is always called upon to draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u83	I know it's the associate, but when is that response expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u84	I don't think there's anyone here who knows that right now, but we can make a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u85	If it's okay with the members, I'm okay with it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u86	Mrs Mulder asked whether the broadening of nuclear research on OCW and VWS would be desirable. The Ministry of Education has always been involved in its responsibility for scientific research, for example within the Reactor Institute Delft where research is done and students are taught. The VWS Ministry is already involved in research into and use of radiation in hospitals. Both parties are involved and will continue to be involved in the future. Mr Smaling is asking for a concrete contingency plan in the event of a nuclear accident and whether something has changed recently. There is the 2014 National Crisis Plan Radiation Incidents. There is a 2011 Response Plan National Plan Nuclear Accident Prevention and there are nuclear disaster response plans for nuclear installations, both for the Netherlands and for the border area. Those plans shall be updated regularly. If he wants to check it out, he'll know which ones they are. I have already mentioned the previous closure and what it means financially. Finally, I was asked how I, as a minister, look at possible research by the OVV into the situation in Belgium. The OVV decides independently what it's doing research on. If, because of the situation in Belgium, the Council wishes to carry out research into nuclear safety in the Netherlands, I welcome that. I'm waiting for the O.V.V.'s decision. Safety can only get better if more people look at it. In the context of continuous improvement, I have no objection to the Council doing such a thing. The letter on nationalization is due in a month. I come to the question of long-term investment policy. Since 2011, the Nuclear Energy Act states that there should be an approved decommissioning fund. Since 2011, the Minister of Finance and I have been able or not to approve investment policy. I think this is the answer to this question. It is only recently that we have played that role. I'm moving on to the outside security threat. Today you should always take a look at what you can and cannot say about it, and also at the committee meeting that preceded it, members asked for additional information on the security of the Dutch nuclear facilities. Recent statements by an American professor have led to this, among other things. He was concerned about the lack of security guards in nuclear objects, as well as the events in Paris, Brussels and the nuclear sector in Belgium, where one of the FANC's employees was being monitored. The FANC is the ANVS of Belgium. The Committee asked for a written response on security by 12 April. Of course, I will make sure that I meet the desire to receive this information before that meeting. I will not say anything about concrete security measures, but I can expand on this. Maybe I can say a few words about it now, too. I would like to inform the Chamber that Dutch nuclear installations are well protected. I come to that conclusion, because our legislation is in order and because installation security measures have been taken based on current scenarios with possible deployment of police services, such as the Special Interventions Service. The framework for security is, of course, the Dutch legislation and regulations based on nuclear security. That legislation is up-to-date and in line with international standards as formulated and adopted by the IAEA. Nuclear security measures shall be developed within the framework of that legislation. They are also in line with our laws and regulations and therefore with international standards. The package of security measures to be taken at nuclear installations has been approved by the ANVS. Like I said, it's based on current scenarios. It is, of course, being tested in the field of nuclear facilities and evaluated. Determining the current threat level is done by the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security (NCTV). Information coming from, inter alia, the General Intelligence and Security Service provides the basis for determining the level of threat in the nuclear sector. The information we have at the moment, I say: at the moment, the threat level for the Dutch nuclear sector is no reason to adjust. That is without prejudice to the fact that you have to ask yourself that question again and again at every signal you get about it. It is also important for me to know that, so that also happens through our channels towards V and J. Finally, I would like to comment on the recent reports on the desirability of armed units in our nuclear objects. Good and "trained" agreements have been made, inter alia, between the nuclear licence holder and the police forces. This is also in order to be able to deploy effectively armed security units in the security of nuclear facilities very quickly. If that commitment is needed, it will be decided immediately, as was shown by the armament we used at stations and airports, for example, when there were threats in other countries. Those procedures shall be regularly tested and evaluated in practice. At the moment, we do not have the indication that we need to position an armed unit at a nuclear facility by default. Non-positioning results from the quality of the aforementioned agreements, the standard security of the nuclear facility and the threat that does not give rise to any permanent installation. I would add that the Minister of V and J ultimately decides on this, but because it is of course equally important for me not only to look after the internal threat but also the external threat, I make sure that I am closely involved in it. After all, it is a question of safety. I will elaborate the specific questions on this in the letter of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u87	The Minister's speech was very understandable and clear, but this is still a matter of concern. I do not want to go into specific measures. Let us be glad that the threat picture is not needed at the moment, but there was that warning from the US of President Obama himself. We had another discussion today about picking up certain signals from the Ministry of V and J. According to the Minister, we are simply implementing all the standard measures, the whole standard package. Then why does President Obama warn the Netherlands? Can the Minister address this point in particular? I'm gonna keep feeling uncomfortable about that. I asked a specific question, but perhaps the Minister would like to answer it in the letter. How wide does it see the installations? Is it just Borssele or is it also Petten or is it Delft? Is this also about hospitals working with nuclear material? How broad does she look at the risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u88	I would like to answer that last question in the letter. I can say more about that now. I also know more about it, but I think we should look for the words we want to use to answer the question of what we are securing in what way. Mrs Van Veldhoven pointed out that warning. As I said myself, I think it is important to follow every signal, despite the fact that we meet the legal requirements and test, practice and evaluate the procedures. My first questions, which have now also gone to V and J, because my colleague had some other things on his mind, are: how do you look at it, what does that mean and where does such a concern come from? Once again, it may have been invested elsewhere, but I also think it is important to keep an eye on this because of my own broad responsibility. So I am not going to leave this point; I am also asking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u89	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u90	Whether America will ever tell us exactly why it gave this advice, I will have to find out. Maybe we can. Maybe we can. Maybe we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u91	We'll leave that in the middle for tonight. Good cooperation with foreign services is, of course, crucial in these areas. In the Chamber we will not go into too much detail. The Minister says that she will return to all these points in the letter, in the correct wording. That's what we're waiting for. The minister says the IEA standards have been updated. To what extent has the IEA updated these standards in response to the series of attacks that have taken place in the recent past? When was the last time the standards were updated? I can imagine that it is difficult to answer this question by heart, so if the Minister comes back to it, that's fine too. It seems important to me that we have an idea of how current the standards are, because they will not be updated every two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u92	No, they certainly won't, but the attacks aren't from the past few years either. It's been a long time since the attacks took place. For years it has been taken into account that these kinds of objects are attractive to commit an attack. Because everyone knows that the effect is very large, the way you secure it is many times greater. When the last revision has been done, I don't know, but I'm sure all kinds of things, like 9/11 and other attacks, have played a role in it for a long time. By the way, Mrs Van Veldhoven mentioned Obama, but he was a professor who made the comments. Obama has asked the NSS in a general sense for attention on the relationship between terrorism and nuclear activities. We have been leading the NSS in the Netherlands, precisely on these kinds of topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u93	The amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u94	Almost! You're indirectly chasing me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u95	You've seen that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u96	Mr Smaling of the SP has asked if I can indicate where the Netherlands is in the international ranking in the field of security and security. The IRRS mission considered in 2014 that the Netherlands is doing well in the field of nuclear safety. The IPPAS mission, also an IAEA mission, considered in 2012 that the Netherlands also scored well on security. Does the setting of the ANVS improve security? Yes, because pooling of knowledge and expertise brings benefits in the field of security. Security monitoring is concentrated at the ANVS and there is increasing attention to an integrated approach to security and nuclear safety oversight. In addition, security and safety inspectors are increasingly working together. I'm moving on to the situation in Belgium. That is one piece of paper and then I come to the amendments. No, two leaves, I'm joking a little. I understand and feel the House's interest in talking about the nuclear organizations in our neighbouring country every time. That has everything to do with them being so close to the border, which also has consequences for our country. It feels a little unnatural to draw a line in terms of responsibility, when there is no consequences. At the same time, it is so arranged that each country has its own responsibility for monitoring nuclear organisations. Is it possible for the Netherlands to take part in the decision on the start-up of the nuclear reactor after a major accident? No, the decision to launch Objective I is the exclusive competence of the FANC, the Belgian nuclear authority. It's up to him to decide in independence. The FANC has the expertise and competence to do so. I know the Chamber is very concerned. As a minister, I can also do nothing but look carefully at what is at stake, whether there is proper supervision on the other side and whether there is an alert response to the situation. In the end, however, I must also rely on the expertise of the FANC. The FANC is, of course, also subject to international supervision. It has been asked whether there is a guarantee that inspections between Belgium and the Netherlands will be carried out on a regular basis. I have made good arrangements with my Belgian colleagues. We both think it's important and that it has added value. The first experience is that things are going well. Mr Vos has also asked about this in committee in the past. In the meantime, there have been cross inspections in Doel and Borssele. I myself attended part of the inspection in Doel. Then the people who really knew went much deeper into the organization. You're not taking over an inspection, but you're walking with me. Formally, the FANC in Doel and the ANVS in Borssele form the inspection. We are going to do more cross inspections, namely in Tihange and in Petten. I am also going to look with my Belgian colleague to see if this is how we are going to shape this for the future. I think I've agreed to that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u97	We can therefore conclude that the Minister is taking this on a structural basis with the neighbours. Could it perhaps explain these agreements further in a letter prior to the debate on the safety of, among other things, power stations in Belgium? Can it also explain how municipalities and provinces are involved and how our inhabitants are informed, so that the unrest is removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u98	I'll admit the structural variants anyway. We both think it's important to learn from each other. I will also show that in the letter. I believe that I have already mentioned this in a letter to the Chamber before. I also informed the Chamber about the information. We have agreed on how to improve and harmonise information. For example, Belgium shows incidents at a different level than the Netherlands. Very small incidents that have no effect on nuclear safety are reported as incidents. One could say that it is a good thing to report everything, but at the same time it can cause the necessary unrest, which may not be necessary at all. We are looking at how we can harmonise this more, how we can do it, how we can ensure that it is with the municipalities and stakeholders so quickly. I've sent a letter to the Chamber about that before. When we get the update the Chamber asked for, we'll see what news we can report on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u99	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I am curious to see how she looks at the Dik-Faber amendment, because Mrs Dik-Faber wants all incidents to be reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u100	We are just about to start discussing the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u101	We are indeed about to begin, but not after I have answered Mrs Dik-Faber's question as to whether the Euratom Directive on nuclear safety has a lower limit. The Directive has no specific lower limit. For example, safety targets are set in the directive. A nuclear installation must have several safety systems and safety must be continuously improved. There is no lower limit included. Continuous improvement is a more attractive variant than you say: that's okay. I come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u102	No, because Mrs Dik-Faber has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u103	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I do not want to delay the debate unnecessarily. I'd love to see that continuous improvement, but there's got to be a minimum level of security somewhere. I mean, that deal has to be made, doesn't it? I would be very concerned if there was no such agreement, especially after what happened in Japan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u104	The question is what Mrs Dik-Faber means by a minimum level of safety, because the directive simply states what you have to do to ensure safety and what to do when safety is at stake. Then what is the lower limit, that it may leak a little bit or a little bit more? I think the lower limit is that there should be no risk. The discussion about Goal last night was closed over there, and it was about a pump that didn't work properly. Based on this, the reactor was immediately shut down. It is true that a spare pump can enter into operation, but you still have to find out what caused it. After all, you don't want to sit alone on the spare pump. When a risk occurs, all precautions shall be taken. I'm also looking a little bit for what's a lower limit, for when we do like something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u105	Of course, the most important thing is that all nuclear power stations are safe. I think it is a good thing that I am going to take another good look at this directive and that I will go into this more specifically in the general discussions that we still have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u106	I'd like that. If Mrs Dik-Faber would like to share with me earlier what the lower limit might be, I would also like to hear it. We might be able to take a look at it. I come to the amendments: six in total. I shall begin with the Dik-Faber/Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 9. The scope of the amendment is an annual reporting obligation for licence holders of a nuclear reactor, together with a decommissioning fund as financial security given by the Finance Ministers and I and M. This concerns the extent of the financial guarantee provided for the coverage rates. The amendment states that if, in the opinion of the Finance and Infrastructure and Environment Ministers, there is a deficit for the second consecutive year, they request the authorisation holder to submit an application for approval of the updated financial security within six months. There is now a five-year update. The Minister of Finance and I believe that every year the adjustment does not solve anything and also gives some sort of false certainty. We believe that once every five years updating is enough. This also does not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on both the public authorities and the holder of the authorisation. The financial security is thus updated and re-approved every five years. The government looks at the long-term return. As far as I am concerned, the proposed amendment offers little extra certainty. These are long-term investments and may lead to short-term thinking among licence holders and to taking greater risks with investments than would be desirable. The conclusion is that I do not recommend the amendment. The amendment in part No. Mrs Dik-Faber's intention is to ensure that the Dutch authorities ensure that information is provided to the Dutch population in an appropriate manner and in any case by electronic means, i.e. in a generally accessible manner, on unusual events, other than accidents involving nuclear installations, and that available information is provided on similar establishments in the vicinity of the Netherlands. The amendment therefore concerns the provision of information by the ANVS on unusual events, other than accidents, including around nuclear power stations. This task is already being carried out by the ANVS in the annual report on unusual events in nuclear facilities in the Netherlands. This amendment also lays down the general information function of the ANVS in this area. There is, however, an extension: information about similar foreign establishments in the vicinity of the Netherlands. The applicant has already indicated that this can only be about information disclosed abroad. I therefore see this amendment as a support for policy. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 12 members of Dik-Faber and Van Veldhoven are responsible for monitoring the safety of establishments located abroad in the vicinity of the Netherlands. I would advise against this amendment. I fully understand where this amendment comes from: the unrest that has arisen in that region. For nuclear facilities, the ANVS already has the task of cooperating with similar authorities, such as with the FANC in Belgium. This task follows from the Euratom directives on nuclear safety. With Belgium and Germany and in the Benelux context, agreements have long been laid down in the so-called Memoranda of Understanding, the MoUs. This amendment goes further: monitoring foreign establishments. Monitoring installations in addition to existing cooperation arrangements is a step too far, as this is a task that belongs to the authority of the country itself. If there is insufficient monitoring, I will, of course, discuss this with my colleague from the other country, but if we are dealing with a law in the Netherlands, I cannot decide to start monitoring the Belgians from now on. On the other hand, I hope that they will not do so in the parliamentary debates on laws that are taking place with them. I therefore reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u107	I should like to return to the amendment on item No. 11? You said'supporting policy', but you can also accept the amendment. This has not been the case since the new regime, which already existed in accordance with Article 100.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u108	Okay, in that case, I'll take it from here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u109	Does any of the Members object to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u110	I'd like to think about this, Mr. Chairman. I want a vote on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u111	Then it will remain as it was with this amendment: it will remain 'judge the Chamber' and there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u112	I come to the amendment to item No. 13 by Mrs Van Tongeren. I see that it is not present now, but it is possible; Members of parliament can apparently also direct the government at a distance. The amendment aims to make the approval of the financial security relating to the costs of decommissioning a nuclear reactor a requirement for the financial efficiency to be borne by the licence holder. The approval may also include a requirement requiring the holder of the authorisation to adjust the nature of the security lodged. The amendment introduces a requirement for the approval of the financial security for the costs of decommissioning a nuclear reactor. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that licence holders have a defensive investment policy. However, it is explicitly the responsibility of the holder of the authorisation to ensure that, ultimately, at the time of decommissioning, sufficient resources are available to finance that decommissioning. By including this rule, the government is drawing this responsibility, and thus the risk to the deficit and also the risk to the taxpayer, closer to itself, and that is undesirable. Of course, this does not mean that I, together with my colleague from Finance, am closely monitoring the current situation with the licence holders concerned. My conclusion is that I do not recommend the amendment. Whether the remote control has had an effect, we will know after the votes. Finally, I come to the amendment on item No. 14 of the member Van Veldhoven, who aims to evaluate the functioning of the ANVS every two years instead of every five years, which would mean that the first evaluation would only take place in 2022. I think that's a little late, so I decided to evaluate in 2018. The ANVS has worked as a Zbo for a full year. In addition, the IAEA will return with a mission to the Netherlands in 2018. We just talked about that. The results of this mission may be taken into account in the evaluation. That means it's a reverse variant. We can discuss that further. In practice, a good evaluation takes more than six months. The results have yet to be implemented. An evaluation every two years means a disproportionate burden on the organisation. I would prefer that capacity to be used to monitor security. So I will quickly arrange an evaluation for the Chamber, but I do not recommend the amendment as it has now been designed. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u113	I would very much like to come back to the amendment on item No. 12 on peer monitoring that has been discouraged by the Minister. Now it is true that joint inspections are currently taking place, where in the case of Borssele the inspection really lies with the Netherlands and Belgium is watching, and vice versa. That is a situation on which agreements have been made. Can the Minister imagine that we are legally anchoring these kinds of peer inspections? Or isn't that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u114	I do not think it is necessary, because both Minister Jambon and myself, as well as the Germans and the French, the French have already said with the Belgians that we want to carry out this type of peer review. We with the Belgians, because that is relevant to us, and also the French and the Germans with the Belgians. We do, we agreed, so we are already putting that into practice. If you want legislation, you will always have to regulate it at European level. We cannot now say that we are going to regulate this unilaterally for all the other countries. But I wouldn't think it was necessary. I would like to deal with this only if it appears that nothing is being done about it or that there is a hole in it. In addition, each country has its own supervisory organisation and on top of that there is international supervision of these monitoring organisations. So there's some sort of overall monitoring in that too. It's a long story, but as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u115	Let me take this back to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u116	I'll come back to the evaluation. I also understand the fact that the Minister says: should we really start evaluating every two years until the end of time? On the other hand, I would like to take the Minister into consideration that we are putting something new here. The question is whether, after an evaluation, you wait another five years immediately, that is not the other extreme. I would like to test the Minister: how about I change the amendment by saying twice every two years and then five years, something in that direction, so that we continue to go along with this organisation for a while? And once the organization is in place, of course, it can be evaluated every five years. I would like to hear from the Minister whether a further adjustment of the amendment in this direction, in cooperation with her, is also an interesting route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u117	Are we still negotiating on the late night?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u118	I just don't want to give the officials any unnecessary work. If the Minister says that she does not see any point in this either, then I would like to leave Bureau Legislation alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u119	If we are negotiating then perhaps I would like to do it the other way around. I have now promised to do the evaluation after two years. The law says five years, but I'm gonna do it after two years anyway. I can imagine that if the Chamber sees that evaluation in two years' time, it will say in a majority that it wants another evaluation in two years' time. I can imagine that we can then simply decide to do so. After all, we can. The law says five years, but that doesn't mean you can't do it before. It also depends on the desire that exists at the time and on its usefulness and necessity. Perhaps it is also linked to certain deadlines for carrying out an evaluation. I think that's how the Chamber always keeps its finger on the wrist. You can always ask for evaluations. I think you'd like to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u120	If that's necessary, of course we will. I will think about the Minister's words, but once it is laid down by law that it is every five years, it is more difficult to bring that forward. If an organisation knows that it is now being done twice every two years, because we are in a start-up phase, and that it happens every five years afterwards, we may have to avoid looking back into the legal history in two years' time to find out exactly what it was. I see the Minister is still thinking about it. I'll think about it, too. Then we will see before the votes on Tuesday where we have come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u121	I think it's been five years in the law. I promised for two years because the Chamber asked for it. I think the Chamber is always the last to be discussed. In this case, I would say that it should not be standardized. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u122	That sounds like a pretty good last word to me. I think I've tasted that there's no need for a second term. I see that's not right. Mrs Van Veldhoven has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u123	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief. On two points, I would like to clarify exactly what we discussed in the debate. That's why I have two motions. I will leave it at that in terms of input. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister very much for the answers and for her willingness to send further information on a number of matters to the Chamber prior to the general consultation. The first motion concerns a number of points on which information is still lacking, but we do need that information in order to be able to assess the overall functioning of this legislative proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no information necessary for the proper judgment of the Authority for Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection (ANVS) as regards supervision, capacity and budget and cooperation arrangements with other services/institutions;]] [[Whereas an inadequate interpretation of these aspects may pose a potential risk to the functioning of the ANSS and hence to the nuclear safety of the Netherlands;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible of the completion of these aspects before the present legislative amendment enters into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34219-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u124	Where I am talking about capacity and budget, all this has to do with the comments I have made on the vision of supervision and the amount of tasks that will be carried out by the ANVS. The second motion also deals with the situation of our neighbours and the way in which we work with our neighbours. I heard the minister say we're working with MoU's. A number of things have already been laid down. I would actually like to add something to that, namely that the Netherlands can take part in deciding on a moment of restart when a central unexpected event has been closed as a result of an incident. I know that there are all kinds of good agreements about regular inspections, but it is, of course, a moment when something suddenly happens. Then you have to make sure you can watch it before it starts again. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a great deal of unrest among the residents of Dutch border municipalities about several incidents surrounding Belgian nuclear power plants in the vicinity of these municipalities;]] [[considers that the Dutch authorities should be actively involved in the decision to restart nuclear installations, such as nuclear power plants, following a major incident, for example by carrying out joint inspections;]] [[considers that the Dutch Government should send a clear signal, in particular to the inhabitants of the said municipalities, that it is doing the best it can to ensure nuclear safety;]] [[calls on the Government, with our neighbouring countries, to conclude declarations of intent (Memoranda of Understanding), which lays down detailed cooperation agreements in black and white and informs the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34219-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u125	This has been explicitly discussed by a large number of Members. An amendment has even been tabled on this subject. So I thought it was very much in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u126	I'll leave it at that. I'm not suspending, so we'll proceed immediately. The Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u127	Mr. Chairman. I have listened carefully, so although I have not yet received the formal texts of the motions, I can answer immediately. The first motion states that the bill on the ANVS can not enter into force until there is information on the capacity and budget. However, I would very much like to be able to formally establish the ANVS. I have already promised the Chamber that we will carry out further research into the FTEs currently in existence and whether there is a need for additional funding. If so, we will take care of that in the 2017 budget. In that respect, I would find it really undesirable if the Chamber did not allow this ANVS proposal to enter into force until then. The sooner this power is formal, the better we have it regulated. I therefore advise against the motion on that point. In substance, Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that I am going to do what she has asked for, namely to deliver capacity. The second motion is about deciding on a reboot. In my view, I have just been ready to do so in the case of the amendment. I understand very well where the need comes from, but it simply does not belong to the powers of the ANVS. That authority does not have the power to decide on the restart. That is really up to the FANC, the Belgian organisation. It would also bear witness to a lack of trust if you said you wanted to do it as another country. This is without prejudice to the fact that, as soon as there is a closure or a restart, we shall be immediately informed by the FANC. The ANVS is therefore always aware of all ins and outs. If we were really worried, we'd really be ringing the bell there. Deciding on a restart is not possible. I therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u128	Perhaps it is not advisable that the Minister has not yet seen the exact text of the motion. I was very aware that the ANVS does not have that capacity. The Minister has also made clear why she believes that this cannot be unilaterally laid down in the law. I can understand that. However, the motion calls for consideration to be given to the possibility of reaching an agreement with neighbouring countries in the MoUs. I don't want to anticipate. We cannot, of course, unilaterally determine such a thing and do not grant it to us. However, I would like the Minister to make such an agreement with her colleagues. That's the request in the motion. Does the Minister reach a different verdict when she sees the motion that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u129	No. I hear what you're saying. The motion states "that the Dutch authorities should be actively involved." It then reads "the decision to draw up nuclear installations such as nuclear power plants." Being actively involved, so being actively informed about both closing and starting is very important to me, but in the decision? Imagine, on the other hand, that we would be dependent on the FANC for our decision, because that would have to take part in deciding on a restart of Borssele after a closure. Then an organization for which I have no responsibility in any way would share responsibility for such a decision. I would consider that a particularly undesirable construction. The other way around, I wouldn't want to put a construction like that with my neighbors. I wouldn't even ask for it, because that's embarrassing my neighbors. I think it is particularly important that they do everything in their power to ensure safety. The FANC is also monitoring this and the FANC is monitored internationally again. They'll keep us informed. Making decisions is a step too far, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u130	I am not referring in the motion to a veto from the Netherlands. I do not want to say that if the Netherlands were to have serious concerns about a restart, Belgium would not be able to start up again. I am asking the Minister to make working arrangements on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u131	Mrs Van Veldhoven, the Minister has denied the motion twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u132	Yes, but there is uncertainty as to what the intention of the motion is, and that is why I am happy to explain it to her. So it doesn't say that the Netherlands should have a veto. It may be that the Minister and I differ on that point, but if so, I want to make sure that we disagree on the intention and not on the perceived intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u133	Once again, I simply read in the recitals that the Dutch authorities must be actively involved in the decision to restart nuclear installations such as nuclear power plants. That seems clear to me. Then the request is much more general. It states that I must conclude a declaration of intent in which far-reaching cooperation agreements are blacked out. We also have cooperation agreements in MoUs, but if I want to combine the consideration and the request, then I am very anxious that this is meant to be so. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Furthermore, Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that we already have MoUs, that we have greatly improved cooperation over the past period and that it is also my wish and ambition to improve them further in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u134	We'll see about it in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u135	We'll see it at the vote, sure. I also had a brief question about the first motion that the Minister has not recommended. It has indicated that it will come back to the budget in part. Can the Minister also indicate when she will send this other information to the Chamber? If it is sent to the Chamber within the same time limit, I can hold the motion. This motion was mainly intended as a stick behind the door, so that this important information does not reach the Chamber in a year or so. So if the Minister says: on all these points, I will come back to the Chamber around the budget, then we will know when to expect it, and then I will be able to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u136	I'm just gonna see what's listed on all these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u137	Analysis of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u138	Not all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u139	Capacity and budget. The capacity is now being portrayed, and I think I have also said in the debate that we have an idea of this before the summer. If you then need a budget for this, you can only come back to that when the 2017 budget is being discussed. The cooperation agreements with other services and institutions must also be available for the same period and the supervisory vision, which is the only thing I do not remember when it is ready. Is it ready for the summer, too? I'm gonna check on my associates. Yeah, I see nodding in the back of the benches. Sometimes it's good to let the people in the back of the benches advise you. That all comes back in that same period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u140	Then I can withdraw that motion, because it concerned the entry into force of the bill. With this commitment from the Minister, I trust that the Chamber will receive that information in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u141	Since the Van Veldhoven/Dik-Faber motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u142	I think so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-17.u143	I would like to thank the Minister very much for her presence and the answers she has given. We will be voting on this next Tuesday.
