ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The first inflow rates following the introduction of the loan system are known. We knew this would happen. We've been warning about it since 2012. In the Slob motion adopted (33410, No. 20) was already asked to examine first what the effects of the loan system would be before we introduced it. I get pissed off when I see that for financial reasons young people do not want to study. In the Netherlands, we have always fought for equal opportunities in education. Anyone can study, if he or she has talent, regardless of the parents' income. Young people from vulnerable environments, mbo-streamers to HBO: when the loan system was introduced, it was warned that these groups would suffer. For the second time within a week we see that there is a danger of a division. The inspection indicates that underprivileged children are already lagging behind. She warns of a division in primary and secondary education. And now we see that in higher education too, as a result of the loan system, children of parents who have less salary or who have lower education are dropping out. This loan system was introduced by the coalition, with the help of D66 and GroenLinks, and now we are learning the hard lessons from practice. This system is economics and individualism. If the future of our children is really worth something to us, shouldn't all the alarm bells go off with these clear figures? The Minister now has the figures. That is why my question is: is the Minister going to do what or does she accept this information? Does she accept that mbo's flowing less to HBO? Does she accept that vulnerable young people are going to study less? Does it accept that young people with disabilities and chronically ill have suffered a severe financial loss? Does this PvdA Minister accept that this loan system contributes to a division in our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Bruins that our education must offer equal opportunities to all, including those who are lagging behind and who are vulnerable. That is also what I stand for as Minister of Education; for the whole of education. If there are differences in primary and secondary education, as we saw in the inspection report, then they can continue to work in higher education. We have introduced a major change in the system, with which we have achieved a billion additional revenues, precisely in order to invest in additional teachers, in improving the transition from MBO to HBO and in vulnerable groups. We know that, at least temporarily, these effects are also visible. The effects we've predicted, we're seeing now. I always said there could be a temporary dip. The figures I see now also indicate a temporary dip. But I would add that I am extremely alert to the consequences that may arise for certain groups. Mr Bruins refers to the MBOs. Let us note that we already invest extra to better guide MBO students to HBO, for example by getting them acquainted with HBO during MBO training, by organising a better study check and by organising other forms of education, for example part-time education. We see that this education is also increasing. We also see that the number of dropouts in the first year is decreasing in this particular group. This was also an important objective in improving higher education. In short, we are doing everything we can to improve the connection for this group. I find it a problem when students with disabilities see less opportunities to study, because they too are entitled to higher professional or university education. I will once again call upon the examination students in secondary education in a letter to discuss their limitations during the study interview. In the monitor we see that institutions where that happens also take action. That works well for this group. I go in consultation with the institutions, students and study deans to see if there is more possible and where the problems are; financially or otherwise. So I admit, and that was my response to the Slob motion at the time, that I am alert, but I want to invest in higher education, precisely to provide everyone, of whatever origin, with the best education that is possible and conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	I thank the Minister for confirming that we in the Netherlands want equal opportunities for everyone, so that it is about your talent and not about the parents or the neighborhood where you come from. But we've done enough monitoring now. We know what's going on. The numbers are clear. You cannot hide behind a long-term perspective, structural effects or a temporary dip. The effects are expected, the Minister says. But you don't want this, do you? Look at the facts about the three most vulnerable groups. The differences between students with and without an additional scholarship have increased since the introduction of the loan system. The increase in the supplementary grant did not fully compensate for the loss of the basic grant. It is nice that the Minister also has concerns about the out-of-town students with a disability or chronic illness, but what is she going to do in concrete terms? Will the Minister reconsider taking measures for students with disabilities in line with the amendment that was rejected at the time? Because for residents with disabilities, it soon saves more than €2,000 a year compared to the old system. Is the Minister prepared not only to smear us with words, but also to take concrete action for these vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Yes, I am. But I'm nudging the fallout and that fewer students would go to college. We also see that there are students who have to do with the bow wave effect, who haven't taken an intermediate year before. We are dealing with demands that have been deliberately tightened up with the Chamber, for example in the case of pabo-training. We are also dealing with demographic developments, which have led to fewer MBO students moving to HBO. At the same time, I say to you that I am very, very, very committed to equal opportunities in education. This applies to primary education. That's why we're doing something about the Cito test. That goes for the MBO. That's why there's going to be a right of admission. The same applies to higher education. That is why we are actually investing in the improvement of MBO and HBO. Where necessary, I will do the same for chronically ill and disabled people. So I say again: I am going to have a conversation to see more precisely where improvements are possible. One of them I already know: the conversation about what students need starts with the study interview. I would also like to point out that this is necessary to communicate once again that the supplementary grant has been increased and that for home-living students the present supplementary grant is higher than it used to be. In short, in this respect too, I will ensure that higher education remains accessible. If I have serious signals that there will be structural changes that are undesirable, I will say again that I will not hesitate to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	I accept that we are dealing with a complex reality and that there are many pluses and minuses. But, in the end, we cannot ignore the fact that one group is the most vulnerable and that in fact, more than €2,000 has gone down: the young people with a disability or chronic illness. Can the Minister promise that, as from the next academic year, only students with a disability or chronic illness who are expatriated will be able to receive a subsidy on the cost of study compared to the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	No, I can't promise that, because that would only be one way to solve the problem of equal opportunities. I was just saying that we know that it is also important for better guidance to take place. We're already working on that. I want to look together with the institutions and the students at what else is possible. There is then, for example, a need for more funds from the profiling fund. So there are several roads to Rome. We need to find out that the odds for all students and incoming students are equal. I agree with Mr Bruins on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	I call on the Minister to take concrete, rapid action, because we cannot have a dip in this country. We must continue with the knowledge-based economy. Our young people should be able to study. So please, Minister, take action quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	Equal opportunities in education is a goal no one can disagree with. However, we see in practice that the division in education is actually already there. Think of pupils from the disadvantaged regions. Think about the school counseling. I can go on like this for a while. Yesterday, the first monitor of the loan system, which has become a system of debt, showed that the number of registrations of children of low-skilled parents has decreased.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have three specific questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	Well, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	I'm gonna try to do it in one sentence. Why do we continue with the division in education? Why are we continuing with the debt system? Why is the amount of education deficit policy adjusted downwards by 50 million, while inequality is increasing? If we want equal opportunities in education, shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Kuzu draws his conclusion too quickly. Students with lower-educated parents are not hit harder. However, there are also students among them who have not chosen for an intermediate year. In addition, this group is also concerned that students are more reluctant to take on debts. We also know this from earlier research by the SCP, which we discussed extensively during the treatment of the Higher Education Advances Act. We are taking action in these areas. At the same time, Mr Kuzu may speak of a slight increase in the number of immigrant students in HBO, and that of the number of MBOs passing through the fallout in the first year. The number of part-time students who are often students who later go to higher education has also increased. In short: the image is not only negative, it is an image in change. And that's not so weird when you take big measures. In doing so, there is considerable investment, I say again, because you must have it from a knowledge society. Everyone must be able to participate in this, and that is what my policy remains focused on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	What we've been afraid of for years is happening now. It is precisely those young people who do not go to higher education who are now affected. Think of young people who want to move from MBO to HBO, young people who come from a socio-economically somewhat lower class, young people with disabilities. The Minister is asking for serious investigation. That's what I think is now. I don't know how much more serious it has to be. I have a specific question. The Minister indicated that she would look at the profiling fund for young people with disabilities. That fund must be paid by the universities. So she's actually billing the universities. Is this Minister prepared to give extra money to universities and colleges for the profiling fund so that these young people can actually be met?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	I have just indicated that I want to look at what is possible with the universities and colleges, with the students, and especially with the student deans who have a lot of contact with the students with disabilities. They have said to me that there is also a great deal of improvement in the adaptation of schedules and facilities and in making them negotiable in good time. That's one solution. Doing something about the profiling fund is another solution. I'm gonna talk to everyone about that first, see what's desirable and what it takes. Then I'll report to the Chamber on the measures I'm taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	The CDA has always warned against the consequences of this loan system. The minister said they were ghost stories, and that there was scare-making. In the meantime, we know that 9% fewer young people have entered HBO, higher education, where this emancipation function is so acute. I ask this Minister whether she is prepared to take action next year so that this influx will not be so much a disappointment. I no longer want to see disabled people, MBOs and low-income people in particular not going to higher education. That must be the lesson, after last week's report from the education inspector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	I have to correct Mr Rog, because there is not just 9%. That percentage is a sum of a number of causes. That's what I reported to the Chamber earlier in February. It's a combination of what we call the "bow wave effect" that is caused by students who didn't take an intermediate year and continued studying earlier, and by students who are taking an intermediate year and other factors. It is also a result of changes that we have deliberately introduced, such as stricter requirements for the pabo. In addition, it is a result of demographic changes. That remains a percentage that is inexplicable, and one might wonder if it is the study advance. That percentage corresponds to what we learned earlier from the Central Planning Bureau and CHEPS. We have seen this effect in other countries too, and there it is a temporary dip. If it's not a temporary dip, I'll take action. If we see that it affects specific groups of students where that is undesirable, I will also take measures. But the image I'm seeing right now is no different than what we've seen before. Once again, this includes a number of very positive developments, which I want to continue to strengthen. Where there are problems, we will tackle them, but we will not go back, because the study advance fits with this time and also provides the means to invest structurally and substantially in better higher education, from which all students, including the students of vulnerable groups, can benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	There are fewer students going to study through the loan system and it is shameless as the minister is trying to trivialize it now. It is unbelievable that GroenLinks and D66 have made this possible. And now my point. The Minister doesn't mind at all. Two years ago, she wrote an article in which she said: Hbos, you shouldn't go on learning, you should go on working instead of studying. Does the Minister recognise that she is not a minister of education but a minister of division?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	I would ask Mr Van Dijk to take a good look at my quotes, because I never said that MBOs should not continue to learn. MBOs who can and want to do so must always be able to learn, but I note that there are also MBOs who have to go to the labour market, and this is also evident from the monitor that, especially in times of economic attraction, choose to go to the labour market. I want them to learn another way. That's why I'm introducing the master companion trajectories for MBOs. That's why I'm encouraging part-time education for MBOs. That is why we have the two-year courses, the associate degrees, which are often followed by mbo's who have worked for a few years and then want to do an HBO course. In this way, I am also doing everything I can for this group to promote the opportunities for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	The report, the monitor is also about a number of other very important things, such as dropout, making a conscious choice of study and the percentage of students gaining international experience. The study drop-out after the first year has fallen, but is still 32%. The Minister writes that 39,000 students quit their studies in the academic year 2014-2015. With regard to the choice of study, the percentage has increased. So more students now make a conscious choice of study. Both are very positive developments, but both need to be much better. What does the Minister intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	We have recently discussed this within the framework of the Strategic Agenda, in which I have also indicated how we are going to spend the resources of the study advance. I think it is of the utmost importance to reduce, in particular, the drop-out in higher education. The number of around 40,000 is indeed enormous. First of all, it is extremely frustrating for a student who thinks of starting an education and coming home from a cold carnival because the training is not in line with expectations or because the training is too difficult. Then we come back to MBOs who have these experiences. So more trial studies, more collaboration between MBO and HBO. That is what we are doing now, for example, with flow dials. You can start getting used to what it's like at a high school. We also want to strengthen this regionally. There are some good examples that we want to share more. In short, I think that this is the way to ensure that the drop-out is reduced and that the choice of study can be further improved in the future, with the study guide that Mr Duisenberg often talks about. That's what I'm gonna do.
