ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week a football journalist made a number of statements on the television programme Football Inside; he often does. This time it was about problems at football clubs that would have been caused by a large amount of Moroccan players at those clubs. I was also asked to respond to those statements. Then I thought: well, knowing Johan Derksen's statements, I can keep going, so forget it. However, these statements were made great when both the Minister of VWS and the Prime Minister responded from the VVD Summit. To my great surprise, the VWS minister not only responded to this, but also agreed with Johan Derksen: Moroccans are a problem. The Prime Minister tried to repair this statement the next day by saying that no Moroccan football children would be refused. Are these the two faces of the VVD that we are going to see in the coming year towards the election? What purpose did the Minister serve with her response? What's the cabinet position? I also have a practical question: what if a child with a Moroccan background returns to a football club? So we're gonna say, "I'm sorry, but you're a problem?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I did indeed respond to those statements, but I also immediately added that the refusal of children is of course not a matter of course and that refusing children on their origin is, in any case, pure discrimination. What, however, is going on? In the Netherlands, millions of people are working on football every weekend. There's a lot of emotion in soccer. You want to win, you want to be faster than the other and something goes wrong. Due to increasing misconduct on and along the fields, we started the programme Towards a safer sports climate in 2011. In short, the Ministry of Security and Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the sports associations look at this: who is not actually involved? How we can ensure that football can remain a fun game and a fun sport. Over the past five years, we have taken a lot of measures, organised and invested training. We also see a decrease in the number of reports, but the number is still quite high. Then came Mr Derksen's statement about football clubs that break down in specific neighbourhoods where many people with Moroccan backgrounds live, about self-selection and about the departure or failure to register players at those clubs. My reaction was that Derksen finds a real problem, but the question is, of course, what are you going to do about it next? After all, it is of little use only to observe the problem. I have indicated that you cannot deny that incidents at certain clubs occur much more often than in others, but that it is about the solutions; that is also a quote from myself. There are football clubs in the Netherlands that are weak in every respect and therefore vulnerable. Those football clubs have weak governments with little knowledge, are in weak neighbourhoods and do not know how to manage a good educational policy at that club and how to solve the problems that play together in such a club. Let us be very honest: society and sport are two interlocking things. What happens in society also happens in sport and vice versa. The sport can't solve that all on its own. I have already indicated that I am extending the programme to a safer sports environment for two years and that it is specifically focused on weak clubs. Does this only apply to clubs with Moroccan members? No. Are clubs with many Moroccan Dutch often risky clubs? Yes. That too is something to be seen. Is that because of their ethnicity? I am not aware that there are a lot of problems with football clubs in Morocco, but you can see that in those clubs all kinds of things are playing together: problems that play in a neighbourhood and problems that the children who go to the football clubs already have. All these problems are piling up. We must not only mention these problems, we can all solve them, but we can also solve them. It's my job to solve those problems. I've said what I need to say. I also said that we are not supposed to say here in the Netherlands: Jansen can come here, but if you happen to be called "Erkan," you can't come. That's not how we're gonna do it. That is discrimination, and that is not the solution either. The solution is to guide those clubs and get stronger boards. I'm glad we can see that, too. There are clubs that come out of here. Those are our examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister states that she is working in all possible ways to address problems with players and football clubs. A safe sports environment is very important, but the interesting thing is that the Minister did not say that at first when she was asked to do so. She said: 'Mr Derksen is right'. The Minister does say that she is dealing with these problems and those solutions, but is it not much better to say that she recognizes this as a real problem, to draw attention immediately to the suggestion that this would concern one particular group? The Minister is throwing away a group, or was that the intention? Misbehaviour is not limited to Dutch-Moroccan footballers. D66 has often called for attention to violence on and around the field, for example when a puppet by Kenneth Vermeer was hanged in the football stadium or when there were racist choirs in the ADO stadium. Where was the Minister at the time with her comments? Why didn't we hear her then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	I responded to that, too, but it got less attention. If a question is asked to me, I am generally inclined to answer it. Let Mrs. Dijkstra check the videos, because I understand they're still on the Internet. I said it was a real problem. I am also getting signals about this after that statement and it is not least from the Moroccan community itself. Mothers who are doing very well with their children and are very well accompanying them in football said to me: do something about it, because my child suffers from it. There's no point in looking away. We have to fix it. In all the videos, Mrs Dijkstra can see that I have said that I recognise the problem. It is not enough for me to just signal it, because it is the solution that is at stake. So that's what we're doing incredibly hard. I just extended the program for two years. I also just indicated that we are focusing on the weaker clubs. At a number of clubs, the leak seems to come out a little bit. We have to use those clubs as vehicles to help other clubs. There's no point in looking away. It makes sense to take signals seriously and see how we can solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	I hear the Minister, but I must honestly say that it is still not clear to me why she has so committed herself to Mr Derksen's right, because with that she is throwing away a group. I am very sorry that this has happened and that the Minister has not responded immediately to the approach and to the solutions to the problem. It is clear that there is a problem, but it is not clear to me what purpose the Minister served to put it down in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	If I get signals that I know are real and that they're not on their own, I don't think I can say I don't recognize them at all. After all, it is not a single signal from one person, who calls for something. I have said that there is a real problem, but I have always said that it must be the solution. We shouldn't ignore the problem. We must build this society together and make it a success. If there are neighborhoods that are weak in different ways, you can also see that in the football clubs. There are no cricket clubs in those neighborhoods. We have to try to reverse the problems together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	The Minister was just talking very carefully and in the most murky language around it, so let me put it very sharply. Does the Minister see a Moroccan problem in amateur football or is the director of amateur football of the KNVB right, who said that what Mr Derksen said is not right at all? What is it? One or the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	I said that Mr Derksen's identification of the problems was real. So I also think you shouldn't look away from that, but you should see how you're going to solve the problem. Does it have anything to do with ethnicity? No, that is far too easy and there would also be big problems in Morocco. Does it have anything to do with neighborhoods where a lot of problems come together, which you also see in the clubs? Yeah, you gotta be real about that. We've been watching this happen for a while. We need to help these clubs with all our power, and we need to strengthen the boards. We also need to stimulate certain behavior, such as giving a hand before and after the game. That sounds like a small thing, but it means you have respect for your opponent. We need to build the whole thing up, and we need to start with the basics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	Discrimination in our society is a really tough subject. On second thought, was it wise for the Minister to say immediately after Mr Derksen's statements that clubs are going to hell because they are in neighbourhoods where many Moroccan families live that he found a real problem? Wouldn't it have been much wiser if she had discussed behavior directly instead of ethnicity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	If you get incredibly many reports of things going wrong at risk football clubs in weak neighborhoods, you can say that there is no problem, but I don't think that's the solution. They're guys who have problems with graduation and who have trouble staying in line at the clubs. Why shouldn't you name those problems? That's not really weird, is it? We must find a common solution to these problems. That's what I wanted to say. I don't want to look away, I want us to fix this. That was also my reaction to Derksen's statements. There's a problem. That's what I said. Mrs Van Tongeren may doubt that, but I said that. Check it out, because the video is still on the website of the NOS. There's a problem, and it's my job to fix it. And we're not gonna solve it, I told you, by saying there's no more Moroccan kids coming to the club. That would be discrimination. We're not going on that road, but you have to see the problems and tackle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would like to return to the essence of Minister Schippers' statement. I praise her when she says she wants to solve problems, but in order to solve a problem, you need to be able to interpret it properly. That is the essence of the problem. If Mr Derksen indicates in a football programme that it happens when Moroccan boys get the upper hand at a football club, this minister says that there is a real problem. That is the essence of the statements made by Minister Schippers in this case. I would like to ask the Minister if she still supports that ruling. Johan Derksen said it was Moroccan boys who got the upper hand. Is that a real problem in our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	The problem is that there is self-selection as a result and other boys are no longer members. That is a real problem. You can see that that's what makes clubs fall into a negative spiral. We shouldn't let that happen. We should not ignore that problem, but name it and find solutions to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	I miss the remark made by the KNVB. The KNVB represents 1 million footballers from this country, including myself, and says that what the minister says is complete nonsense and that it is not based on anything. It hasn't been investigated either, and yet the Minister makes that statement. Will she respond to that reaction of the KNVB?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	I don't quite understand that reaction. Look at what this has unleashed and how massively and from all sides people have approached me. Many say that it is a good thing that we are tackling this and that solutions are being found. I also get those comments from the group itself. After all, they have their children at these clubs and they want their children to be able to play football without getting that stigma. The children who want to play football in a fun way suffer from where things go wrong. It doesn't just go wrong because of the team. I think that's way too close. It also goes wrong because the board of such a club is powerless to solve the problems. So we also have to make sure that we strengthen the governance, that we strengthen the educational environment at the club. That's exactly what I'm doing with a safer sports climate. I just want reinforcements from those clubs to make sure they pull their legs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	Your second question, Mr Van Dekken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think that's crazy. The Minister explains how the whole process towards a safer sports environment is shaped and contented, but the most important partner throughout the whole process is the KNVB, which the Minister is now arguing with. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	I don't argue with the KNVB; I just don't intend to ignore signals that clearly enter in large numbers. Your Chamber often talks about her getting signals from one or the other. These signals can't be ignored. I think there's a serious problem. We're already working on the safe sports climate. It's not like we're just waking up, but we're not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	I am glad that this minister, following the Prime Minister's example, says: we are not looking at origin, we are looking at what people do; Moroccan Dutch are also Dutch. I also hear the Minister naming specific problems. For example, she talks about parallel structures, ghetto formation in separate neighborhoods and neighbourhoods, where there is a street culture, which you can also see on the football club. I also hear the Minister say that she is going to look for solutions. What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms with the KNVB and at which clubs? What is this cabinet finally going to do against the growing segregation and apartheid in our neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	We have deployed the programme towards a safer sports environment, in which we have included all kinds of actions to strengthen clubs where problems exist. We have done so by offering courses, by offering reinforcement, by ensuring that there is a time-out, so that it does not get out of hand on the field. When it gets out of hand on the field, it also gets out of hand around the field. I would therefore like to mention time-out procedures and the tightening up of disciplinary law. That programme was over and I decided at all before all this came up for discussion to continue that programme for another two years, with a special focus on those weak clubs. We now see that through the support with that program a number of clubs are on the right track, finding reinforcements and getting a better governance culture. It is true that there are many people on the board of a Laren hockey club who are used to driving, who have been trained to do so, while clubs in weak neighbourhoods will be much less so. That's not crazy, but we have to do something about it, because all the problems are coming together there. If you don't have good governance there and you don't have a good shell around it, you're gonna have to work on that. You can see that the number of volunteers available is much lower. Those are all aspects you have to work on at a club like this. That's what we do. For the next two years, we are going to strengthen this by getting the leak from those clubs as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	Your second question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	I am still waiting for the answer to my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	The disadvantage of asking a number of questions in succession is always that a question can remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	It was only two clear questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mrs Klijnsma announced not so long ago that another EUR 5 million will be made available to exercise children who have little money and for whom there is no money to exercise. This is important, but the culture in the area where they come to play sports, the culture at the association, must be improved. Mrs Karabulut is absolutely right: sport is society and society is sport. So everything that plays in society reflects in sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you.
