ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u1	The first term of office will take place today. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today has a long history. Even before the Fraud Act entered into force in 2013, it was controversial. The Council of State advised the government not to send the bill to the Chamber. At the end of 2012, the Ombudsman declared the law unenforceable. In November of that year, Rinda den Besten, then alderman in Utrecht, called the Fraud Act too strict. The signals that things would go wrong were clear in advance, all the more so because for us the necessity and effectiveness had not been demonstrated in any way. Nevertheless, a large majority of the Chamber, from GroenLinks to PVV, agreed to this law. Among other things, thanks to these parties and, of course, the then government, a lot of people got into big trouble because they accidentally didn't fill out a form properly, forgot to call the UWV or otherwise because the communication from the government wasn't flawless. Not the human size or personal circumstances were leading, but this law was based on the underbelly and curious starting points. It is therefore a very good thing that the law is being amended and it is also necessary. I would like to put another question to the Minister that I asked at the time. Is a substantial tightening up of the Fraud Act really necessary to combat benefit fraud effectively? It's never been proven. Perhaps the Minister has the evidence by now. In fact, it has also turned out to be gossiping, because the judge has spoken on several points and the law has proved untenable. How does the Minister look back on that? Despite some adjustments, we still have a few wishes. It is, of course, a step forward, and it is also a good thing that an administrative body should now take into account people's circumstances and abolish the minimum fine and introduce a maximum fine. Meanwhile, the criteria for people who do not cheat and do not intend to cheat remain harsh. Those who do not understand the complex form or do not speak enough Dutch and therefore make mistakes are still guilty in accordance with this law, because there is no reduction in culpability in these cases. There are also no mitigating circumstances for people who are unable to fill out forms and pass on changes and who are therefore dependent on those who represent interests. If these people make a mistake, they get a fine, because there is no reduction in culpability. In the investigation of the Fraud Act, the Ombudsman concludes that the government is very complex and that people often have the information, but do not know how or where to pass it on. How does the bill respond to this? What is the Minister's response to the Ombudsman's conclusion that some people do not have the ability to pass on adequate information? It is simply a question of forgetting, making mistakes, not understanding information or a medical-psychic state that creates obstacles. Is it not justified to substantially reduce the fine in these cases, for example 10% instead of 25%? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Those who pass on a change but do so at a wrong point of contact, for example, are still punishable and may be fined at a maximum of more than €2,000. Mistakes partly due to the administrative body in question are still subject to penalties in this law. Anyone who passes a change in good faith, but does so at the wrong desk or agency, is in principle still outlawed as a result of this law. A fine of over €8,000 can also be imposed on people who make a number of minor mistakes that can be considered as gross debt. Does the Minister think this is fair? My second comment concerns the reverse burden of proof. Those who do not agree with the fine on top of paying back too much benefit must prove themselves that the UWV, the municipality or other bodies are not right. This reverse burden of proof is unfortunately maintained in the Minister's new proposal. Here is not the principle: you are innocent until proven guilty, but: we think you are guilty and you prove your innocence. It is a particularly bad and harsh part of this law. The hundreds of stories of recent times about the Fraud Act show that people who face a huge refund, and also a fine of thousands of euros, are often distraught and I do not blame them. Why not change on this point, I ask the Minister. Then the unjustly paid fines. In November 2014, the Central Board of Appeal ruled that the Penalty Decision should be amended. The draft law does not provide that the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal on the level of fines and the degree of culpability applies to fines imposed in 2013 and 2014. That's a strange thing. These are sometimes fines of tens of thousands of euros, which have caused serious problems for people. In the meantime, a number of municipalities have themselves chosen to repay unduly paid fines. Why isn't the Minister taking over? Why doesn't he take care of it? The Central Board of Appeal concluded that sanctions previously imposed are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. In the view of the Minister, is this legally sustainable? My fourth point concerns the Ombudsman's recommendations which have not been followed. As is well known, the Ombudsman's final report, No fraud, still fine, wipes the floor with the Fraud Act. Three recommendations are being made, which are very important, according to my group. It is a question of lowering the criminal reporting limit, respecting at all times the unhindered footage and guaranteeing access to debt relief. The fine regime is slightly modified in this bill, but it is also a measure that hinders access to support and a fair trial in the event of a high fine. That's weird. I really wonder why the Minister, who is still a member of the Labour Party, who was against this law with us and, for reasons of principle, to which I am referring, voted against, rejected these recommendations. I'd like a response. I already mentioned the declaration limit. Because the criminal declaration limit is €50,000, most people who are fined are not eligible for criminal proceedings. In practice, this may mean that real fraudsters, people who deliberately commit fraud and are subject to a high fine, will receive a lighter penalty through criminal law than an old lady who has made mistakes and will have to pay back the benefit she has received for a few years too much and get a fine. That could be thousands of euros. Criminal law provides more legal certainty than the present law, inter alia because design needs to be demonstrated. We would like the Minister to follow this recommendation from the Ombudsman. We are considering an amendment on this. We have talked very often about the unhindered foot in this Chamber. It's about the absolute minimum to be able to live on, for bed, bath and bread. In the case of repeated transactions up to a maximum of five years, no account shall be taken of the herd-free foot. As a result, a person receives a benefit on paper, but nothing in practice. If a person does not have sufficient income, he is entitled to an additional benefit. Municipalities have the possibility of setting the free base to zero for a period of three months. The Ombudsman rightly concludes that this is an excessive burden on people. Does the Minister agree with this conclusion? Why does he not choose to accept this recommendation, precisely because it concerns the most basic necessities of life? Here too, we will be tabling an amendment, as in 2012, when it was also supported by the Labour Party. I hope that this amendment will be supported by a majority in the Chamber. Let me now turn to the issue of debt relief. Due to the fact that fines are not taken into account in debt settlement or debt restructuring, the risk of people getting deeper into debt increases. This takes away people's perspective. In addition, there is a contradiction between the Law on debt restructuring of natural persons, in which a requirement of good faith applies. A debt relief process can be terminated if a new debt arises from a fine under the Fraud Act, because one of the criteria for a Wsnp journey is that no new debt arises during the current journey. The Minister insists on this, but I wonder how this relates to social costs. Isn't there a risk that people will end up in a vicious circle due to rising debts, which ultimately leads to higher social costs? Rounding up. Of course, the Group of the Party of European Socialists also believes that deliberate fraud must be tackled hard, whether from a higher or lower point of view. Fraud undermines solidarity and care for each other. At the same time, legislation fails to achieve its aim when, above all, the non-frauders, the innocent, are affected. The Ombudsman's conclusion that, in 68% of cases, there is no deliberate fraud of purely profit-making causes me to wonder how proportional this Fraud Act is. A serious criminal is innocent until proven guilty, but someone who makes a number of mistakes, however stupid, is by definition guilty and has to prove their own innocence. We all know how complicated the government can be. Unfortunately, the proposal to amend the Fraud Act a little bit does not end the criminalisation of benefit recipients. We hope, and challenge him to do so, that the Minister will follow the line of the Labour Party at the time, I assume that this is still the case and he will accept all the Ombudsman's recommendations, so that we can take a firm step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about amending the Fraud Act. A social system, a safety net, can only exist if there is no mass immigration and as little fraud as possible, especially if there is no mass immigration. With the present legislative proposal, the government wants to ensure clarity and legal certainty. The proposed adjustments to the fine system aim at a more proportionate imposition of fines. This should not lead to perverse incentives from the PVV. In other words, the PVV wants a tough approach to culpable debt. It cannot be the case that benefit fraud goes unpunished in the Netherlands. My group therefore has a number of questions and comments on this proposal. In this first period, I shall address it in the most questioning terms. We won't decide what to do with the bill until later. Enforcement is essential to catch and punish people who abuse our social system. Are these changes, I would ask the Minister, going to make sure that, in the case of culpable offences, there is a real increase in the pace of action? Municipalities can provide customization in determining the amount of a fine. This runs counter to the goal of making fines clear, because customization and clarity do not match each other. Why, I ask the Minister, is the minimum fine being removed and what is this a solution for? It cannot be the case that there will soon be less fines because soft penalties will be given to people who have deliberately cheated. And what is the House going to agree with when the government goes into lower regulation to specify how often, and how often, warnings are made? The government also proposes, at the request of implementing parties UWV, SVB and municipalities, to extend the possibility of giving a warning to a number of situations. The government will specify in lower regulation the situations in which a warning may be addressed. The PVV understands that people who report a little too late changes in their circumstances that may have an impact on their benefit should be handled in a generous way. In a number of cases, these are people who report that they have received wages but do not do so until they have received their first paycheck and the benefit has already been paid. In these cases, there is an amount of disadvantage. The UWV accounts for approximately 40% of all fines. The Minister wrote that to the Chamber at the end of 2014. Can the Minister guarantee that the amendments to this law focus solely on this group, so that these people do not fall victim to the rules as they are today? Can the Minister also provide access to the way in which municipalities maintain fraud and abuse? In how many cases will the excess amount received be fully recovered? After all, fraud cannot continue to pay in this country. Then I have a little anecdote. Last week I cycled over the Scheveningen boulevard and there I heard two Moroccan boys boasting about their newly bought BMW; one said to the other: well that's nice of the assistance. I was just wondering when I heard that. There are plenty of people in the Netherlands who do not have assistance and who do work but cannot buy BMW. How many cases of this kind are there in the Netherlands, where fraud also shows that fraudsters drive fat BMWs? Then there is my last question to which I would like a specific answer. How many percent of the people who are fined speak no, little or bad Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u4	Mr. Chairman. The social security system is based on solidarity. Solidarity means that people want to co-pay so that the money ends up with people who are unlucky, who are hurt and who are entitled to it. As soon as tax money goes to people who deliberately evade the rules, it undermines the solidarity in our system and thus also the sustainability of the welfare state, something that we all care about here. That is why a firm approach to fraud is also appropriate. That was also the reason why the D66 Group supported the Fraud Act here. The fines were too low and people who deliberately screwed up walked away laughing. But in practice, following the adoption of the Fraud Act, it turned out that there had been a pass. If you accidentally made a mistake and didn't want to harm the place at all or to get a benefit you weren't entitled to, you'd still be severely punished. Of course, you have to deal with people who deliberately commit fraud, but for people who are mistaken or pass on something too late, coulance or a warning would be more appropriate. Very soon after the adoption and entry into force of that law, D66, together with the CDA, called for a change to the law through the Heerma/Van Weyenberg motion in 2013. Today there will be that change. Following a report by the National Ombudsman and a ruling by the Central Board of Appeal in 2014, there is now a legislative proposal. The Minister had no choice, but I had the impression that even without the judge's ruling, the Minister would have moved, because he too saw that in practice this law did not work out in the way many had intended. As far as the D66 group is concerned, this bill offers more room for customization. Fraudsters can still be punished as severely as in the old regime, and people who are wrong can now warn and give a lower fine. For example, we are also done with the minimum fine of €150, which was often disproportionate. But I still have a few questions. For example, not all the recommendations made by the National Ombudsman are followed, including with regard to the free of attachment. We have set that batterless foot together as the absolute minimum of existence. Shouldn't that be anchored even more firmly? Why wasn't that chosen? It's a lot of people who don't have much to spend. They will not be able to receive any benefits for a few months. If you're not careful, the debt will only grow. Before you know it, that doesn't lead to the behavior you want, but to a movement in the wrong direction. Isn't the cure worse than the ailment? In any case, it is the question to what extent only with a fine can you achieve the effect you intend to achieve. People who are wrong and who are less reproachable, for example because they do not have their administration in order, are going to treat you as a fraud and give a fine. I understand the purpose, but isn't it better to prevent people from making another mistake by using the time of the offense, for example, with them, perhaps in an urgent way, to make sure that they get their household books in order? In such ways, you reduce the chance of repetition much more than just a fine. Is there a conclusive approach to that kind of violation? What does the Minister think of this idea? The Ombudsman recommended that people should not be excluded from debt relief. I understand from the written answers that fraud or repeated crime is not a mandatory exclusion ground for debt relief, but that municipalities can make a choice. Is it sufficiently clear to municipalities that this freedom of choice exists? Surely the Ombudsman recommends this for nothing? Does the Minister have any idea how this works in practice? Is this a dead letter in practice or are many people still excluded from debt relief? I think this is an important question, including Mrs Karabulut's amendment to item No. 13 to be able to weigh. Are municipalities sufficiently aware that it is a possibility? The Minister also wrote in the written reply that municipalities and implementing authorities should not waive fines imposed in the context of debt relief. When it comes to intent or gross guilt, I can follow that, but what about reduced culpability? Couldn't you apply a little more differentiation in the approach? Did the Minister consider that? If so, why wasn't that chosen? If not, could it not be an idea that if there is a mistake and a reduction in culpability, it is possible to partially cancel the fine? That can help people put financial order in order. There's been a lot of discussion about the criminal law threshold. It's at $50,000 now. The Minister says that he will look at it later and that he intends to consider it as a matter of priority in a debate on administrative and criminal law, also in the light of the unsolicited opinion of the Council of State. I understand that the Minister does not want to do this in isolation by one matter law, but I do wonder when I can expect it. Twice briefly changing the law would also be unfortunate. I would like to clarify this point. I also have a question about how this will work out in practice. People are concerned that the rules that are now becoming more customised, which I welcome, can lead to more differences in implementation practice. The minister says he'll do everything he can to ensure uniformity. How exactly is he going to do that? Will he monitor that, too? How will he continue to involve the Chamber? I think that is an important point. I know the Minister shares the goal. I have not yet received a clear answer to the question about the amount of the fine in the event of reduced culpability. My group has asked whether this fine should be 25% or whether it could be 5% or 1%. I'm not saying I'm arguing for that, but I'm trying to find out how much space the law gives to an enforcer or to a enforcer. The Minister writes that there may be policy rules or municipal regulations. Okay, but can there be a 1% or 5% fine in one municipality and something else in the other? How's that? What exactly can we do? I think it is important that there should be no misunderstandings about this, even for the implementation later. A few years after the law enters into force, the law is amended. This means that there are people who received a fine in 2013 or 2014 that they would not get with this amended law, especially since the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal. If you've gone ahead and that procedure is still going on, it may mean that the fine will be waived, but if you've accepted the fine, you can't. That may be inevitable if you change the law, but it gets complicated if recidivism is also important in the law. If you are caught for something for the second time, there will be a much stricter sanctioning regime. We support that principle, but how do we deal with people who have not pleaded against a fine that they would not get now, but who are still in contact with their implementing authority for the second time? Is that a complete recidivism? How does the Minister see this? Does he share my concerns about whether this is working reasonably well in practice? In dealing with the Fraud Act four years ago, there was a great deal of debate on the possibility of taking action. We can talk about fines for a long time, but what about the odds that the people who are deliberately cheating on the shit? Mrs Karabulut just gave the Ombudsman's example. Indeed, Mr Heerma has also said once that the big fish are coming out of the dance, while people who are wrong are being treated very hard. I think it is important for the Minister to give us more insight into the situation and what he can do to increase the chances of getting involved in a deliberate fraud. Everyone agrees on that in the Chamber, from left to right. That is what the effort must be on. Is the Minister prepared to give more insight into this? Can he do that in his answer? Is he willing to draw up an attack plan regarding the chance of getting caught? I find that at least as interesting as the level of fines. How do we ensure that people who undermine solidarity are caught and punished? Another question about the policy on fines under the Foreign Labour Act. This is not part of the Fraud Act, but there is also a similar problem here. I have already asked questions about companies that, for example, had hired a fully certified cleaning company, and it turned out that one person had been in illegally for an hour. This sometimes led to very heavy fines for entrepreneurs who had done everything they could to regulate it properly, as it should; and rightly so. Recently, there was the example of an au pairing agency which, without warning, suddenly receives a fine of thousands of euros for minor errors, often administrative errors. The Foreign Labour Act was part of the adopted motion of colleague Heerma and myself. The minister's gonna look into it, but he's gonna need a little more time. He'll come back to it in a policy fine. Can the Minister indicate when that rule will come into force and when he will be putting it before the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, we have had a lot of debates on tightening up the Fraud Act. This law is now partially overturned for people who are not genuine fraudsters but who have made a mistake. We agree with each other on the need to tackle genuine fraud, together with Mrs Karabulut and Mr Van Weyenberg. However, the law that entered into force on 1 January 2013 did something different in practice. People who made a mistake were severely fined as fraudsters, without distinguishing between the degree of culpability, the seriousness of the offence and the circumstances of the case. I think that in 2013 and 2014 we all saw many examples of inexplicable situations in this area. It is therefore not for nothing that the Central Appeals Board reached a destructive judgment on this law by the end of 2014. This actually forced the current legislative amendment. That was in line with the motion that was adopted in this House six months ago with broad support. It also called for a number of changes to this point. Moreover, the ruling of the Central Appeals Board is not on its own. With regard to the Labour Law, the Council of State has also argued that foreigners, but also more recently when it comes to the Arbo Act, have made it very easy for the government to impose fines through administrative law, too easy, which does not sufficiently safeguard the rights of people in the assistance and those of companies. It will not surprise the Minister that the CDA Group is pleased with the legislative proposal now before us, with the changes that will ensure that the inexplicable situations no longer occur. But I do have a few more questions. The Council of State, in its unsolicited opinion of mid-2015 as well as in its advice on this bill, adopted a position of principle in relation to administrative law and criminal law. The board has indicated that with the present amendment, matters of intent and gross guilt become part of the administrative law process, whereas they actually belong in criminal law. In practice, the Council believes that this will lead to legal inequality because administrative law is not intended for this purpose. Mr Van Weyenberg also pointed out this. I understand that the Minister states that this change of law was due to the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. A response to the unsolicited State Opinion Council will follow later. In the written reply, the Minister states that we will get that response before the summer. I can't wait to see what's going on. What is the Minister's view of the Council of State's position of principle on matters of intent and gross guilt, which are thus brought into administrative law? This is quite interesting with the category 3 and category 5 fines that are now being introduced. Category 5 fines are dealt with in the case of design and category 3 fines in case of more or less culpability. Suppose there is a set-up and therefore potential category 5 fines. In practice, will most cases not then end up in criminal law by means of directives and hand-outs? Would that not confirm what the Council of State has indicated? I'd like a response. I have another question about the degree of culpability. Mr Schut of the VVD has repeatedly pointed out, in my view, that she did so on the radio this morning, that no penalty will be imposed in the event of a mistake, because there would be no culpability. But I don't think that's how administrative law works right now. We have all heard examples of non-defense when you are unconscious or in a coma. That is not reproachable, but making a mistake does not apply to administrative law as non-criminal. This requires the possibility of a warning. Could the Minister reflect on the question whether making a mistake can lead to a fine even now? Is this change necessary for this purpose? In that context, I would also like to see the option of a zero penalty. The VVD Group has advocated this in the written round of this discussion, but also recently in a general discussion on working conditions. It stated, in the context of arbobobutes, that fines should be moderated in advance. The possibility of a zero penalty should also be created. The Minister explained in the written round that the imposition of zero fines has to do with a provision of the law or a provision of the law. The introduction of a zero penalty in this law would mean a further weakening of the law than extending it to the possibility of giving a warning. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u6	Mr Van Weyenberg has been at the interrupting microphone for some time. This seems to me to be the time to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr Heerma rightly asked the Minister how he should weigh the statements of the MP of the VVD. Do I understand correctly that on the basis of all conversations at UWV, at the Social Insurance Bank and in municipalities, he has the impression that a mistake does indeed lead to a compelling imposition of a fine? Indeed, the criterion was used that it was only not reproachable when you were in a coma. In the event of a mistake, it was felt that the fine should be imposed. That's the image I got from practice. It is good that Mr Heerma asks, but I would like to see if he is still on the same track as I am in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u8	The answer to that question is yes. All the discussions that we have had on this point indicate that a mistake is being fined and that the present adjustments are necessary, not only because of justice but also because the highest judges in our country have called us back as legislators. They have said: this is not reasonable; this must be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u9	That's a clear answer. Nor am I surprised to find Mr Heerma on the side of almost the entire Chamber who would like this warning. This almost full Chamber also agrees with the Minister that the law should be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u10	Interestingly, a day too late can lead to a warning, provided that it is not just the day on which the money was transferred. Under the current law, reporting something a day late can lead to the following answers. In one case it is said: thank you for reporting it, you will receive a warning because you need to have your affairs in order. In the other case, if you just have the accident to report it on the day the money was transferred, it is said: you have to repay it and rightly.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is now being adapted by offering the possibility to give a warning. I think that is right and very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u11	There is an interruption by Mrs Schut of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u12	Does Mr Heerma agree with the VVD that there was already a warning in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u13	I don't think this is something to agree with, because that's a fact. The implementation practice has indicated at numerous times that the warning determination is partly responsible for the unexplained situations that arise. Then it is also right that we, as legislators, should make this more reasonable and fairer. Interestingly, the possibility of a zero penalty, which has been repeatedly mentioned by the VVD, is a further instrument which weakens the law. A determination is then converted into a determination. However, it is about making the warning more reasonable. Not the moment you report it a day late is relevant, but the fact that you do it while it's a small amount of disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u14	We've talked about the zero penalty before. The last word has not yet been said. How does the CDA weigh the General Administrative Law Act in this context? It states that there can never be punishment without guilt. This was also confirmed by the Minister during the written round. At the time when there is no culpability, there can be no fine. It is a lot more complicated than Mr Heerma now suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u15	I don't think it's complicated at all. There is administrative law in which an administrative fine can be imposed, for example under the Foreign Labour Act. Then there is the possibility of giving a zero penalty. This was also advocated by the VVD for the Arbowet. There are also situations where a fine must be imposed. Then there is no way to impose a zero penalty. It's as simple as that. In addition, there is the question of when to give a warning. The limited implementation of this in the law led to situations that cannot be explained. Not the fact that you report a mistake quickly determines the imposition of a fine, but the fact that the money was just transferred on that day. That's not fair. I think Mrs Schut was there when we were given such examples on work visits. That is now being resolved, and rightly so. The Foreign Labour Act was also part of motion Heerma/Van Weyenberg which was adopted by a very broad Chamber majority in mid-2014. The Minister shall state in writing that the implementation of this part of the motion will take place in the short term. What is the state of play now? Is this gonna happen soon? What about broadening the possibilities of giving a warning? In the written reply it is mentioned that this is being looked at. Several colleagues have already referred to the issue of debt relief on the one hand and the decommissioning of the herd-free foot in the event of a relapse on the other. Both the Ombudsman and municipalities and Divosa argue that the law on this issue should be amended. In its response, the VNG states that municipalities already regulate this problem, but that executive ZBOs would not be able to do so. It would create weird, crooked situations. Is this true? How does the Minister view this? How should this be seen in the light of all the discussions that we have already had on poverty and debt, debt relief and respect for the unwound foot? And if you have been fined 25% in an earlier case, because you were less blameworthy, isn't that quite different than if you were fined 100% in a case where intent was involved, or a 75% fine in the case of gross debt? I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has already asked for this. Are these not different situations, which should be assessed differently in the context of the decommissioning of the herd-free foot or the exclusion of debt relief? Following on from the Ombudsman's plea, but also from what the VNG and Divosa say about this, I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. For my group, too, the response to this issue is very relevant for the assessment of the amendments tabled by the SP on this issue. It is also interesting that a lot has already been warned in advance about the consequences this might have for the chance of getting caught. Mrs Karabulut has already indicated that. Wouldn't this mean less attention to the serious cases of fraud? The Social Detectives went the furthest in this last year, stating that the Fraud Act resulted in so much time and attention being placed in the implementation of administrative law and the enforcement of the intelligence obligation that there was less capacity to do real social detectives to catch the big bad guys. Can the Minister reflect on whether, in his view, anything has happened to the chance of getting caught since the introduction of the tightening-up of the Fraud Act? Is it enlarged, or are the social detectives right, and has the chance of getting caught reduced because the tightening has distracted the attention from the real work? Finally, before I finish, one final question. The Minister has already indicated in an earlier AO that it would set a legal precedent if you revised fines for which no legal remedy was available. In practice, however, there are sounds that certain municipalities do. To what extent does this happen? Don't the municipalities have a point if they revise these fines? In the written reply, the Minister states that municipalities are free to do so, but this may lead to a large difference between fines paid by UWV and fines paid by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u16	What do you think? Shouldn't those fines indeed be revised, in accordance with the judge's ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u17	I am in dubio about this; that is why I am asking the Minister the question. On the one hand, this feels very strange when the judge says that the fines have been handed out and must be revised on the wrong legal basis. On the other hand, I would like to ask myself whether it is right to set a precedent and that the Minister does not have to do it legally. That again raises the question of why municipalities do it. In fact, Mrs Karabulut should ask me this question again in the second term tomorrow, because I would also like to await the Minister's reply. I am thinking about these two elements and I am very curious about the answer of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u18	I'd like to help you in the process of thinking. If the judge decides that fines have been wrongly distributed, it is both socially and legally desirable and quite right that they should be reviewed. The judge did the same; they were fines from 2013 and 2014. This is also relevant for any other future case in which Cabinets, with the approval of Parliament, deliver laws of this kind, which sometimes cause people to get hurt with tens of thousands of euros and never get out of them. Then it is only right, both socially and legally, that we correct this, because it is contrary to international law. It would be a credit to the CDA, which voted in favour of the law, to really do so and to pronounce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u19	It's kind of you to think with Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u20	I thank her for thinking along. But we will discuss this tomorrow after the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u21	Mr. Chairman. If people commit fraud or receive benefits while knowingly ignoring the fact that they now have a job, it is right that they should be punished for doing so. This threatens the solidarity of our social security system, against which we must act. That is why my group agreed at the time to tighten up the law. But what should have been a sharper approach to fraud and gross negligence in social security was sometimes absurd in practice, combined with a lack of clarity about the obligations under the Participation Act, for example. I have asked for this on a regular basis myself. I call the case of the man who made videos of a divine service. He got a heavy fine, because he could have done that filming professionally. It will be no surprise that in practice he was not the Steven Spielberg of the Low Countries! But that's how he was treated, resulting in a huge fine. It was not even a question of petty fines: it could be thousands of euros and the scope for clemency proved to be limited. There was a ruling from the Central Board of Appeal, which also ruled that the fines did not take sufficient account of the circumstances of the case. Therefore, de facto a milder fine regime has been in place since 2014, with different heights. There is a difference between people who are negligent and people who deliberately bottle the lot. The government is now proposing to transpose this into a law, which seems very sensible to me. I do, however, have a number of comments on how the legislative proposal has taken shape, while a number of parts are still missing from the legislative proposal. Firstly, I am still concerned about the lack of clarity about the obligations. This, together with the Law, can lead to substantial fines, for example if the obligation to provide information is exceeded. National attention was given to the mother of rapper Lange Frans. She was fined €34.000 for babysitting her grandchildren. That fine was finally removed from the table by the municipality. But it shows that there is apparently a lack of clarity as to the rules to be observed and the information to be provided. Are the standards, such as this kind of volunteering, sufficiently clear by now, so that people do not break the obligation of intelligence ignorantly? If so, is there room for coulance? I'm still not comfortable with that, when the norm needs to be really clear. Volunteering or babysitting children should be possible, that is not fraud. Can the Minister make a statement of principle on this matter? Can he indicate whether it is now sufficiently clear what is and is not allowed under the law? Secondly, I would like to join with the Council of State, which makes some important comments on the criminality of the government's proposal. Mr Heerma has already mentioned this. The comments concern the mixing of criminal and administrative law. A general opinion from the Council of State was written in spring 2015. The message: mixing administrative and criminal law causes problems. In its 2014 ruling, the Central Council sets out different categories in which the fine should have a certain level: gross debt, intent, etc. These are all terms of a criminal nature, of which you can ask yourself whether they belong in administrative law. The Central Council could not do anything else, because it had to do with the existing legal framework, and that was administrative law. But the verdict exudes that these fines are actually criminal in nature. It is now up to the legislator. The government had the opportunity to develop a system which is partly administrative, in the event of ordinary negligence, and partly criminal, in the deliberate concealment of cases. That would have improved the practice of implementation, but also the legal protection of people who are subject to such a very high fine. However, that was not done. Why not? I have already asked for this in the written round. The government writes that it wants to think longer about that general opinion of the Council of State. How long do we want it? The advice has been there for over a year. Surely it is unsatisfactory that we still have to think about this? It does not relieve you of the duty to write a good law now, especially if you have taken so long to write that law from the 2014 ruling. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Should the border on criminal prosecution at least not be adjusted? Mrs Karabulut has tabled an amendment to that effect. And, according to the Minister, is this law an intermediate station for the government or is it a sustainable arrangement? The third point of attention is the position of the people in debt. The Ombudsman has rightly called for attention to be paid to this. We all know that many people entering debt relief are vulnerable. Information obligations and the like are frequently violated, if only because the overview has been lost. I do not want these people to be denied access to debt relief for payment of a fine. That creates a downward spiral. The Secretary of State states that this should not be done categorically, unless someone commits fraud. The problem is that these days you are committing fraud very quickly. I would therefore like the Minister to be clear. As far as he is concerned, is it true that you are only allowed to be excluded from debt relief by the municipality if it leads to a criminal conviction? I would also like to make a proposal for those people who have indeed gone grossly wrong, because I find it difficult to say to them: look at it further. I'd still like to give those people a chance to repent. I am therefore working on an amendment for a conditional return scheme. I apologize for the fact that it is not there yet; because of the recess and the holidays I had less time for it than usual. This return scheme should make it possible for institutions such as the UWV to participate in a debt relief process under conditions. One condition is that the conduct of the person concerned clearly shows that he or she will not make the mistake again in the future. This provision is also included in Article 18 (11) of the Participation Act. I'll try to fit in as much as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u22	Can you give an approximate indication when you think that amendment is going to be tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u23	The legislative office is now working on this. I don't know if they're gonna make it tonight, but otherwise it's gonna be there in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u24	So for the second term on the side of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u25	I know that the people at Bureau of Legislation are always working very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u26	Fine, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u27	In addition, there is a conditional nature to the debt relief process. It is therefore essential that the behaviours are unambiguous, so it appears that they do not want to go in the wrong direction and that they have come to their senses. Also, the partial remission is conditional: if you go in the wrong again, you still have to pay back everything. I hope, therefore, that the amendment will be there for the continuation tomorrow. I also ask whether the decision of the Central Council of 11 January this year has been sufficiently taken into account in this legislative proposal. It states, inter alia, that the fines must be paid within a reasonable period of time, taking into account the capacity of the person who receives them. How will this be done in practice? Assistance benefits will soon be limited to 10% for 24 months in the event of intent. That is up to €3,300 for a couple. Is that going to be recorded in the Penance Decision? Doesn't this statement also touch on respect for the batter-free foot? In July 2015, I already tabled a motion with colleagues from SP, CDA and D66 to respect that unhindered foot in the framework of fraud legislation. It is really time for us to take steps in this respect, because I do not quite understand why the crossing of the unhindered foot should be used as a measure to combat fraud by polyplayers. That does not seem to me to be a solution; it only exacerbates the problems. I would also like to stress that the premium-free foot is the absolute minimum that we in the Netherlands say you should be able to live on. Then crossing the boundless foot is another punishment, which should not be possible as far as we are concerned. I have two short questions. My first question is about people with ggz complaints or addictions. Those people can get fines faster because they are certainly not able to meet all kinds of obligations. Those fines are not really productive in this context. Has the Minister considered that there is sufficient regulation to take account of the specific circumstances of these people, so that they do not get caught up in the rain? My second question concerns the financial consequences of this bill. There is now EUR 33 million less from the fines, so I say a little euphemistically. That money will be added to the macro budget. Where is that taken from SZW's budget? The Minister says it's being taken out of the budget. Could he indicate more specifically where he had that space? Have those costs been met since November 2014 when the decision of the Central Council came?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u28	Mr. Chairman. Fraud goes against the sense of justice of all of us. People are quite willing to pay taxes for the benefit of someone else if they cannot provide for their own income, but they are concerned that our solidarity is being abused. It's hard to tackle benefit fraud. Recent research in Rotterdam-Zuid in which public and private institutions collaborated and linked information has shown that fraud is more common than is sometimes expected. If fraud is detected, then we believe that it needs to be tackled firmly. That is why in 2013 the Fraud Act was introduced by Henk Kamp in Rutte I, with the full support of the CDA. If a beneficiary in the municipality, the UWV or the Social Insurance Bank does not provide the necessary information and has a financial advantage, a fine of 100% of the amount of disadvantage was the norm. If the fraud was less culpable, the fine could be moderated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u29	And we knew that! Hundreds or perhaps thousands of people who are not frauders have been fined. Mrs. Schut says something very important. She says that we all want to fight fraud. The Ombudsman concludes in his report that the purpose of the Fraud Act is to prevent fraud and maintain support for social security, but that in practice the law does not lead to an increased chance for fraudsters, as the staff of the implementing institutions also indicate. This raises the question of whether this law achieves its objective in practice. He added that many also indicated that the penalties in criminal law were considerably lighter than the fines that people now get under administrative law. In short, innocent people are designated as frauds. They get very high fines which get them into trouble, while the criminals run away. What is Mrs Schut's answer to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u30	According to the VVD, there is no distinction between big bad guys and small bad guys. If Mrs Karabulut pleads here for high penalties for people who employ undeclared work or undeclared workers, she will find the VVD at her side. However, we also believe that people who commit benefit fraud should be punished to the same extent. And, of course, if this fraud is less reproachable, then there must be a lower fine; we agree on that. But it's not like people who commit fraud are pathetic and innocent. It is first demonstrated that there is fraud. They were wrongly paid a benefit. Otherwise, they wouldn't get a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u31	The point is that this law and all the muscle language of the VVD, unfortunately supported by several parties at the time, have caught thousands of innocents, who give the VVD the title "frauder" when they are not and, as it says and has been proven, the real criminals are not caught. Not only do I say that, but also the executive agencies and the social detectives say that. My question is what you think of that, what your answer to all these people is and whether you are going to argue to the Minister that this law should go off the table and that there should really be a just law that would deal with the real criminals instead of the innocent people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u32	We are not going to argue in favour of this, because we still support the Fraud Act. What goes wrong in implementation needs to be addressed in particular in implementation. We do not believe, unlike the SP, that this law has failed. We simply want to maintain the fight against fraud and ensure that people who have been wrongly paid benefits are punished, as we are in favour of tackling major crooks. We do not want to distinguish between great criminals and small crooks. Remember, the facts speak for themselves. After all, what are the consequences of this legislative amendment? The law becomes so little deterrent that there is even 12 million more fraud. It is therefore expected that this legislative amendment will result in an additional 12 million in fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u33	It is the world upside down that continues to advocate the VVD. The judge has chopped up this bill. The amounts you mention are the result of you wrongly labeling innocent people in advance as a 'frauder' and putting them with very high fines. That must indeed be partly reversed. This is 1% of the total fraud in the Netherlands. I think that's 1% too much when you look at the amount of fraud in social security. I just don't understand that the VVD doesn't admit that this law was just based on the lower abdomen and that this law takes the innocent and lets the big fish get away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u34	I can repeat myself: I do not agree with Mrs Karabulut. The figures I just mentioned are the consequences of this legislative amendment. I did not even talk about paying back fines from the past, because we are not for that either. If you were allowed to drive 120 km/h somewhere in the past and this year 130 km/h, you will not get a retroactive penalty back that you have been fined in the past. That is not the case here either. We disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u35	I heard Mr Schut on the radio this morning say that the VVD Group is equal for equal monks. They meant that in the context of companies that are punished and people with benefits that are punished. The interesting thing is that the Council of State recently flagged back the government on fines in the context of occupational regulation because it did not take into account the extent to which the offence was committed: had a company done its best or knowingly failed to comply with all the rules? In that debate, the VVD advocates active moderation of fines according to the nature of the case and even introducing the possibility of a zero penalty. But if you are really for equal monks, equal hoods, then you should do the same thing in this bill as the VVD advocates for companies, namely taking into account the nature of the case and not introducing the possibility of a fine in the event of a minor offence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u36	Mr Heerma of the CDA is constantly getting mixed up. You would expect that after four years of debate this would have been reduced by now what is in the law and what is in the implementation. In this legislative proposal, only limits for fines in the law have been mentioned. In the Penalty Decision, in implementation, the fine can be moderated. The VVD agrees with that. We agree with the judgments which state that the fine must be moderated as the fraud is less culpable. That's what I've always said. If fraud is not culpable and if you have made a mistake, you should be fined less. If my colleague is in favour of adjusting the level of fines as the fraud is less reproachable, he will therefore say exactly what I have always said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u37	I find this very interesting. All the performers and the entire Chamber say that the law needs to be amended. All the high courts also say that the law needs to be amended, but the VVD says: no, sorry; everyone is a ghost rider and we are the only ones driving in the right direction. But that still doesn't answer my question. With regard to companies and labour law, the VVD says that there should be differentiation according to the nature of the case, that the legislation should be amended if the Council of State is to give us the power to act as legislator and enforcer and that there should be the possibility of a zero penalty. For companies, the VVD says that, but here the VVD says: no, don't give a warning in small cases; all fraud is fraud and we're going to fight everyone just as hard. Then the VVD Group itself sins against this morning's 'like monks, equal hoods' principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u38	The VVD is indeed subject to the adage "equal monks, equal hoods." I just delivered a very small piece of my input. I will deal with the zero penalty later. We are in favour of a zero penalty, because if you find fraud with which someone has wrongly received a benefit and if there has been no culpable action, we think it is a good starting point that there is a zero penalty. I have prepared an amendment on this, but as far as I can see it is superfluous. This possibility already exists in the General Administrative Law Act. I need to clarify that first. This has been written for a long time. We are in favour of a zero fine and a moderation of fines in the event of mistakes. So we speak with one mouth. The only thing we do not want is for the CDA to give a warning to people who have been wrongly receiving benefits for a year but who are reporting themselves. This can be done with the current legislative amendment, and we are absolutely opposed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u39	Mr Heerma, for the third time; briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u40	Very briefly. All classical liberals have always said that civil rights must be adequately protected from too much government power. The VVD seems to want to do the opposite: protect the rights of the government against citizens. That's really the wrong route. The highest court also points out that the law needs to be amended. I find the amendment mentioned by Mrs Schut interesting. In my opinion, the zero fine advocated by the VVD goes beyond the present power of warning. Is Mrs Schut prepared to share that amendment with us so that we can all judge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u41	It was not my intention to move that amendment forward. I just want to make sure that there will be no fine if there has been no culpable action. That is the aim of the amendment, but if it is not feasible, I cannot share it with you either. That seems to be the case so far. When I get more clarity from the Minister, I will still consider whether or not to table the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u42	Mrs Schut pointed out in a small way that this law would lead to 12 million more fraud. This morning she added something to that on the radio. She then said: "This law leads to 12 million more fraud. The Minister therefore ensures that fraud increases." Does it reiterate the view that this Minister, who, on behalf of the Rutte/Samsom cabinet, is responsible for increasing fraud by 12 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u43	Yeah, the numbers speak for themselves. It's in writing. The expectation is 21 million less fine and 12 million more fraud, because the law is not as deterrent as it has been in the past, increasing fraud. So the facts speak for themselves here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u44	Mrs Schut says: the facts speak for themselves. Mrs Schut spoke quite clearly on the radio. I ask her to repeat, if she thinks it is true, that this minister is responsible for increasing fraud by 12 million. Can Mrs Schut literally repeat them? Is she still behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u45	It is clear that this bill has been tabled by the cabinet, of which this minister is a member, and that this bill leads to more fraud than is currently taking place. Let's be clear about that. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u46	Then repeat those words! I notice that there is now some kind of restraint that was not on the radio with Mrs Schut this morning. I think it is so fancy, if you dare to use such big words on the radio, to say in the Chamber with the govern ment person himself: this minister is responsible for that. If she doesn't do that now, then she's got to moderate her words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u47	I speak exactly the same words: this Minister is responsible for this bill and this bill will create tens of millions more fraud. In that sense, the Minister does indeed take care of that, but that is a game of words. Of course it is. We have a dualist system and in it the VVD cannot agree with the cabinet. That is the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u48	I wanted to give you the floor, Mr Van Weyenberg, but if you sit down again, we will go to Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u49	First of all, does Mrs Schut-Will not agree with me that there is quite a difference between EUR 12 million less in fines and EUR 12 million more fraud, which she is always talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u50	We are talking about 21 million in lower fines and 12 million more fraud, as stated in the written round, because the law is no longer as deterrent as it was before. So we're talking about a total of 33 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u51	We have often experienced that the VVD has learned quite a lot from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, by the way, after she did so in the media in advance. It was then always a while before there was a reluctant, without using the word "excus," an excuse came and it was said that it was not. I assume that Mrs Schut-Welken, now that she has heard that the whole Chamber of Parliament is going to have to deal with this law, and everyone who is dealing with it, will find that there is more than enough reason to amend it, realize that this is just going to happen and that you should praise this minister rather than put him on the accused's bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u52	We do not, because we do not agree with this change of law. That can't be a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u53	The image comes to me from a ghost rider who calls the police and says: I'm on that and that road and dozens of ghost riders are coming my way. Anyway, my question is about something else. According to Mrs Schut, this minister is responsible for more fraud. Then it is true that Mr Rutte is also responsible for increasing fraud. After all, the cabinet speaks with one mouth. Does Mrs Schut say here today that the policy of Prime Minister Rutte and Deputy Prime Minister Asscher leads to more fraud? After all, the cabinet is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u54	We have a dualist system, Mr Van Weyenberg. This means that the VVD itself forms its opinion on this point. We do, however, support the legislative proposal that has been tabled earlier and which is enshrined in the government agreement, namely the original Rutte I fraud law. Of course, we also saw the ruling of the Central Appeals Council of 24 November 2014. We also believe that what has emerged from this should be codified. Apart from the transitional law, however, this should not be codified in the law. We therefore believe that we should abstain from all the other further legislative changes, which are mainly an effect of the motion of the CDA and D66, which we were not in favour of. That is why we are against the Fraud Act: because we were against the motion of the CDA and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u55	Mr President, I would like to ask a second question, but, if I may, with a small hink-step-jump. I did not receive an answer to my question. My question was not about what Mrs Schut's answer was about. Mrs Schut blames the Minister for the increase in fraud. The Minister submits this bill on behalf of the cabinet. So my question is: will Mrs Schut confirm that the VVD Group believes that the action of not only Minister Asscher but also of Prime Minister Rutte, because it is his cabinet and therefore his legislative proposal, leads to more fraud? I do not agree with that, but I think that Mrs Schut, when she looks at the Minister for Social Affairs, should also have the courage to use the same words for the Prime Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u56	The cabinet speaks with one mouth. This is Minister Asscher now. He filed this bill. We're against this bill. That's all I can say. We are doing this because there is simply a responsibility of the VVD Group towards the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u57	Mrs. Karabulut. Mr Van Weyenberg still?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u58	Yes, please, Mr President, because this is the answer to my first question. So Mrs Schut also thinks that the Prime Minister is creating more fraud. The second question that I would like to ask is thank you for the opportunity. It is about something that Mrs Schut has just done and which I hate very much, namely to call for the problem to be implemented. I always find it too easy for us to hide behind the execution here. I would appreciate it if Mrs Schut would say that she has a different political view, but that people in the implementation who are trying to implement the law have simply implemented that law in conscience and that they have been relied upon by the judge and that we should not charge those people, but that we should be in politics for that. I do not think that we should put our officials and our executives in the dock here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u59	I have said since the beginning of the debate on this Fraud Act that at the moment when someone makes a mistake and is less reproachable, the fine should therefore be zero in implementation, the fine imposed. So we also support, and I have said this on several occasions, the various categories of fines that have now been introduced in the Penalty Decision. In this sense, there is no light whatsoever between what Mr Van Weyenberg thinks and what the VVD thinks, but I do not think that the Fraud Act itself should be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u60	May I ask Members to intervene a little bit less? That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u61	The fact that the VVD positions the Minister of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister as champions of fraud is up to now. I think the Minister thinks his own is the same. But do I understand that the VVD no longer recognizes the rule of law as we know it? After all, the Central Board of Appeal has, of course, made a ruling. That ruling is breaking this law and the Minister comes up with changes after that ruling. Do I understand that Mrs Schut does not respect the judge's ruling and that she is actually saying that we should just ignore it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u62	I do not know how Mrs Karabulut got this out of my words, because I absolutely did not say that. I just said that the judge's ruling actually indicates the implementation of the law in the Penance Order. In the judgment of the judge Mrs Karabulut can read the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, no mention is made of an amendment of the law at any time. It is simply said that you have to mitigate the fine in case of a lower amount of disadvantage or if the fraud is not culpable. That's dealt with in the Penance Order. We also accept and support this as a VVD, because we respect court rulings, but the amendment of the law is actually only about the implementation of the motion of D66 and the CDA. By adopting this motion, the Minister must now implement this motion and we have this case, which ultimately also leads to higher deficits in the government because there will be more fraud in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u63	Mr President, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u64	It's getting a little crowded with the interrupting microphones, but Mrs Karabulut spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u65	I can tell here that the VVD is finding more and more fraudsters. If I followed that reasoning and looked at the number of integrity violations by VVDs, I would almost be tempted to say: look at yourself. For if I were to go along with your reasoning, I would not only ignore judgments of the judge and deny that it must have legal consequences so that the execution can do its job. Then I would also put away all VVDs with one stroke of pens as fraudsters and pocket fillers. I don't, because I look at what people do and not at their political color. I would really appreciate it, but I no longer expect you to acknowledge at least all those people who have been unfairly cut back on their benefits and got fines, who have got into serious trouble and who may not be able to recover socially. I would appreciate it if you would acknowledge your own responsibility as legislator instead of labeling everyone as a fraud. Take a critical look at yourself and your own work, because you are not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u66	This was your brief interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u67	I have no further reaction to this. I don't think this is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u68	I do not make a habit of making a personal statement here, but it has to be done now, because the VVD Group is doing something about history. It is not the case that the Minister merely responds to a motion. At the time of the Social Affairs budget for 2014, the Minister in Vak-K...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u69	What's your personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u70	My personal fact is that the Minister indicated that the ruling of the Central Appeals Board was necessary to amend the law in line with the motion that had been adopted. Those are the facts. The VVD Group is now putting us in the position that it is different, but it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u71	It's been noted. Would you like to respond to that, Mrs Schut-Bedanken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u72	Yes. We must look back at the facts here too, Mr Heerma. The fact is that only a maximum fine is included in the law. The main point of substance is the implementation of the motion of the CDA and D66. The rest is just technique, except for that point. If you say that's not true, you'll have to refute it yourself, but this is what I can see in the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u73	I would like to return to the small debate that Mrs Schut-Welken and I had just had about the EUR 12 million in extra fraud caused by the Prime Minister of the VVD House and his colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I just grabbed the pieces. The 12 million is the projected decline in behavioural effects as reflected by the entry into force of the original law. Mrs Schut-Welkins agrees with me that the problem with that original law is right that everything in it was supposed to be fraud. I also heard Mrs Schut-Welk just now say that she actually agrees that a distinction should be made between one and the other offence on the basis of the circumstances of the case. I assume she agrees with me that her remark just now that EUR 12 million more in fraud is caused by this relaxation of the law is not correct. What's happening now is this. Wrong assumptions in the previous law, where everything was seen as fraud, are now being corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u74	I do not agree with Mr Kerstens. It does say that it's about behavioral effects. What do behavioral effects of this bill want? This relates to this bill and not to the old law. It concerns this bill and this revision of the law. What are behavioral effects? That means people change their behavior because they see this bill. Because fines are reduced and because warning is more frequent, they are more likely to commit fraud. That is a behavioral effect, and so it is in the written documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u75	I propose that Mrs Schut continue her speech. She has now been interrupted for 26.5 minutes and has spoken for 1 minute and 7 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u76	I've had most of my input by now. That is a good thing. I'm gonna get a few more things out of it. The ruling of the Central Board of Appeal of 24 November 2014 required better account to be taken of the ceilings of criminal law in the Fraud Act and the revision of the transitional law. If it had remained with this technical change in the law, the VVD could have lived with it. The VVD respects judicial decisions. We have always advocated that what goes wrong in implementation should be adapted in implementation. The Penalty Decree, and not the Law, provides that the amount of the fines will be subject to the degree of culpability. If a person makes a mistake, this will be taken into account when imposing a fine. It didn't take a law change. The only reason the law is being amended is the motion of CDA and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u77	Mr Van Weyenberg, I give you the opportunity to intervene briefly. You will understand why I say keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u78	Certainly, Mr President, but I am really tired of this debate. I wonder if Mrs Schut herself can hear her inconsistency. First she says that the Central Board of Appeal had to amend the law and ten seconds later she is blaming other parties for that. If Mrs Schut sticks to the facts, that would help her. She just said, if you report in a year, there's nothing going on and you get away with it. That's not true. It has to be in two months. If Mrs Schut does her homework first and then writes a consistent text, she might then consider whether she wants to blame other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u79	It's obvious I hit a nerve. There are technical changes to the law, namely transitional law. The ceilings in the law are also adjusted. These are not policy changes. Those are technical changes. The substantive change is that there is an extension of the warning. The VVD disagrees. If it had remained with the technical and substantive changes, you would have had the VVD by your side, but because you yourself called for the warning to be extended, that is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u80	This will be your last interruption on this point, Mr Van Weyenberg. I would ask you not to repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u81	Mrs Schut just said something quite different than five minutes ago. She needs a lot of words for it. Apparently, she has decided that people who suffer from rules that don't work out for them are all fraudsters and that all those who want to do something for them are friends of fraudsters. I advise Mrs Schut to have her facts in order. It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u82	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u83	But I'm not getting any response from Mrs. Schut. She's just good at reading her leaves, inconsistent or not. I find that disturbing and I do not think it is contributing to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u84	Again, I think I hit a nerve. That is why, in the written round, D66 might also indicate that it no longer wants to maintain fraud if there is no intention to do so. That's what D66 indicates in the written round. It calls on the Minister to go much further than this legislative amendment. She believes that fraud really does not need to be prosecuted at all. That is only necessary if it is intentional. In that respect, the VVD will never be on the side of D66. I understand very well that D66 denies that she is the cause of this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u85	I really need to make a personal statement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u86	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u87	Anyone who knows my party's track record on social security reforms knows that the VVD wrongly quotes when she tells my party that we are friends of fraudsters. Mrs Schut puts all kinds of things in the mouth of my party and, by the way, in the mouth of many other parties. I object to that. It's wrong. Mrs Schut is wrong to quote. She knows that well, but this was apparently her rehearsed answer when it became equally difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u88	It's been noted. Furthermore, you all have a second term, in which you can express your views on this issue in detail. I propose that Mrs Schut conclude her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u89	Finishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u90	Continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u91	I will leave out a number of points, which deal with other parties, because we have had that. I'm asking the Minister if this change of law will make it possible for you, if you've been working for a year and then reporting yourself, to receive a warning. After all, I must read in the passage of the law that the possibility of warning is extended to include the possibility for people who are late but themselves. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I have another question for the Minister. Surely it cannot be that there can hardly be a fine if someone commits welfare fraud, because it may take more than two years before the fraudster can repay it. The Fraud Act is not a decentralised law. The UWV, the SVB and municipalities are implementing that state law. It is therefore also important to treat equal cases equally. I think there is a great deal of tension there. One municipality will warn more often on its own. The other no longer imposes fines if someone has a social security allowance. Where are the legal unit and legal certainty, the principles of this law, still to be sought? The VVD considers that implementing authorities should only mitigate fines on the basis of culpability and that not only the amount of fraud but also the fine based on that level of culpability should not be waived. Does the Minister agree with this? If so, is he going to ensure that municipalities comply with this? Mistakes can also be avoided by calculating income in advance with the benefit. The SVB already did this and the UWV is here, partly at the request of the VVD, also started in the Work and Security Act. The VVD would like local authorities to make payments on welfare payments. This can prevent many mistakes and then there will be no fines. That seems to me to be a good service to benefit recipients. Last year in July, we held a motion on this because it was promised that this policy would be launched. I would like to hear from the Minister what progress has been made on this. If it's necessary, I'd like to make a motion for this. There are still quite a few uncertainties in this bill. The Minister states that in the case of income fraud, a fine must always be imposed. That is why the so-called 'zero fine' would not be possible in the income schemes. At the same time, he states that there can be no penalty without guilt under Article 5:41 of the General Administrative Law Act. How do these two principles relate to each other now? If there can be no punishment without guilt, will it not comply with the duty of intelligence beyond anyone's fault, so without culpability, must it always lead to no penalty being imposed? In that case, there is de facto the possibility of a so-called 'zero fine', although perhaps it will be mentioned differently. Because it is technically difficult to achieve a final amendment to this, I have not yet submitted it. I would like to clarify the relationship between criminal law, the General Administrative Law and this law when it comes to fines. In the meantime, no one will be surprised that the VVD is against the softening of this Fraud Act. The VVD has therefore tabled an amendment to maintain the possibility of warning if there is no amount of disadvantage, as provided for in the Fraud Act of 2013, and thus to amend all the other softenings that have been added. I now respond to Mrs Karabulut's amendments. We hope that it will remain possible to maintain systematically in the case of fraud, but we fear not. Isn't the imposition of a fine in the event of a recidivism limited by local authorities taking into account their individual capacity? Will the Minister monitor separately the collection of repeated frauds and fines, so that we can see what is happening here? After all, there are no figures now, whereas the VVD has asked for them before. The VVD fears that no more fines will be collected. That is why the VVD is also opposed to Mrs Karabulut's amendments which advocate a different policy. The SP wants to respect the batter-free foot at all times. That sounds nice, but it's not. The batter-free foot is already respected. Only if someone frauds several times will the fraudster at least have to pay the fine. I think that is a very healthy starting point. This is also where people's own responsibility plays a role. If you have a small scholarship, you'll be careful you don't charge more than you have to. Fraud must under no circumstances pay any wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u92	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party believes that fraud should always be tackled firmly, including fraud involving benefits. Such fraud undermines the basis of our social security system, which is based on solidarity. This solidarity, and therefore the support to pay for it, will diminish if fraud is not punished. Moreover, benefit fraud does not get the money to the people most in need of it. The Fraud Act, which was introduced by the previous cabinet, with the official title: Law tightening enforcement and sanctioning policy SZW legislation.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Not only were real fraudsters punished, but also people who no longer saw the forest through the trees or filled out a form a day late; without pardon and with towering fines. Those fines were regularly in the thousands of euros. Because of these towering fines, people who didn't have it wide anyway, because a benefit isn't fat, even deeper away in the misery and it became almost impossible to get back on top of it. Without regard to the person, but above all without regard to the circumstances or the extent to which someone was blamed, the heel axe of the fully automatic sanctioning machine fell, as it was called. Fines were issued which were disproportionate to the offence, whether intentionally or otherwise, committed. At the time, the Labour Party expressed strong criticism in the handling of the Fraud Act and eventually voted against the bill with conviction both here in the Lower House and on the other side, in the Upper Chamber. Following the entry into force of the Fraud Act, on 1 January 2013, it immediately became clear that that criticism was true. From the beginning, the examples of insane, disproportionate and, above all, unjust fines took over each other. Colleagues from other parties and I have drawn attention to this in various ways; in debates, by written questions and by tabling motions. From the beginning, the Labour Party, but not only did it insist on adapting or relaxing the law; not for the real fraudsters, who knowingly steal money from the community, but for all those people who were unjustly severely punished and thus ended up in the drip. Also from outside the Chamber and even from the executives of the law and those who imposed the heavy fines in question, such as municipalities, came the same strong criticism of this law of the previous cabinet. Next, the Central Board of Appeal had to rule as the highest judge on the fines imposed under the Fraud Act. This one wiped the floor with the law. Moreover, the Ombudsman produced a very critical report, with the significant title No fraud, yet fine. At that time, it was clear to the Minister that the law had to be amended. It is to his credit that he has taken the necessary steps to ensure that we are able to discuss a number of significant changes to the Fraud Act today. The key point of all criticism is that the law does not take into account the seriousness of the offence in question, the circumstances in which it was committed and the degree of culpability that the person concerned may be made of that offence. A poor slob who no longer sees the forest because of the trees is punished as severely as the cooked fraud who knows exactly what he is doing and deliberately bottles the place. The core of the present bill is that this is going to change. The law's getting fairer. The Labour Party welcomes that. As far as we are concerned, the human dimension is becoming more central to the public's dealings with the citizen, even if the question is whether the citizen has complied with the rules. For me and for many other people, it is only natural to take personal circumstances into account and the question of how serious a possible offence is and whether someone can be blamed and, if so, to what extent. It is good that this is now enshrined in the law, but more is changing. The minimum fine laid down in the law, which always had to be imposed at least, disappears. That makes sense, because it does not fit in with those circumstances. These may result in a lower fine being imposed or waived. In this context, it is good that the possibility of issuing a warning rather than a fine is extended. A warning sets someone on edge, for a warned man counts for two, but without getting out of the ditch. Also the maximum fine goes on the shovel. This should not exceed what the criminal court may impose in a comparable degree of culpability. The fine is therefore much lower than it was before, if there is no intent and the situation has not been deliberately and knowingly screwed up. After it has been established that there is no malpractice, in the individual case it is necessary to determine a fine proportionate to the degree of culpability, the seriousness of the infringement and the further circumstances. For this purpose, the various implementing tools are being developed, which will be given a place in an announced new Penance Decision on the bill we are discussing today. It is good to read, for example, in the answer to the written questions I asked earlier, that the way in which practitioners, according to a ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, have to take account of someone's financial situation, is given a clear place. It's important that those handles I was just talking about get there. They are needed to maintain the balance in practice between customisation on the one hand and equality on the other hand and legal certainty on the other. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Many, not least the Council of State, have stressed the importance of this balance sheet. It is, of course, also important that the final details should be drawn up in due course. I assume this is exactly what the Minister is planning. With the changes we are discussing today, the Minister responds to the criticism of his predecessor's law. Municipalities that have to work with the law therefore talk about a considerable improvement. The other implementing bodies are also positive. These changes are in line with several judgments of the Supreme Court, as well as with the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in his aforementioned report. At least, to a large extent, because the Ombudsman also made a number of recommendations which the Minister did not accept. As far as I am concerned, this concerns, in particular, the prevention of anyone being excluded from debt relief and the continued respect for the so-called unhindered foot, i.e. that part of the income that people need to live on. Although he has already addressed this in the explanatory statement and in the written response to previous questions from a number of colleagues and myself, I am now asking the Minister a slightly different question. In what way could he shape the Ombudsman's recommendations in question? Or, according to him, is that already the case? I ask him that because, for example, municipalities are asking for it. The Minister explained their important role in his earlier answers to questions on the issues raised here, but they may think differently from what he assumed at the time. They seem to need more clarity and clarity. With Mr Van Weyenberg, I ask the Minister whether he has the idea that municipalities know that they have the space he always speaks of. Because space is what they keep asking for. Almost finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u93	Do you have a question on this point, or on the general story of Mr Kerstens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u94	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When we voted against this legislative proposal together, we also tabled an amendment together to respect the unwound foot at all times. At the time, Mrs Hamer said that the social costs of releasing the unhindered foot were high. That was one of the basic principles for the Labour Party to vote against this law. Don't you think we should take care of that now, on this occasion? Can my group count on your group's support for our amendment on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u95	At the time, the Labour Party voted in favour of two amendments by the SP, including an amendment to introduce a standard which would take into account the degree of culpability. We now see that translated into the bill before us today. It is not for nothing that I have indicated that I do not respect the unwound foot in the adjustment that the Minister is presenting today compared to the Ombudsman's recommendations. Like colleagues from the CDA and the VVD, I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to shed his light on this first. I specifically asked him if he might see other ways of meeting the legitimate feeling that you should not help people out of the ditch. Depending on the answers given by the Minister, we are going to look at Mrs Karabulut's amendment. I am in favour of this, because it is true that we voted for it last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u96	If the Minister says he's taking over, then that's fine, because I don't need to table an amendment if necessary. I tabled this amendment because it is missing. Just so I'm clear, I have the next question. Does the PvdA still say that the unwound foot must be respected because otherwise there will be major social costs? And if the Minister doesn't want to take care of it that way, does the PvdA keep the option open to vote against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u97	I have to take a good look at how Mrs Karabulut's last sentence went, but I understand her question, namely whether there is any possibility of us voting against it. I indicated that I would like to know from the Minister how he intends to respond to the Ombudsman's recommendation. The most obvious way is perhaps a passage in the text of the law, as Mrs Karabulut has in her amendment, but I would like to ask the Minister to convince us that there is another way in which the Ombudsman's recommendation on this point can be implemented in such a way that we would not have to worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u98	What other way do you think? If it is not incorporated into the law, how else can you guarantee the unwound foot?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u99	Let's wait for the Minister's answer first. It is a question that a number of other colleagues have also asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u100	You were ready for your rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u101	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Everyone, well, almost everyone is in favour of taking into account the circumstances involved in a violation and of tailor-made responses. Taking into account the circumstances, that customization, people who deal with the government also have a right in other situations, for example when it comes to looking for a job. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity of this debate to call on the Minister, together with his Secretary of State, to take this into account and to use it. Whether it is aid and guidance from the UWV or from the municipalities for people dependent on welfare benefits, too often this is based on mistrust and a "one size fits all" approach. If municipalities rightly motivate their criticism of the Fraud Act of the previous cabinet with a reference to the decentralisations which are indeed based on the idea of tailor-made work, then they must also deliver on the promise of tailor-made work contained in it in other areas. So not everyone first a week behind the garbage truck, not to teach employees skills but to discourage them. It is therefore not appropriate to allow people to fold paper flowers for a few years without any perspective. It's about getting to know people, knowing who these people are, what they can do, what they want and what it takes to get somewhere. I would like to hear from the Minister what role he sees for himself and his colleague, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, in promoting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u102	This last one sounds nice, actually too good to be true. It has been Mr Kerstens and his group, also as part of the cabinet, who has made the laws so strict that customization and human size are very often lost. Can I therefore expect an initiative proposal from Mr Kerstens on this point? I understand from his words that he too is dissatisfied with the law that the PvdA has recently voted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u103	It is raining this last year of this cabinet period, so who knows? I have already called for attention to be given to fulfilling the promise contained in this decentralisation, including in the Participation Act concerning people who are dependent on welfare benefits. I have indicated earlier in debates and by means of motions and strong written questions that I believe that more work needs to be done on customisation. The Participation Act has been put in the hands of the municipalities on the assumption that they are closest to the people, that they know the people and know who they are, what they can do and what they want. I call on the Minister and the Secretary of State to see how the principle of tailor-made work that we almost all embrace here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u104	But that is another debate at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u105	.......................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u106	I would like to conclude by saying that the citizens are confronted by the fact that the PvdA has imposed these laws on the citizen with the Secretary of State and the Minister. I would welcome it if Mr Kerstens would come up with an initiative legislative proposal. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u107	Mrs. Karabulut, that's not interrupting. These are comments that you can make in detail in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u108	I would very much like to respond briefly, not because I want to provoke a new non-interruption but because I would like to say a few words about it. The law that we have adopted in this Chamber, by the way, with 113 out of 150 votes, is precisely the key point that municipalities are supposed to take into account personal circumstances of people and provide customised services. Municipalities are closest to the citizen and for this reason the law has been laid down in the hands of the municipalities. So they have to live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-24.u109	We came here at the end of the first term of office. I thank the Minister for his presence.
