ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science and the members who have subscribed to this debate in large numbers. You know the speaking time and you see the time. I appeal to you to ensure that the debate is conducted in an orderly and substantive manner, and I am counting on your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Education prepares our children for the future. It is therefore important for education to go along with its time. At the same time, the future is difficult to predict. What do our children need in 2032? What luggage do they have most in life, in the labour market or in science? The Education Platform2032 led by Mr Schnabel has taken up this challenge and, following an extensive dialogue and consultation, has come up with the opinion we are discussing today. From this place I thank the platform for the many work. The opinion is an excellent basis for further discussion. I explicitly call it a basis, because it should not go as follows: we have a report, we pick ten people from the educational field who are going to introduce it one-on-one and that is it. This is a recipe for failure, an accident in the making, as has happened with many educational innovations in the past. This debate, this moment, determines how we shape the further process. I would find it incredibly unfortunate if we were to hang the platform's useful advice on many points like a millstone around the neck of education. D66 wants this project to be of education itself. The success of education2032 lies not with the platform, with the Secretary of State, with the Chamber or with the design team, but with the teachers who will soon have to give up on this education of the future. The Secretary of State has, as we know him, gone head-on with the introduction of the opinion. For example, he has already appointed a chairman of the design team, who, as the Secretary of State writes, has to translate this vision into a concrete design of a new curriculum. By the way, it is a matter of Mrs Geri Bonhof, of course fine, who is also mentioned in the entire letter of Parliament Geri. Well, that's very unusual, isn't it? It doesn't feel like a complete piece of cake, to be honest. That's going a few steps too fast for me. As it goes: if you walk faster than you can actually handle, you trip over your own legs; I speak from my own experience. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the advice of the platform has been poured into concrete for him. Have the frameworks been established? What room does the design team have left? Do teachers get the opportunity to respond to the final advice, and is there room for them to actually do something with? D66 prefers that renewal comes from the school and the teacher himself instead of from a design team. This way the teacher isn't hooked up. Now it is again the way the Secretary of State prescribes and appoints. D66 prefers that teachers, united in educational co-operation, make a proposal for the further development of the process and have a great deal of involvement in the final proposal. As I said, the success of education2032 lies with the teachers, who will soon be working on digitalisation, on personal formation and on the subject of working thematically. For that, teachers need one thing very much, and that is time, and thus space to work on the renewal of education in their own school and in their own classroom, or to inspire other teachers. This creates room for teachers to shape this new education. This can be done by hiring more teachers, by smaller classes or, as D66 has suggested more often, by a smaller teaching task. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he is willing to invest in education2032 when it comes to time and education for teachers. For example, more digitisation will require additional investments from schools. What does the Secretary of State mean by "phased implementation"? What aspects does he want to phase out? I come to a number of substantive comments on the report and the reaction of the Secretary of State. As I said at the beginning, it is a good basis for discussion. On the main lines, we are in favour of most of the ideas. However, we also have a number of important concerns. The first concerns thematic work. It sounds wonderful, but how are we going to ensure that it is not at the expense of basic knowledge? What does this mean, for example, for examination, such as the customized diploma? Can the Secretary of State reflect on previous attempts to work more thematically in education? This happened, for example, with the second phase, where eventually the thematic work and the work in conjunction of, for example, the exact subjects did not lead to these subjects being given in conjunction but to a fourth course being added, ANW. That does not seem to me to be the way in which the Secretary of State would like to promote coherence in this case. The second focus is personal development. That also sounds good, but it is, of course, uncomfortable in practice. What are the goals and how do you make that neutral form? Are model citizens going to roll out of the band, and who will decide what model citizens are?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u3	D66!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u4	Then we'll be out soon! Could you also get a 5.3 for person formation? We are positive about the possibility for schools to make more choices in the curriculum, the free choice. That gives room for the student, for the student's own talent, for the teacher and for the school. Especially for schools in cities, this is an outcome. Schools, parents and children can choose which focus they want to place in the educational programme. Of course, we must bear in mind that sharp profiling is difficult to relate to shrinkage. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with that? And how is the quality of education of the choice part secured, I ask the Secretary of State. I would also like to draw special attention to the VMBO. The new qualification files have not yet been introduced or the next modernisation hit is announced. How do these developments relate to each other, I ask the Secretary of State. Finally, I would like to say something to which D66 has already paid attention. The debate on the education of the future cannot be separated from other discussions: the one on the customized diploma, the one on increasing differentiation, the one on central review, the one on transitions in education and the other on competences. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to turn those buttons, should that be necessary for better forward-looking education? The future of our education is too important to deal with carelessly. Put teachers much more central in this process. Let us make it a success and not a future parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr. Chairman. "Citizens are increasingly dependent on themselves when it comes to how they organise their lives." "Whoever wants to take advantage of his opportunities in society must be able to develop as a person." "Personal formation also means that students learn to shape their emotions in an appropriate way." These are some quotes from the final opinion of the Platform on Education2032. More open doors can be seen in the broadcast of Sunday with Lubach on February 7th. That broadcast is also about previous educational renewals that turned out to be educational destruction. What did the Secretary of State think of the broadcast? Lubach also asks why Paul Schnabel became the boss of this platform. He is First MP for D66 and came up with a report on euthanasia a week after education2031. What is his expertise in education? When I saw the advice of the platform, I had a déjà vu. Less factual knowledge; more emphasis on skills; learning in domains: I know that list from ten years ago. Then it was about the new learning. Professional knowledge was from time to time. From now on, the student began to develop his own learning path. This was severely punished by the Dijsselbloem parliamentary committee??> The new learning involves major risks. Why start the new learning 2.0 now? When learning in knowledge domains, common subjects are replaced by four domains. The continued existence of these normal school courses is therefore under pressure. What happens to a profession like history, crucial in times of globalisation? Historical awareness is invaluable and it would be devastating to put this business in the trash. Does the Secretary of State share that view? By switching to a core curriculum and moving away from school courses, schools are given a lot of freedom to put together their offer. As a result, there will be a dilution and fragmentation of the curriculum, in which schools will shop casually in school courses that they want to offer. How does the Secretary of State prevent schools from showing great differences, which means that each pupil has a different final level? The desire for customization also has a limit, doesn't it? How does the Secretary of State prevent education from becoming a postmodern hutspot or a chronic project week, as Marc Chavannes writes? Education2032 also has something of a convenient diversion because in 2016 we see large classes and a high workload. However, the Secretary of State prefers to talk about education in 2032; that is much more fun than looking for solutions to all the problems of today. Of course, let there be no misunderstanding: it is possible to think about new education. I have also been calling for more attention to citizenship for a long time. But such an innovation must be considered and we have the recommendations of the Dijsselbloem Committee. He warned of a lack of analysis, tunnel vision, lack of experiments, and I therefore ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to submit this project to that review framework as well. He doesn't seem to want to, because he's continuing with a design team led by former director Geri Bonhof. I therefore advise the Secretary of State to make a pass on the spot; otherwise he will make the same mistake as his predecessors. We saw it in the second phase, the basic formation and the study house. Education2032 does have some resemblance to this: independent learning, less knowledge and distance teachers. So it's obvious. Don't make the same mistake! By the way, how does the Secretary of State look at Scotland, where the same reform has been implemented and where the workload has increased so much that teachers have rebelled? That turned out to be strikes. So make sure there's extra time. For example, go back to the 20-hour class week. Otherwise, it'll still be an air bike ride. Innovations are part of education and there is nothing wrong with looking at how things can be better, but this way there are accidents. As long as education2032 does not comply with the recommendations of the Dijsselbloem Commission, we do not agree with this path. To that end, I shall table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr. Chairman. 2032, that's 16 years from now. By comparison: 16 years ago, in 2000, we paid with guilders, we just got acquainted with the internet and mobile phones at home, and the flash drive came on the market for the first time. There were no digi boards yet and most of the time there was no internet in the classroom. What would the classroom look like in 2032? However difficult it is to look far into the future, it is good that we are thinking together about a vision of the education of the future. I thank the Platform Education2032 and everyone who has contributed: teachers, parents, school leaders, educational organisations and scientists. The vision piece is, in short, the teacher's move. Directing and ownership belong to the school and the teacher. That is what the Christian Union wholeheartedly supports. The Secretary of State adds that the renewal should not lead to uniformity. He says: It is precisely an opportunity to strengthen the pluralism and diversity that characterizes our system so that pupils and parents can choose the school and the education that best suits them. That is something that is taken from my heart, but how am I supposed to see this other innovation in education? The bill More room for new schools has an opposite effect in large parts of the Netherlands. There are no schools, but schools are falling down, schools with a strong identity. The Secretary of State's plans therefore lead not to more, but to less diversity. This report by Platform Education2032 calls for schools with a strong identity, special education, to put parents with strong shoulders under their school. In small schools, this has traditionally been the case more strongly than in large schools. I call on the Secretary of State to ensure that innovations take place in the right order. First look at funding, foundation standards and lifting standards. The abolition of the concept of direction does not create more room for new schools. The PO Council is also in favour of not starting on that side. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. A theme that is closely linked to this is citizenship and ethics. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, attention to respect, values and citizenship does not lead to a neutral final picture. After all, we do not have state schools. That's a good thing! In fact, schools should be much more in the hands of society. In fact, all schools should be special: associations in which parents co-form the identity. In the report I hardly see the role of parents coming back. I'm asking the Secretary of State why the parents are missing. Education is about heart, head and hands. That is also what I said in my maiden speech in January. I have just spoken about the heart, about ethics, identity and values. The head is discussed in detail in the report. Maybe too extensive, because where are the hands? What happened to the professionals in 2032? The analysis states that "the demand for people with craft or technical training will remain high at MBO level." Then why are these professionals missing from the educational vision? I notice that it is mainly about the so-called excellent students, the super-widely interested, cognitively established students. Our education2032 is a bit of an intellectual report after all. We miss the hands, the makers. Who's gonna produce something in 2032 and make real money and what? The report lacks half of our country, and just half of it on which we need a vision to make it future-proof. Then it's not good to say that half of them have to be able to handle a computer. Does the Secretary of State want to work with a vision that includes the other half of the Netherlands? How do we make our technical education future-proof? In this context, I would like to draw attention to the financial problems of VMBO technology training by broadening the profiles. That is really an undesirable development. The report is stuck with digital skills in 2016, I regret to say. The report deals with digital literacy. This is very important now, but in 2032 the mentioned 3D printing became commonplace, or probably again old-fashioned. The internet of things is already there in 2016. How are we preparing now? Which courses will we have in 2032? What does technical education look like? Then the teachers. It is good that the teachers will be given more direction and ownership. However, the report also calls for a broad vision of the school's tasks. Aren't we going to fill the teachers' sign with this? I would like to draw attention to the current challenges of appropriate education. Teachers are already being asked more than before to guide each pupil well. Does the same teacher have to take over the parent's educational role? Should teachers correct what parents leave behind? I hope not. We have reached the limit of what schools can take on. The workload for teachers has increased enormously. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he sees direction and ownership for teachers in combination with a broad sense of task. The report is linked to two thoughts about broadening and deepening. On the one hand, children will have to learn more about less. That's specialty. However, I also read that there must be broad areas of knowledge and an interdisciplinary approach. That's less learning about more. What is it now? Expand or deepen? It's like the Secretary of State wants to broaden and deepen. If you broaden and deepen, it becomes more. I can't draw another conclusion. Does all this end up on the teacher's board? How are we gonna do this? I'm closing up. I hope that education in 2032 will be much more of the parents, teachers and school leaders. I am convinced that Article 23 of the Constitution is still standing in 2032, with increased diversity of education, in schools with a strong identity, where children are formed into responsible citizens. I also hope that the next generations in education will continue to develop their hearts, their heads and their hands to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u7	Mr. Chairman. "Mama, programming's cool," said my daughter last week. As a proud mother, I enjoy the fact that she can do more than I can, that education prepares her for her future and broadens her horizons. I enjoy that she learns something I can't offer her, that she outgrows me. Education is the engine of emancipation. This task of raising raises major challenges, which are still topical. Despite the increase in the level of education, the division in society is persistent and does not reduce differences. The refugee issue poses additional challenges. That is why we still need to ensure more equal starting positions. We need to make sure that children meet and split up less quickly in education, that they learn to live together at school. The Schnabel Committee has simplified the terminology of Gert Biesta, namely 'qualification, socialization and subjectivity', to'skilling, dignity and kindness', and that is a fine trifle. However, in its impact, the focus is now somewhat one-sided on individual personal development. Future-oriented emancipating education works from the natural curiosity of children. It helps them find out who they are and what they want to become, and it teaches them to be proud of themselves. However, future-oriented emancipating education is not only aimed at yourself and at learning, but above all at learning to live together. It is precisely at this time that the aspect of community formation, collectivity and reciprocity is important in addition to personal formation. It's not just about kids learning, it's about what they learn. It is not just a question of how we can make all the talents of the child flourish, because crime can also be seen as a talent. So it is the more difficult question of which talents make good living and good living possible and promote. It is precisely in the post-secular era in which economic and environmental crises have highlighted the limitations of individualistic market thinking that community formation and collectivity are important. At school, children learn to work together and cope with changes. They learn to ask critical questions, find reliable information and solve problems. School is for many children the first encounter with many who are different. That brings with it friendships and confrontations. Each school should strive for a peaceful society and children should learn that anyone who is in the Netherlands may be who he or she wants to be. From respect and understanding, education contributes to ensuring that children and later adults behave with care and responsibility. We want to be a society in which children learn that we look back at each other and leave no one to their fate. This is forward-looking and emancipating education, with more attention to the person formation and also to the community formation of children and to the challenges in society and with more room for teachers to organise their lessons in order to achieve this and to achieve depth, with some of the learning outcomes of children being noticeable only rather than measurable. We therefore argue with the Platform Education2032 for a rich appreciation of a student. This must not only be about his figures, but also about the formation of his personality and the formation of the community. In doing so, there must be a rich appreciation of the education that contributes to this, not staring blindly at figures. So you shape education that teaches young people to be skilled, worthy and kind, to themselves and to their environment. The success of 2032 depends on the teacher. Let teachers be the heroes everyone looks up to. Don't enslave them of their methods. Give them back their professional space and professional pride. If we are to achieve this ambition, we need to invest in continuing training, particularly in dealing with differences in the classroom, ICT skills and curriculum development. Lifelong learning also applies in education. Once authorized is insufficient to be able to work for a lifetime. I would like to see a higher ambition in terms of the number of training schools in which schools and teacher training work together to train new generations of teachers with more learning from practical experience. What does the cabinet think about a university bachelor's degree in primary education and broad bachelors and master's programmes for secondary education that stimulate higher education? It is important that there is sufficient quality and accessibility of continuing training and that teachers are rewarded if they learn extra. It would have a huge impact on the quality of education if each team were made up of 30% master-educated teachers. What is the State Secretary's ambition with regard to teacher training and continuing training in relation to the advice of the Platform on Education2032? There is also a need for improvements in the system. Upgrading requires plenty of opportunities to flow through education. Now and in 2032 the school is not only there to learn, but also to learn to live together, and that is not self-evident. We must set up the system in such a way that we can make it happen. This requires that toddlers and toddlers learn with each other in a more playful way, without being overwhelmed by things they are not ready for, such as kindergarten tests. This requires that the early selection time for secondary education be postponed by establishing integrated child centres and broad school communities, giving children longer opportunities to develop, to accumulate training, to change annually and to obtain a customised diploma. There should also be better homework guidance and summer schools or additional language lessons on Wednesday afternoons. This is how you shape forward-looking emancipating education. What is the Secretary of State's ambition with regard to learning to live together? How is he going to achieve broad school communities and delay selection moments? Secondary education is more than Havo and vwo alone. A lot of our kids are on vmbo. We are proud of what they have shown; I agree with the previous speaker. In his response, however, the Secretary of State hardly drops the word "vmbo." Education on VMBO needs to be better adapted to follow-up and vocational education. The thinking doers of the vmbo should not break down on a one-sided emphasis on cognition and general forming subjects. It is important to continue to challenge and stimulate the student on VMBO through tailor-made education. For example, a student at VMBO can benefit much more from mathematics at havo level. The government must continue to make demands on the core curriculum. Education is of continuing concern to the government. Especially in this digital revolution, there is more value than just an iPad. So we see an important task for the government. According to Platform Education2032 and the Secretary of State, schools should be given more space, but whose school is it? As far as we're concerned, that of the teachers, the director, the parents and the children together. Those people need to determine the choice room, the depth and the depth. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Does he think that the team, together with the children and the parents at every school in the Netherlands, should draw up a vision of how they want to achieve this? What can we do? What else do we want to learn? How do we deal with differences in the classroom? It's not the school board that should decide that. It's the school itself. Education of the future motivates and forms all children in a broad sense, not only in the head but also with the heart and hands. In doing so, children must be taught to reflect on the future of themselves and the community. What they learn must be important and useful. Let children be human and not a robot. Give all the kids a chance. Fight poverty in education. The place of your cradle or which school you have visited should never determine your development opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u8	Mrs Ypma mentions a nice list of points that she considers important, but now we are talking about the opinion of Platform Education2032. This debate is also a bit meant to give or not to agree to it. I have made this an important condition: do it carefully and do not make the same mistakes as in the past. I am convinced that Mrs Ypma agrees with me, but how are we going to guarantee that? There are also concerns of people from education, who say: 'Oh dear, here we go again, just like before'. We can prevent this by using the Dijsselbloem review framework. Does Mrs Ypma agree with me that we should do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u9	I absolutely think you should do this very carefully. I think the process has gone well so far. I would like to praise the Secretary of State for the way that has been handled, with a great deal of involvement of teachers. Those are the people who have to do it. I would also like to see this in the future of this process. I think it is a good suggestion from Mr Van Dijk to put this along Mr Dijsselbloem's measuring bar as well, so that we put it carefully and properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u10	That's good news. We all note this, but the point is that many teachers say: innovations are absolutely beautiful, but then give us the time and the means to do so. That's what Dijsselbloem says with a thick line underneath it. Without time and resources, innovation is by definition a destruction. Does Mrs Ypma also want to look at this and give teachers more time structuralally to implement this sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u11	That's a very interesting suggestion. I am very much in favour of that. We need to look very closely at how we achieve this and how we ensure that teachers have the time to do so and that, now and in the future, this must involve an ever-recurring cycle. But it is also good that on the one hand you have that core curriculum, of which we also have a lot to say nationally, and on the other hand you have the choice, of which you have something to say per school. I just said, "Whose school is it?" It's not from the school board, it's from the teachers, the director, the parents and the kids together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u12	I wasn't 100% sure if Mrs. Ypma was ready, but I have a question for her. How does Mrs Ypma of the Labour Party view the draft committee that the Secretary of State introduced to the Chamber yesterday or the day before yesterday in a cat bell? Is this how we should design the national curriculum, or does Mrs Ypma, who has just mentioned teachers, perhaps have any other thoughts on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u13	I have my doubts about it. I would therefore like to join Mr Rog; perhaps today the Secretary of State would like to explain a little more precisely what he means by that design team. In any case, I believe that teachers should be at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u14	I'm very happy about that. As far as the CDA is concerned, there will also be a role for the Education Co-operation, but I will propose that later. How does Mrs Ypma appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State has already indicated that the members of that committee must all continue to sign properly within the frameworks and boxes of the Schnabel Committee? They are people who have already been proven in practice to think exactly like Paul Schnabel. How does Mrs. Ypma appreciate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u15	I think Schnabel started this whole process. The future must not therefore already be fully defined. New insights must also be involved, because that is precisely what we are talking about in terms of forward-looking education. I think that we should offer the opportunity to do so and that the Education Co-operation would also be the appropriate organisation for this, as we also want to put down the teacher register. Both the content and keeping track of your skills will then take place from the Education Cooperation. This way you really give teachers their professional pride and control over their profession back. We also discussed this at length this morning in the debate on the workload in education. I think you're gonna wrap the circle around it. So Mr Rog and I are on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mr. Chairman. The GroenLinks Group appreciates the report of the Platform on Education2032. It is no easy task in the Netherlands to find something of education without becoming the playball of so many views and thoughts, which are posted with great determination and ferocity, that it is already completely torn apart before the ink is dry. You don't know what the world looks like in 2032, but of course we know some things. In any case, our group notes positively that a number of social trends are clearly recognised and recognised by the Education Platform2032. I am 54 years old and it is 50 years since I was allowed to take the first steps in Dutch education. I'm a bit of an old father: of my two children, one is at the age of primary education and the other is at the beginning of secondary education. Despite all the discussion about educational renewal, I have to say that the education that my children receive does not differ substantially, either according to content, methodology or the way in which the school is organized, from the education that I myself have enjoyed. This would in fact deny that in that half century society has changed so much that at least there could have been reason to introduce more innovation into education than has been the case. In this respect, this report could make a useful contribution to change in the curriculum. What is pleasant for us is that at least the committee has not fallen into the trap of large-scale system changes. The report does not, de facto, propose a change in the system. This does not mean that we do not think that there should be any change in the system, but it is good not to emphasize it. It should be, and fortunately it is, about the content of education. What the committee is not suggesting, or very side by side, are the methods of education. It would be strange to call it a blind spot, because it was not the commission's mission either, but it is important to explore this further, because there should be a clear relationship between the content of education and the methods used in education, especially in view of the enormous variety of possibilities that exist for this. According to GroenLinks, education is primarily intended for the personal development of a student. This personal development cannot be separated from social development. A human being cannot function in relation to his fellow human beings. You have to be able to expand. You need to learn how to work together, to be challenged. You need to learn to think critically and you need to have the chance to find out who you really are and what you would like to become, what you would like to do in life. That is the main issue, and not whether it is driving our economy forward, certainly not in basic education, because we believe that this will work itself out. This means that the education system must have a high degree of flexibility, at least in matters that we have discussed before. It can't be that the simple school advice in grade 8 of the primary school determines your further education career completely and you're poured into a mold that you can't get out of anymore. That is the opposite of what we hear in Schnabel's report, which does provide scope for tailor-made and socially oriented education aimed at development opportunities. We welcome the fact that, in addition to the development of knowledge, the Committee's opinions focus on personalisation and, of course, on social education. It is good to reduce the mandatory basis of the core curriculum in order to give more space to schools to develop their own vision and thereby promote diversity in education, and to give more space to parents, teachers and the school as an institution to build their own ideas. Making choices for key subjects such as citizenship can be supported by my group. Give teachers and schools the room to organise the educational supply, so that there is time for deepening and broadening. But in particular, in the reaction of the Secretary of State to the report, there seems to be a catch. Does the Secretary of State agree that the level of scrutiny in education can also be considered? After all, it cannot be that you are working on the educational curriculum, but that you would not want to change anything about the final examination issue. In any case, the Secretary of State has given us that impression. We would very much like to have a reaction to that. If he takes this advice, then he takes it entirely. Then he must also offer that space and also think about a more limited role of central final assessment. There was a commotion about the decision of the chairman of the committee to teach English from group 1 of primary education. Let us be clear: in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the language English is such an integral part of our society and so necessary that it makes perfect sense to anchor English in a structural way in primary education. This does not alter the fact that we think there is still a question of how and from what year in primary education you will do exactly that? It should not be the case that it is just stacking and that it contributes to the stress and test pressure on very young children. We would find that an extremely negative effect. In this respect, the question may be asked: if you are going to teach English in primary education, where is that going from? It is not the case that children are eating out of their noses in primary education. My experience is that this pressure is already high in primary education, with a lot of school work as well as pieces of work, book reviews, lectures and what's more. This is even more true in the case of the United Kingdom. If you want to give citizenship formation a central place in the fixed core curriculum for all layers in the vo, where does it go from? It's okay to think about it. Finally, I come to implementation. Renewing education takes extra time for teachers and schools and therefore also costs additional resources. There must be room to invest in the broadest sense of the word. Any innovation in education which is carried out without providing resources and resources is doomed to death. That innovation will not come about. As far as teaching methods are concerned, I have already said that it is important that, at the stage that is now taking place, a great deal of attention should be paid to teaching methods which are in line with the current thinking on curriculum development. Can the Secretary of State also instruct this or another working group on this subject? Flexibility and care in the implementation of this whole are a guarantee. A number of speakers have already mentioned this. I agree with that. Taking over-hasty steps, taking too many top-down approaches instead of the bottom-up approach that appealed to us at the Schnabel Committee: that could ultimately bring the good result to its opposite. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, I had a recently graduated geography teacher visiting me. He was right to tell me, with pride, that he had developed a digital application that allowed students to discover the world in an interactive way. He had taken on this task because his school was still working with stencils for topography on which the border between East Berlin and West Berlin had been removed with Tipp-Ex. This is just an example, but it is a sign example that I am using for this discussion today on the new curriculum in education. The world is changing faster and faster, but the content of education is not automatically changing. So it was really time to look back at what students learn at school. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State has initiated this discussion. The enthusiasm, involvement of thousands of pupils, parents, teachers, school leaders and others in this process deserve a great compliment. This tastes like more as far as I'm concerned. That is also what must be done, if the Netherlands is to keep up in an ever faster changing world. Education must provide children with a basis for their future, in which not only the reproduction of knowledge but also the creation of connections in that knowledge is central. In the future, students' talents and ingenuity must be the starting point of the education programme. The school of the future must not let students fear the robot, but let them mill it. I would like to thank the committee. She wrote a final opinion in which, as far as I am concerned, they found the right balance between new developments in education, such as digital literacy and attention to cross-skills, and the fixed starting point of a fixed core curriculum, which is the same for all schools and which makes primary education more compatible with secondary education. Moreover, we are pleased that language and calculation are given a prominent place in it. For example, this core curriculum provides much more guidance in primary education than the current abstract defined core objectives. On the other hand, it offers scope to establish links and to offer the deepening and broadening that is often lacking in the current situation, especially in secondary education. Our education should not only teach our children knowledge, but also teach them to live in Dutch society. The report entitled 2 worlds 2 realities reveals a problem here. For many young people of a different origin than the Dutch, who have often been born in the Netherlands, the fundamental values for us, such as equality between men and women and freedom of expression, and the fact that we do not discriminate, seem to have no meaning. Citizenship in the new core curriculum is an opportunity to take a step in this, but it must go beyond a lesson on the importance of the democratic rule of law and social responsibility. This course should also be about the fundamental values in our country and why those of our country make the Netherlands. The introduction of citizenship gives teachers who do want to but may not dare or can use the tools to engage in this discussion with their students. That is why we ask the Secretary of State to ensure that the Dutch values form the foundation of the new profession of citizenship and to give them hands and feet together with teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u18	Mrs Straus of the VVD indicated that young people with a migrant background who were born and raised here would not accept our standards and values. I wonder what she's leaning on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u19	On the report 2 worlds 2 realities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u20	I assume this is not my second interruption, Mr President. I'd still like to have a little more clarity. We know the report 2 worlds 2 realities. There is talk of a gap between those in Mrs Straus's terms, because we have abolished these terms: immigrants and indigenous people. But why has the VVD been constantly emphasising lately that it is up to one group and doesn't look at the other group at all? Why are we not talking about absorption capacity in the Netherlands? Why are we not talking about increasing discrimination based on racism? Why does the VVD repeatedly send out the signal that the problem would lie with one group, while it completely denies that there is a problem with the other group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u21	Other discussions, including those on labour market discrimination, have indeed discussed the points raised by Mr Kuzu, but I am now talking about citizenship. Citizenship is about how we live together in the Netherlands. So we think it is important that children who live in the Netherlands, of whatever origin, live together according to the Dutch values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u22	That's exactly the point. The issue of citizenship, in our view, ensures that labour market discrimination, which we have been talking about in this country for 36 years, is finally resolved. I note that the VVD is taking a clear line, but that is in line with the call made by Prime Minister Rutte: Muhammad must fight in the labour market. The VVD looks away from that completely and sends the wrong signal to society. It is not about Muhammad or Jan, but also about employers who deliberately discriminate in the labour market. I regret that when it comes to the future of education, the VVD is once again sending the wrong signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u23	I haven't heard another question, but as far as we are concerned, there is no wrong signal at all. We are talking about the content of education here. We would like to shape citizenship, much more than is currently the case, so that students from all backgrounds can speak with each other in the classroom and a teacher has the tools to do so. That is not the case at the moment. Basically, the VVD embraces the report, but I still have a few questions. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether schools can also make choices compulsory for all their pupils. In the border region, for example, the German language can be crucial for your future. Can a school take this course on a mandatory basis? The report hardly goes into the vmbo. Mr Bruins and others also spoke about this. But the vmbo is also part of this opinion and especially very important? As far as the VVD is concerned, we are at least going to design the working methods of the new choices in VMBO, which are created there in co-creation, as a good example in the elaboration of the choices from the advice. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Schools will have to ask themselves how to give the new curriculum hands and feet. However, there are already schools that put education2032 into practice. Does the Secretary of State see a role for these educational pioneers? We are doing the renewal of the curriculum in the interests of today's and tomorrow's pupils. In order not to lose sight of the student's gaze, I ask the Secretary of State to set up a student sounding board group which periodically reflects on the further development of this opinion. Today's debate takes place on a broad basis. The Secretary of State can imagine that within our party there are still a number of wishes for the further development of, for example, movement education, make-up education and financial education, as well as more attention to entrepreneurship, the importance of knowledge about our colonial past and the importance of cultural education. I'm sure the Secretary of State can imagine that. How is the Secretary of State going to keep politics involved in the follow-up? I'm rounding up. According to the VVD, the curriculum discussion is not a one-time thing. That's what the Education Council noticed earlier. I ask the Secretary of State to think already about a way to bring about periodic renewal of this curriculum. The VVD considers it very important that teachers receive sufficient input. A number of colleagues have already asked for this to be invested, for example, in the Education Cooperation. That seems to us at least to be one of the partners in which you could shape this, bearing in mind the example of Ontario, Canada. There one together periodically gives shape to the curriculum and the teachers feel real ownership in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u24	This was the end of Mrs Straus' term. There are still a few word messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u25	I ask Mrs Straus the same question I asked Mrs Ypma. Does she agree with me that we should avoid accidents? Mrs Straus has every right to welcome this route. But I'm saying that before you go down a road that raises a lot of resistance, you need to check whether that road meets important conditions, such as acceptance, time and financial resources. Does it share the view that we should apply the Dijsselbloem review framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u26	Yes, I certainly think we should apply the Dijsselbloem review framework. One of the reasons why I think that framework applies very well to this proposal is that we are talking here about the content of education. I believe that the Dijsselbloem Committee has also made a recommendation on this. That is precisely what we should be getting involved in. Then we can very well allow their introduction into the field to take place at different speeds and different ways. That is why I call for the use of exemplary schools. They already work like this, but also there are different variants. You have schools that look very extremely only at the individual learning needs of the child and arrange the whole program around it. You have other schools that do this much more modestly. They already work with more cross-cutting movements, but there are even more traditional forms of education in these schools. As far as I'm concerned, they're all fine and every school in there has to make its own choices. Today we are mainly talking about the content of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u27	I have a bit of the idea that Mrs Straus is already talking about experimenting and wants to see how the implementation is going. Actually, I'm talking about today. We are holding the main debate today. The Secretary of State would like to continue with his design team in high-speed rail transport. I say be careful, because you must now ask yourself whether this is the right direction. You have to test that now, so before you swim in a trap where you can't swim back out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u28	That's two things. Mr Van Dijk asked me a question about the speed of implementation. I indicated that this implementation can be done at different speeds. I have seen thousands of people stirred up in this discussion. We have really hit something in educational country, which has really triggered something not only with teachers, but also with all kinds of other people involved in education. That's not a good Dutch word. At least we touched something, which made these people so enthusiastic that they actively interfered in the discussion. This positive energy must not be lost in the follow-up. That means you have to do it carefully and with support. In addition, you need to think very carefully about how you are going to do that, to ensure that all parties retain the first energy that has now been released in the follow-up process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u29	I have a question for Mrs Straus about the fields of knowledge. When I talk to teachers, I never hear them say: Mr Rog, you are in the House of Representatives, you can abolish the subject of history, because we would like to place it in a domain of knowledge. Does Mrs Straus have the impression that this is a wish that is widely supported in the field of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u30	I understand very well that the history teachers will initially feel that way. However, I think history is going to be much more important than it is now. Mr Grashoff mentioned that education has not changed so much. I'm on the same page. We went to school with our backpack, had a program of seven hours in a row and hop from one room to another. We followed one course after another, without any consistency between the subjects. There was that connection. If you thought carefully, you did understand that in social studies you got certain subjects that were treated in another year in history and that came back in economics and geography in a different way. However, you had to make the connections yourself. You weren't helped by the teacher to make those connections. I think that the new way of working, which has already been introduced in several schools in the Netherlands, can really help to give more meaning to education. As a result, students will hopefully be more motivated to follow education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u31	The Secretary of State or Mr Schnabel has also set the example of a school where the WEN course exists, a combination of mathematics, English and Dutch. Apparently, it's already possible. Should we enable these knowledge domains in the sector, or should we impose them on the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u32	The point is that we want to encourage this development. Today's and tomorrow's major issues are almost all multidisciplinary. In the Chamber we often ask about all kinds of subjects which ministry they belong to. Usually we come to the conclusion that they do not belong to one ministry, but that you have to look at them in different ways. It's very complicated to organize. I see great parallels with education. If you want children to think about food scarcity, energy issues, health issues or social disturbances, you can't do that in one course and in one lesson, in splendid isolation. That's not a good Dutch word either. That's what you have to do in conjunction. A school can to a large extent make its own choices in the way it wants to shape that cohesion. One school will focus more on technical issues, the other will focus more on cultural issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u33	It is clear that Mrs Straus has learned English at an early age.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u34	I don't think that's too bad. I didn't get English in elementary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u35	She's just a language miracle. She also speaks German.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u36	I will use the following expression in German.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u37	My question is about something else, namely the draft team that the Secretary of State envisages. There are no less than four teachers who are allowed to cover the entire primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u38	Represent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u39	Thank you. However, I also hear Mrs Straus say that she thinks it is important that this operation, this renewal, belongs to the teachers. I have made a suggestion for this, as have Mr Rog. In fact, we have a profession in the Netherlands in the process of becoming an educational cooperative. Our idea is to look at that, instead of creating a loose, floating company again that will do this work for the teachers. What does Mrs Straus think of the idea of putting it in the hands of the Education Co-operative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u40	I think that one of the key success factors for this movement to succeed with the new curriculum is that teachers experience that they matter in the elaboration and in the design of this discussion. In any case, the Education Co-operation suggests that it is of, for and by teachers. I think the cooperative is a very important partner to involve in the drafting of this opinion. How exactly that relates to the Secretary of State's design team is a good question to ask him. That's what I'm doing here. Nor have I cited the example of Ontario in Canada for nothing. There they have also set up an organization, a bit similar to the Educational Co-operation but then on a Canadian basis. It really represents education there and ensures that the debate on what children should learn is held periodically, in my opinion every two years. That infrastructure makes teachers feel like they own the system and recognize what's happening in it. In the long term, I would very much like to have something like this in mind for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u41	So do I, but it could be a choice of the Education Cooperation to set up such a company. Now it's the Secretary of State's choice, in advance. With that he actually says: nice that the Educational Cooperation, that profession is there, but I leave it for a moment and under Geri's direction we go now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u42	Mr Van Meenen, let's just ask the Secretary of State how he thinks the design team is related to the Education Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u43	Mrs Straus, perhaps Mr Van Meenen can finish his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u44	We will, but I'm also curious to see how Mrs Straus looks at it. It now gives the impression that these two can exist side by side, that they consider it important that teachers are represented and that this is done in the design team with no less than four teachers, and in one way or another through the Teaching Cooperation. But isn't that doomed to fail in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u45	No, I don't think so. The design team is still at a very early stage. We give suggestions, questions and requests to the Secretary of State. Let's ask him this question first. Indeed, I think it is important that teachers feel sufficiently represented in this whole and that they feel sufficient that they can contribute to it. It should not only be about teachers, but also about students; I have also made a proposal for this. Let's just wait and see what the Secretary of State has to say and see how he sees it. Maybe then we can figure out how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u46	I hope Mrs Straus is not already very attached to the fact that there is a design team.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u47	No, I am particularly committed to making progress in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mr. Chairman. It is good to talk periodically about the curriculum and whether existing core goals are still met, but the CDA has also opposed an imposed state curriculum, didactic news-making and a crackdown on individualisation of education since the Schnabel Commission was set up. The CDA welcomes the recommendation to create a core curriculum, which includes, in addition to language and arithmetic, English, digital literacy, knowledge of the world and citizenship. We are satisfied with the fact that in the final opinion, English no longer appears as a compulsory course for children. The CDA therefore does not want any compulsion or urge to subject children to formal learning. In the report we lack the positive focus on the free play and the conditions for education for preschoolers. They are just so important for a successful continuing learning line from preschool to school. For example, we also lack the most necessary deepening of craft skills and links with professional practice for VMBO students. Why not recommend combining part of the curriculum with work in professional practice, for example? A large majority of students do not belong to the cosmopolitan elite and they also deserve a full curriculum, which prepares them for work and society. For students in the border region, this future could be in Germany, for example. Could we not make an exception for compulsory English in the border region and replace the German language? Customization, cross-skills and individual learning lines; it appears to be the new sacred grail in education. I'll have the fear of the study house and the new learning coming back to me. It is always about the individual pupil, the individual learning pathways and an individual future. The CDA sees the future of students not individually but in relation to each other; not only their own future, but a future in our society. That is why we also support this focus on citizenship. We want room for philosophy, religion, moral formation and the transfer of values and norms. We are concerned about the current state of education. This cabinet has already abolished the social internship. And at the moment, even the survival of a valuable profession as history is at stake. The CDA is critical of the recommendation to shape existing subjects thematically or from knowledge domains. What is the scientific basis for this and what exactly are the problems to be solved? Leave this to the schools! As far as the CDA is concerned, a thorough knowledge transfer in 2016 but also in 2032 remains the core task of education. The Dijsselbloem Committee also warned and advocated eight years ago, just as the CDA is still doing today, for an explicit recognition of the teaching-eductic freedom of schools. In addition, the Dijsselbloem Committee warned that scientific support was often lacking in this type of education renewal. Does the State Secretary believe that that scientific basis is now under this report? It is precisely for the sake of pedagogical-eductic freedom that the CDA does not see anything in setting up a state committee that is going to further shape the curriculum, especially since the Secretary of State even before we, as a Chamber, have exchanged one word about the report, has indicated that he deliberately chooses school leaders who have proved exactly how to colour the Schnabel doctrine. To what extent can this draft committee deviate from the report Ons Onderwijs 2032? Will she feel free to be open to criticism from the education of this report? Why don't we just leave this curriculum development to the profile organisations, the professional associations or the Education Co-operative? The government can then simply fulfil its task, namely to adapt the core objectives. That is clearly where the legal task lies. Yesterday, a law was passed in the First Chamber stating that the inspection of schools can only assess their suitability. We therefore warn against the Secretary of State's ambition to make the renewed curriculum subject to review, examination and inspection supervision, as he is threateningly writing in his letter to the Chamber. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is quite clear that only the core targets are part of the robustness requirements, not the rest of the curriculum. So let us control ourselves as a government and focus on interventions that we do know are working and which international research also shows beyond doubt that it leads to good education, namely investing in the quality of teachers. We need them now and in 2032.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u49	Mr. Chairman. Dutch education belongs to all of us, but above all to our children. It's them we all do it for here. My two children are in 2032 24 and 25 years old. Everything they learn now must also be of value. They must now acquire the skills to contribute later to our society, to be resilient and to be able to claim their place in this society. As a father, I work on that every day of my life, and I don't always get it right. As a politician, that's my biggest motivation. Today we are discussing the final report of Platform Education2032. DENK agrees with many of the opinions in the report. The motto More about less, however, concerns DENK. In some cases, more is needed, for example on discrimination and racism, I say to Mrs Straus, who is not present at the moment. The world is changing and the Netherlands should change with it. Economic relations in the world change. Countries outside the European Union are gaining influence for our country. In the future it will therefore be increasingly necessary to speak Chinese instead of English, to speak Turkish instead of German or to speak Portuguese instead of French. This requires some of our education, as a trading country. Does the Secretary of State recognise that, in addition to English, early education in other foreign languages is therefore desirable? Will there be room for more foreign languages in the choices? Will there be room to experiment with this in the learning labs? Does the Secretary of State share the view that learning a second foreign language is a must? I'd like a response. In addition to more attention to languages, there should also be more attention to migration history and our slavery history. Only 40 of the 96 school books since 1980 discuss the Dutch role in slavery. If they do this, the term "racism" does not exist. It is not for nothing that the United Nations put our finger on this in 2015. Many young people do not feel Dutch, because they do not learn that their ancestors have helped build this country. We therefore call for attention to be paid to the shared past of all Dutch people, because learning from each other's history connects. This is urgently needed in our pluralistic society. Does the Secretary of State recognize the challenge in this area? Does he share the view that migration history and slavery history deserve a prominent role in education? I'd like a response. Then I come to civic education. It is very important that students learn to deal with issues such as democracy, diversity and human rights. Unfortunately, however, things are not going well in this area. What will the Secretary of State do with citizenship for the completion of the design team? Does he share the view that citizenship formation should ultimately be a key objective with possible central review? I'd like a response. DENK understands that the focus in the Design Team2032 will be on practical experience and curriculum expertise. We also attach great importance to parental involvement. In fact, for broad support, the involvement of parents is simply necessary. What does the Secretary of State think about this? How is he going to involve parents in designing the new curriculum? I'd like a response. A new curriculum requires renewed review and renewed teacher training. A choice requires a new balance between central and decentralised review. More ownership of teachers simply requires education. We believe that designing the new curriculum should go hand in hand with designing and experimenting with new testing and teacher training. What does the Secretary of State think about that? How will the Secretary of State involve review and teacher training in the upcoming design phase? Will there also be room in the learning labs to experiment with teacher training and with testing? I'd like a response. I'm rounding up. Good and future-proof education is important to all of us. So dare to think forward-looking. Dare to be responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u50	Mr. Chairman. This is an innovation in education which nobody feels the need for. In Rutte I, which the PVV tolerated, it was the starting point to finally leave education alone. We saw that shocking innovations only led to chaos, unrest, huge peaks in workload and uncertainty. That's all you don't want in education. Even now, no question came from the schools or from the Umfeld for further innovations, but this Secretary of State had no message. In the last year that the cabinet sits to the maximum, something had to and would happen, preferably something big and compelling, almost in the tradition of glorious France, where presidents would like to leave a grand oeuvre for the generations to come. If there are no ideas from the field, then the Secretary of State simply writes a contest where everyone can participate. And then those ideas will come along. There are thousands of self-appointed educational innovators with great interests in this small country. The chimney of all those consultants, pedagogues, didacticians and researchers must of course also smoke. It is no way of working to want to rule over your grave in this sought-after way with ideas no one wants and to be searched for through Twitter and Facebook. In the end, I call that poverty of ideas. I am deliberately saying that the Secretary of State wants to rule over his political grave, because if the government guides this plan through the Chambers, we will be stuck with this direction of thought until 2032, and that is not good. During the budget debate, I raised our objections to the monocultural nature of the main educational system. Again and again we see Presidents of this monoculture of policor, cosmopolitan and progressive thinking, a monoculture that preaches multiculture. It is not surprising that we, the PVV, therefore speak of agitprop. As long as the idea of the cultural right suffers from a cordon, here in the Chamber, but also in the media and in all that educational gremina, as long as there is no multiform composition of that gremina, we will continue to mention the lack of representativeness. Now we have another president who, like all the other presidents of domes, thought he had to speak out against Pim Fortuyn at the time, and is therefore a proxy opponent of the PVV. I would like a reply from the Secretary of State, if he can handle it, because until now such questions have never been answered by me, while I ask them on every occasion. I said it before. The advice is full of open doors. ICT will play a greater role in education in the coming years. Well, that's been said for decades. It's a gratuite fix. At the same time, it is full of ideological struts, as was the case with competence-based education. The platform is joyfully embroidering on the plates of 1968, of course retalated for a contemporary audience. My next objection is that the recommendations in the final opinion of the Platform on Education2032 have been tailor-made for the privileged children of the elite I am thinking of D66, GroenLinks and VVD and the homogeneous white education they usually enjoy. For all these other groups, such as the children of the lower social classes, from multicultural districts or immigrant children, the bar to elevation is raised again, because precisely those groups need clarity and structure. Moreover, with even more emphasis on all those soft skills the boys in general will be put even more at a distance. Of course, the PVV agrees with parts of the platform's vision. For example, we share the view that pupils should learn basic knowledge and skills in a profound way. However, we differ in terms of more about less. That is a cheerful slogan, but it has to hide the fact that the undressing of teaching time, as has been happening for years, is avenging here. The supply is tailored to the reduced number of teaching hours. You might as well say less about less. For example, when it comes to the platform, we simply throw overboard the mandatory second and third foreign languages, while there is a shortage of workers who are at least one of the local languages French or German powerful. The Dutch-German trade flow amounted to 161 billion euros in 2014. Meanwhile, much more attention is advocated for the English language, while Dutch children internationally speak good English, read and write. Economic and social considerations do not seem to be balanced here. We want German back. How does the Secretary of State view this? The platform and the Secretary of State aim to achieve a better balance in the main objectives. In reality, there is less room for knowledge development, for the benefit of personal development and social equipment. The opinion recognised the importance of young people learning to know and subscribe to shared values through the reduction of traditional links and mass immigration. What I miss in the recommendations is the lack of awareness of the value of our Leitkultur. Our Western standards, values and traditions must be guiding in education again. This includes the proud history of our nation state, the pride of our achievements. This offers a future for the student, for the native, but especially for the immigrant. The Secretary of State writes in his response that there is an evolution and not a revolution. But the advice of the platform suggests profound changes. The PVV sees nothing in scramming all these different subjects within the three learning domains. Of course, in some cases there can be cross-cutting work. However, that is already happening. Note bene on my hbs already did. As far as we are concerned, the individual subjects must be retained. No more system changes. In the field of history, for example, chronology is of great importance in order to be able to place historical and current events. However, we fear the further development of thematic education on the basis of social issues. This renewed theme education will result even more than today in a fanatical political content on topics such as slavery, discrimination and sustainability. This will be a further strengthening of the "way with us" thinking that is already so mainstream in our education. Finally. The characteristic three r's of calm, cleanliness and regularity that we once had in education are replaced by constant unrest and chaos. It doesn't help students and teachers. Leave the schools alone. Will you stop with the fucking refreshment? Make improvements with small steps, only where it is necessary to streamline and adapt education to the demands of a new social context, for example in the private sector. There is no company to be found that changes the helm completely every few years. Then why do we do this over and over again in education? Cabinet, Secretary of State, stop this miserable project. That is my appeal to you, and listen to good advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u51	Rest, cleanliness and regularity, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u52	They're very important, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stick to that. That's why I went into politics. I naturally share Mr Bertema's opinion on the chronology in the field of history. That was once exactly the reason to set up the committee that made the history canon of the Netherlands. That canon is really about Dutch history where the chronology is back in. Can I conclude from what Mr Bertema said that he is happy with that canon and that he wants it to be preserved for education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u53	That canon was a very good start to get the beautiful subject of history back on the agenda. However, I hold my heart. I am glad to hear tonight that more colleagues are afraid that this will be watered down in the great domain thinking again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u54	Of course I am pleased with that, as one of the co-actors of the canon, I can tell. I was Vice-President of that committee; that is no secret. As Mr Beertema embraces the canon so warmly, he also embraces some of the windows in it. The canon has 50 windows. One of these windows is slavery as part of our past. Another window, a bit more recent, includes the colorful society. Can I make it clear that Mr Bertema also thinks that these are subjects that belong in the history of this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u55	Of course! I do want to get rid of that overfocus, as if slavery had always been our fault. That's what it is. The crusades were our fault, slavery is our fault. The slavery that still exists in some African Islamic countries, or which exists de facto in Saudi Arabia itself, is never addressed. I would like our students to learn that our Western culture is the only culture in the world that has come to the point where it has formally abolished slavery. That's quite an achievement! The emphasis should be on this, on the freedom of Western culture, on individual freedom, but also on individual responsibility, on the fight for equal rights and so on. That is usually lost in that enormous politically correct terror, as I would almost call it, which is always found in education. We should get rid of this "way with us" mentality. Perhaps Mr Van Meenen should have taken this into account in his windows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u56	This is a little entrapment, so I will give Mr Van Meenen the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u57	He was vice-president of that committee. The chairman was directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u58	It is here that Mr Beertema is not prepared to do the content of those windows, because what he fears is not at all the content of those windows. They are intended in particular for children in primary education. In the windows slavery is simply described as part of our history. That's it. We must not close our eyes to this. Similarly, the Constitution is a window; Article 1 lays down the freedoms and achievements that we have. The canon simply gives a chronological description of our history. That includes black pages. This is one of them. It's not a policor story in the sense of "we actually had good slavery, but everywhere they still have it is wrong slavery." It's not like that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u59	I understand that very well, but perhaps Mr Van Meenen will have to explain to me how it is that all these children and young adults are pouring out of education with the idea that we are guilty of the most terrible forms of imperialism, that the West is a perfide civilization that exploits the rest of the world and that we are guilty of everything. That is the "way with us" mentality that is apparently applied to the students by all those teachers and teachers. Apparently they haven't quite noticed the windows either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u60	This is a very interesting subject, so I will give you one last opportunity to respond. I suggest that you go into conclave with each other in the suspension as former teachers. That's a beautiful Catholic tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u61	By the way, neither of us is a history teacher; let us put it first. That never prevents teachers from talking about it! The canon came into education in 2007. We started it in primary school. This means that we still have to see the first generation that has fully received the canon and is leaving education. So it is also a matter of time. You really need to take the time to put these kinds of changes in place; we might share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u62	You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u63	Mr Beertema excels in his use of words by putting terrible things in a very beautiful, eloquence way, so I would like to congratulate him on that. He talked all the time about "us" and "we." I wonder who he means by "us" and "we." Is that the PVV? Is that the PVV Dimmer? Is that the Dutchman? Is that the Dutchman with a migrant background? Who's one of them and who's not one of them? Who's "we," who's "us"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u64	I talked about the need to work, especially in education, from the Leitkultur, which is based on the Jewish-Christian-humanist tradition. That's the "we." We, that is the dominant culture that is present in this country, but also in Germany, also in Flanders and also in Saudi Arabia or Turkey. You should know everything about the Leitkultur in Turkey. It is placed very firmly, as you know, in the media and also in education. We're talking about our Leitkultur now. These are the Western achievements, based on the Jewish-Christian-humanist tradition. That's "we."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u65	I always get the feeling that Mr Beertema is much better than I am aware of what is going on in Turkey, but I will leave it at that. According to Mr Bertema, this dominant culture is based on the Jewish-Christian-humanist tradition, according to the PVV. Mr.Beertema himself taught at a school in Rotterdam, where that dominant culture has changed enormously over the last few decades. That Jewish-Christian-humanistic culture is no longer so dominant. Mr Beertema spoke in his contribution on representativeness in education. I wonder if he also counts in that representativeness that the city where he was a teacher has changed enormously, that demographics have changed and that that dominant culture is very different from when he taught there. How does he want to deal with that? Does it continue to place people in boxes: us/she, dominant/not dominant? Or is it about something else: the future of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u66	I was distressed to see how the population of beautiful, rich Rotterdam, large groups of hardworking people who could stop their own pants, was replaced by a population that did indeed have a different Leitculture. Since then Rotterdam has been appallingly impoverished. It has become a huge problem area. I refer in particular to Rotterdam-Zuid. This has become such a problem area that neither the municipality itself nor the province could improve on it. That had to be a national project, so massive were the problems there. The massivity of these problems was caused by the mass immigration that has affected Rotterdam. I don't think you should blame me, but I'm not very happy about that. I would have preferred the population there to have plundered and integrated like other groups we have received here, for example the Indian Dutch, the Chinese community and the Hindu Surinamese, who have taken advantage of the achievements of the West with both hands, have studied in an incredible way contributing to our culture and to our economy and have become almost assimilated Dutch, with a slightly different colour, with a different faith. That way, too. The point is that these groups have received and shared our dominant values. And what do you see? Their level of prosperity, level of development and level of emancipation has increased enormously. Unfortunately, there are groups that don't. Those are the groups with an Islamic background. That premodern thinking that they have taken and that now in Amsterdam-West, Rotterdam-Zuid etc.... There are some gestures being made in the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u67	Please continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u68	I'll answer a question. That is relevant, also for Mrs Ypma and certainly for Mr Grashoff, who knows Rotterdam like no other. But Mr Grashoff always looked a different way; that is the problem. I think I've made my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u69	I would like to give Mr Kuzu one last opportunity to put a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u70	Mr Bertema says he is Rotterdammer. I too am Rotterdammer. My grandfather also contributed to the construction of the country. I'll give you my grandfather's example, but it applies to many more grandpas and grandmothers in the Netherlands and to many more children, grandchildren, uncles and aunts and so on. My grandfather worked in the port of Rotterdam for many years. This applies to many people with a migrant background. They helped build the city. They too have contributed to the prosperity we are living in at the moment. Does Mr Beertema put aside the contribution of those people, we are talking about the history of migration in this education debate, to talk about his Jewish-Christian and humanist values? We should talk about the achievements and freedoms contained in our Constitution. The Constitution does not state that these freedoms or achievements are based on Jewish-Christian and humanist values. No, the Constitution deals with freedom of expression, freedom of the press and all kinds of other matters. An essential point in the Constitution is Article 1. It stipulates that no distinction is made on the basis of race or religion. I ask Mr Beertema how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u71	This is a major debate. I am now being called to account for Article 1 of the Constitution. That doesn't make any sense. I'm trying to make it clear that the Islamic invasion in Rotterdam...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u72	It's about civilians...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u73	You mentioned this, Mr Kuzu, you mentioned it. I am trying to make it clear that the Islamic invasion in Rotterdam did not contribute to the enrichment of Rotterdam. On the contrary. The benefit dependency is huge. The over-representation in crime statistics is huge. In Amsterdam-West we see exactly the same thing. Everywhere Islamic young people live in large numbers, it is exactly the same. It's not enrichment. Mr Kuzu may continue to say that we should be pleased with it, but we are not. My message is: embrace our culture, make use of our achievements and share our values, then that enrichment will come naturally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u74	I give the floor to the last speaker in the first term of the Chamber, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u75	Mr. Chairman. As a former history teacher, I am pleased to be the last to speak in this first term. Where do today's preschoolers apply in 2032? What contributions will they make to the economy? That is an interesting question, of course, but the least interesting one in the debate on the content of education. Education is also about the teenager, who in 2019 suddenly wonders about the splendor of creation and whose eyes open. Or the disarming role played by a severely limited student in our society in 2025. Fortunately, the SGP can see that the opinion is indeed broader than just the focus on the labour market. The SGP expresses its appreciation for the initiative of the State Secretary and for the work of the Platform on Education2032. The reflection that has taken place has been a great deal of loosening. It has also led to many positive ideas. We therefore have a great deal of appreciation for many aspects of the opinion. I would like to mention, for example, the starting point for setting 60% in a nuclear curriculum and leaving 40% mainly to schools. This allows schools to formulate their own profile and to lay their own accents. Nevertheless, the SGP also makes some comments on the main lines. The design should focus as little as possible on the structures as well as on the content of education as much as possible. The aim is not to abolish subjects or create new fields of knowledge. The aim is to promote coherence and continuity in education and learning. Does this mean that I submit this question to the Secretary of State for Education that a school can choose to simply maintain the current classification of the subjects and make sure that there are explicitly cross-links in the curriculum? This does not mean that there is an opinion on the abolition of the current key areas. If we do not set it up in this way, the risk of failure and frustration in this process will increase exponentially. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this. Professor Biesta..his name has been mentioned before tonight...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here and there, the opinion also reflects a view on the development of history and society that is consistent with that of previous educational renewals. As a history teacher, I've been there. I suffered with it. Then innovation became inevitable and the dogma of innovation was massively subsidized and promoted. Let me give you an example. There was a commercial, heavily subsidised by the Ministry of Education and Science. That commercial meant that a young teacher was very happy to do all kinds of things, after which a conclusion came to the end. A voice with a warm and deep timbre said: education, different every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u76	That was meant to be serious, but it was indeed totally hilarious. I remember those colleagues who said: education, it was only once a day the same. It could not reach the innovators that a completely different wavelength was used. It was then about less emphasis on knowledge of facts, more attention to skills, design of core domains and cross-skills. Later we got 21st century skills. I always wonder if it's the 21st century BC or after Christ when it comes to those skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u77	The President must now say that Members must refrain from expressing their consent or disapproval.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u78	If you hadn't said anything about it, it wouldn't have been noted in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u79	In this opinion, quite frankly, I hear a bit of the echo of educational renewals from 20 years ago, from basic education around the second phase introduced in 1998. He really had to take the whole superstructure of Havo and vwo on the shovel, but was such a flop that after ten years the whole thing had to be kept under review again. Then there was a heavy repair. All this led to the creation of the Dijsselbloem Committee, which has produced an extremely valuable report on this matter which is still topical. I agree with the questions put by Mr Van Dijk on this point. So I am not saying that the opinion makes the wrong choices, although I certainly have some criticisms. However, we believe that there is a clear risk that it will be misguided. For example, no one will deny that internationalisation and social skills are important, but they do not immediately deserve the status of independent educational goals. Much better is to integrate them into certain existing possibilities. For digitisation and citizenship, they should largely be included in the existing curriculum. If an emphasis is to be placed on digitisation or on citizenship, this could be done in the curriculum's thinking, in the curriculum's design, so that the schools have a clear view of what to do. Does the nuclear programme adequately reflect the nature and status of the different subjects and components? In any event, the SGP finds it difficult, for example, to extend the current detailed reference and reference framework for calculation and language to the rest of the nuclear programme. I see that Mr Van Dijk wishes to put a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u80	Well, it's been there a long time. So if you are almost there, then Mr Van Dijk can then ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u81	I'm gonna need another minute and a half, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u82	That's not gonna work, because you've only got half a minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u83	This bell is ahead, I think. According to the platform, it is beyond doubt that English is as essential for every Dutchman as mathematics and Dutch. This alignment of Dutch and English finds the SGP difficult to maintain when it comes to the life of every Dutchman. How does the Secretary of State view this? We are considering tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. In practice it appears that schools leave a lot of space to fill in the curriculum. Teacher training must make teachers able to form their own education on the basis of the core objectives. The starting point must be not the existing teaching methods, but the core objectives. How is the Secretary of State going to give this perspective a concrete place? To sum up, the present advice contains many promises but as many risks. The next phase is crucial to whether this pathway acquires or loses the confidence of education. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give the teachers a substantial position in the composition of the design team? Mr President, thank you very much for your kindness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u84	The thanks are mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u85	This is a sharp statement by Mr Bishop. He asks the right questions, especially about the transcendent er...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u86	Skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u87	Exactly. This could lead to the risk that subjects will be removed. It seems extremely doubtful to me to do so. In other words, Mr Bishop and I see the same risks on the route that is now being undertaken. How do we prevent us from swimming in these educational innovations, as has happened in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u88	Mr Van Dijk himself has already mentioned an important aspect of the solution, namely that of involving teachers in the formulation of the curriculum. You must, of course, avoid by definition staying in a pattern that has not changed for ten, twenty or thirty years. At the same time, you use the professionalism and substantive expertise of the people who really have an insight into this. Scientists can certainly be a very valuable addition to the design team. I would minimise the role of school leaders in this process, because it is an educational process. I would therefore highlight the position of the teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u89	I fully agree that teachers should be fully involved in this. Yet you run the risk that the design team will start working with a certain team of people who are going a certain direction, who are going a little monomaniac towards a certain innovation that we may not want. Mr Bishop can imagine that. Shouldn't you say, as I have presented before, that test which direction you are going according to the demands we all embraced at the time of the Dijsselbloem Commission? At that time, he drew up very good criteria for resources, finance, scientific support and so on. Does Mr Bishop share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u90	I agree. If this draft committee is to work, it must consider very carefully the opinions contained in the Dijsselbloem report. On the other hand, if it doesn't happen, if the monomoon happens, the shore is guaranteed to turn the ship. The basic renewal in the 1990s has not failed in vain. The second phase with study house and all the bells and bells around it has failed fatally for a reason. Civil society and education themselves did not accept it. It was not at the service of the pupils concerned. That will happen if this process is not followed carefully in conjunction with the field. It is good to look closely at the framework conditions as formulated on the basis of parliamentary research led by Mr Dijsselbloem. They're still up-to-date, absolutely. For the rest, this process should take shape mainly in conjunction with the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u91	Mr Bishop said something interesting about the subject of English. I'm very curious how he sees that himself. The Labour Party thinks on the one hand that you should have the basics in order; so English for kindergarten is not one of them. On the other hand, you want all children to be able to learn English in primary school and not just the happy few who sit at an elite school where a lot of time is spent on English. How does Mr Bishop see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u92	If you already transfer English to primary education, where the necessary has to be done, as is now mandatory, you have to agree on a reference level to be reached. In fact, it often happens that in the various primary schools the level is so very different that it is easy to start at zero in secondary education. So I do see something in that continuous learning line, especially when it comes to a seventh or eighth grade. I personally would not choose to do that much earlier, but it is up to the experts to get their thoughts on that. If you do it then make sure that the quality is secure enough. I meant that I do not believe in putting Dutch and English together so tightly now, as if they were equivalent languages. I think that in particular many VMBO students will experience it as a liability if they have to do the difficult English at the same level in addition to the for many of them, especially for the doers already difficult Dutch. So I would really be very reluctant to make it a unitary sausage, a unitary model in which everyone has to fit. I also think that schools should have some room for manoeuvre in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u93	Mr Bishop, here you have a bit of avenged yourself that you have been a teacher and had no speaking time. I would ask you to give us a short answer so that we can finish this debate in order, as I requested at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u94	As a teacher I had speaking time: I had to be ready in 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u95	You know that there are other speaking times here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u96	That's a downside. I'm still getting used to that, but you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u97	We would like to help Mr Bishop with some extra speaking time with interruptions. Do I understand Mr Bishop that he wants English to be given only in the upper secondary school of primary school? And that he thinks that there should be research into the extent to which it is wise to start a second language, to English, if the basis is not yet in order? This certainly applies to children who come from a poor language environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u98	I think that's right. I am not expert enough to make a ruling on whether this should take place in the upper secondary level of primary education. Let me put it this way: I can imagine, but the basis must be in order if you are to learn a new language with fruit. If that takes the necessary research, you should take the time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u99	In the words of Mr Bishop, but also in the words of some other speakers, I tasted a great reluctance to interfere with the transfer of knowledge. Everything you make a caricature out of makes no sense. So if we were to assume that we do not have to transfer knowledge in education, but only skills, it would, of course, be nonsense. We'll agree on that very quickly. I have a brief example: I sat next to my son to practice the topography of Groningen. On the familiar, somewhat smug copy about which Mrs Straus spoke, he pointed me to the town of Appingedam and the town of Slochteren. I thought: now he knows it, tomorrow he's gonna get it in the classroom, but the relevance of learning Appingedam I can't explain to him; and if I wanted to explain to him the relevance of the town of Slochteren, I'd have to give him a whole different subject than topography. All the more so, I was thinking that we need to evaluate with each other what parate knowledge we really want to transfer in this complex information society. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that at least it is a good thing that the Platform Education2032 is probleming this by saying: you should actually go back to the amount of parate knowledge you want to transfer, because that just doesn't work if you have other goals as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u100	I do not know whether I would support this in general. When I see the development of children, I notice that at a certain stage they are incredibly good at pounding all kinds of rows, which I am surprised to look at and what I can't do in fields or roads. This can therefore be used to teach them, for example, a certain basic overview of the topography, a certain basic overview of chronology. The qualities that the children at that stage, as it were, have strengthened, must be exploited above all. There will be a phase, which is not yet the stage of 8, 9 or 10 years, in which they will indeed deepen themselves in the problem that Groningen has to deal with. However, that is another stage. At that time they need a bit of an overview of the topography of Groningen. So help your son to get the topography in his head, because that will teach him better to interpret the gas problem and the earthquake problem of Groningen. He always benefits from that. So I wouldn't be so quick...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u102	I know that examples are always very risky in debates, but I tried to give an example that you really should look critically, not if you want to transfer parate knowledge, but to what extent the parate knowledge that we now transfer in education is the same as 50 years ago, when the world has changed incredibly in those 50 years and we are, in fact, engaged in applying very outdated methodologies and pursuing outdated goals. However, I have the feeling that Mr Bishop has not taken that essence of the question entirely or perhaps has quite different views on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u103	The latter is more or less the case. I do not believe that the package of initial knowledge that has been transferred has not changed in the last 50 years. In my own career alone, in which I as a history teacher was explicitly engaged in knowledge transfer at certain times, this even evolved from year to year. I therefore do not support the statement that this has not been in motion for the last 50 years. I think it's constantly moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u104	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving fast. That's very good. I think everyone needs that, too. Primary education and secondary education in the Netherlands lay the foundation for the future of our children. This education helps students to discover their personal motivations and ambitions and later to choose a follow-up study or vocational training. It helps students to respond to the changing world and to make use of technological developments. The school also helps students to discover and develop these talents with which they will be able to make an active contribution to our pluralistic society and to the economy. Although it is difficult to overestimate the importance of education, we must also be realistic. Education has a broad social role and a broad social interest, but cannot solve all social problems, I say to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u105	Can I ask Mr Van Dijk and Mr Bruins, who are talking to each other, to listen to the words of the Secretary of State? He also listened to your words. I think that's so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u106	Paul Schnabel already said it in the conversation with the Chamber on education2032 last autumn: if we include everything we consider important in the curriculum, Dutch parents will never see their children again and those children will be in school 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That is why it is so important that choices are made. The central question is: what should all pupils really learn at school, with room for a school's own content, of course, so that they can meet life well equipped and confidently? I think it is wonderful to see that the platform has produced a beautiful, thorough and well thought-out report and that there have been a lot of discussions with stakeholders and interested parties: teachers, school leaders, scientists, students, parents, civil society organisations and companies. In these talks we talked about the content of our education, about the full breadth: from practical education and VMBO to VWO. Hundreds of debates, symposia, educational events and other meetings have always focused on what children need to learn in order to be well prepared for the future and for further education. In addition, the platform received tens of thousands of contributions on social media and hundreds of whitepapers, letters, manifestos and presentations. In my view, a stream of tweets, posts and Facebook messages and the large number of attendees at numerous meetings underline the importance that many, both inside and outside education, attach to this discussion and to the purpose of this discussion, namely to achieve forward-looking, challenging and contemporary education. I think it is wonderful to see that there is also broad support for the work of the Schnabel Committee, especially when I look at the positive reactions from the educational field itself. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, the Chamber received a letter from the PO Council, the VO Council, the Education Co-operation and the General Association of School Leaders, saying: let us now take a step further. In their joint letter, they express their full support for the course of the platform and indicate that they want to work together and quickly with a follow-up. That's why I'm very happy. After all, if we want this operation to succeed, there is one essential condition: we must support and preserve it. It would be a shame to lose the positive energy and enthusiasm that education has so far unleashed2032. Before I go into some of the concerns and pitfalls that I believe the Chamber has rightly mentioned, I would like to highlight a number of principles which I consider essential for the elaboration of the follow-up process. First of all, a renewal of the curriculum does not mean that the whole range of education in the po and vo should be put on the kicks. An important part of the current curriculum remains relevant for the long term as well. Mr Beertema indicated that: why would you change things that work well? In my view, this is not a revolution; not everything needs to be kicked. However, it is healthy to see whether we can improve or change things on parts. That's more like an evolution. Secondly, education2032 deals with the content of education. Schools are and remain free to organise education in a way that fits their profile or belief. It is right that Mr Bruins should make a point of this. Pluriformity is precisely the strength of the Dutch educational system and we must cherish it. Thirdly, a new curriculum is only a success if it also works in practice, when it is feasible. It shouldn't be a drawing table discussion. It has to be something teachers can handle, what teachers wear and what teachers themselves have contributed to. This is also why it is essential that the follow-up process should be extended together with many teachers and school leaders. Fourthly, overloading must be avoided both in the po and in the vo, by making clear choices in the follow-up process together with education. This is, of course, particularly true of the nuclear curriculum. The core curriculum should not be a Christmas tree that we are trying to create in such a way that we realize the opposite of what we are trying to do with this discussion, which is to come to the core and at the same time give room to schools for school's own choices. Finally, I would like to go into more detail about the questions put by the spokesmen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and note that this whole process requires time. That's the only way it's gonna work. It is also more time than we have in this cabinet period. So it's not like I'm trying to rule over my grave with a quickie; I think Mr Rog suggested that. I already know in advance that my successor will have to finish this later. The third phase, i.e. the final completion phase, the construction process after which your Chamber will eventually take formal decisions in terms of legislation and regulations, will be at the earliest at the end of 2017. So all I can do is take this process a step further, facilitate it, and carefully cherish and maintain the support I feel in the field of education right now and deal with it in a sensible way. I'd like answers along three lines. Firstly, I would like to comment on a number of comments on the content of the curriculum, i.e. on the importance of knowledge and on the different subjects, such as citizenship, English, personal development and professional profiles in VMBO. That's all about the content. Secondly, I would like to say a few words about the follow-up process. What is the next step we would all like to take and how do we involve the teachers? Thirdly, a number of speakers have asked questions about the framework conditions. What does it take to make this work? I think Mr Van Meenen said that most emphatically in his speech. How do we ensure that it also works in many other areas? This isn't an isolated thing. It has similarities with customization, with flexibilisation, with scrutiny, with supervision, with training and so on. Let me start with the first point, the content of the curriculum. I hear approval from the Chamber on the one hand when it comes to the broad lines outlined by the Schnabel Committee. I also hear appreciation and a warning for a number of pitfalls, but also a need to think a little bit further on a number of main lines and to think about concreteisation. Is this poured into concrete? That question was asked by Mr Bruins. That's what I'm saying at the risk of looking at the wrong guy, but then he'll correct me. Sorry, it was Mr Van Meenen who asked. There is a report which I welcome and which provides a good basis, but that does not mean that we cannot think at the next stage, that things cannot be worked out further and that the outcome of the next stage is therefore already fixed. This is a basis on which to build. The result is not cast into concrete. If there are new insights, the design team can, of course, take them into the next phase. At the same time, we must ensure that we do all the good work that Schnabel and his people have done all over again. There are some important insights about the core curriculum versus the free space and the components that should be in that core curriculum, because that has to be wider than just language and arithmetic. I think this also appeals to many people in education. I understand that a number of spokesmen indicate that they want to go a step further in thinking. I see many points of interest in the advice of the platform and will also get a place in the final curriculum design. At the same time, we must be careful to anticipate the final results too far, because it is precisely in the draft that the specific issues that need to come back to true will become more concrete. If we really want to give teachers room, then politics must be cautious and not give all kinds of assignments in advance. I'd like to drop by on a couple of cases. Mr Bruins asked whether such a nuclear curriculum leaves enough room for the identity of schools. I think the answer to that question is yes. In fact, the beauty of the Schnabel Committee's report is that it is so open about the need for diversity and pluralism. The report states that we should have a little more clarity and agreement on a number of basic elements that all children should have in all schools. As a counterpart, there should be more room for deepening and broadening for school's own choices. These two elements must remain in balance. This is also necessary in order to avoid overload, which Mr Grashoff asked for. If we are going towards a nuclear curriculum, we will have to make sharp choices, otherwise there will be no room for manoeuvre. This means that the design team will soon be told that it must clearly state what is essential in all these elements. It must be clear what all children should get with us and what is optional. So what can schools choose if they want to go one step further than the core curriculum? I now turn to the debate on the importance of knowledge, which was encouraged by Mr Beertema. Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rog and Mr Bishop have also asked questions about this. I think it's important not to see knowledge and skills as contradictions. In my eyes, they belong together. You need knowledge and with the skills you know how to ultimately convert that knowledge into practice. Cross-cutting skills, such as creativity or critical thinking, are, in my view, indispensable for students and young adults in the future. But they only get real meaning when they are linked to concrete learning content, which allows students to learn how to apply acquired knowledge. Therefore, in my view, knowledge transfer remains an essential part of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u107	I have a question about the nuclear curriculum. Several speakers have expressed concerns about this. The core curriculum consists of language, arithmetic, digital literacy and citizenship. Is it conceivable that a school should say, after drawing up this opinion, that we are abolishing the subject of history?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u108	How schools organise their courses is their choice. I note in this discussion that there is a huge misunderstanding, namely that the Schnabel Committee would have advised that the subjects should be abolished. I don't think that's the case. The Schnabel Committee recommends that more attention be paid to coherence in the development of the subjects and their content. I think that is wise, because for the superstructure in secondary education the implementation is very much determined by the final examination committee that makes the syllabi. These are often colleagues who tuck in so much, that a feeling of overload arises. The teachers at the schools themselves sometimes have the idea that for three years they are only "prepping" students to pass the central final exam. It would be a good idea for teachers at the front to think a little more about what we expect students to receive in the lower and upper secondary education in the different parts. If you do that, you can also cross-trap it. Many of the societal challenges and themes we are dealing with are now being addressed from different angles. Think of an issue like energy. You're talking about physics, but there's also chemistry. You can also approach it from geography. Wouldn't it be nice if that was developed more in conjunction than in solos? I think that is what the Schnabel Committee is proposing. Then it is up to the school itself to decide how to teach it. In my view, this can be done very well through the traditional courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u109	The Secretary of State is turning it around a little bit. He says it's possible. If a school wants to give history, it's possible. The question is, of course, what is the direction in which the report goes? The report states that the core consists of language, arithmetic, digital literacy and citizenship. Above that, and so I understand the answer of the Secretary of State, it is up to the schools to make their own choices. There's no history in that core curriculum. My conclusion is therefore that the field of history is at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u110	Mr Van Dijk now mentions only a limited part of what is in the nuclear curriculum. On top of the subjects he mentions, there are also the overarching themes, the domains as Schnabel calls them. Some of these courses fit perfectly within the domains. Schnabel says, however, that these should not be developed solitaryly, a separate course of physics, a separate course of chemistry and a separate course of history, but in conjunction. I get the impression there's a lot of enthusiasm for this. Let me give you an example. The joint trade unions for beta teachers have already indicated for the field of nature and technology that they would like to develop this together and that they have very good ideas about it. I would very much like to take away the misunderstanding that we would now decide that the subjects will end if we allow a design team to start a next phase with the Schnabel Committee's report. It really isn't. On top of the issues mentioned by Mr Van Dijk, there are also the three fields of knowledge in which elements of all subjects come back. A course such as history can simply be preserved in that sense. Several questions have been asked about citizenship. I think this is typically a theme we've been discussing in this house for three, four, five years. We all think it's very important. In fact, for a number of years it has been a necessity in the law. I say this to the three initiators who saw their bill passed in the First Chamber this week. In practice, we see that we have given very few tools to schools about what exactly we mean by citizenship. Consequently, the level at which citizenship is given in the Netherlands is sadly low. There are several international studies that show that the knowledge about state establishment is less than in many of our neighbouring countries. Also the skills how to give hands and feet to dealing with some basic values in practice could be better. Wouldn't it be good to fill this out a little bit more? That is actually the proposal that Mr Schnabel is making. Mrs Straus added something to that when she said that international treaties are mentioned and the core principles of the democratic rule of law are included, but of course you must always look at them in the Dutch context. I think that is a good addition, which I think the design team can make a follow-up. Of course, there's more to it. Mr Kuzu is quite right that the history of slavery or the history of migration should be taken into account. It's not just about the beautiful things we're proud of in the Netherlands. Our history and background is also determined by a number of things that we may be less proud of. It's not about the guilt question, but it's good that kids get it. By the way, it is in the canon of history, which is already a mandatory part of the curriculum. This is one of those elements of which you could say: this is already good and you can keep it. Mr Van Meenen asked what person formation would look like. That is also such an element of substance. Are there going to be model citizens in the Netherlands, and are we going to give out figures for person formation? Maybe we'll get the subject of personalization? I don't have to think about it. The idea of the core curriculum is not that all fixed parts should become separate boxes. I read Schnabel in such a way that he says, name where you want to go. If we want to do justice to the broad remit of education, it is not just about knowledge and skills in terms of language and mathematics, but also about the foundational education that it contributes to the personal development of pupils. Where are my talents? What am I good at? Who am I? That doesn't lead to unity sausage. In fact, that leads to self-conscious, adult students, who can think critically, who can form their own opinions and who in that sense can stand firmly with both legs in society when they are finished with school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u111	I've never done the subject of personalization. I still don't know exactly who I am and where I'm going with this. Ha, but in politics of course! I don't see any professional personalization in my head either. My concern is, of course, that the person formation, the personal development of a student, would be judged. I wondered in my speech whether it is possible for a 13-year-old to score a 5.3 for his personal formation. I know this Secretary of State is a great fan of review. As a teacher, I am not opposed to that at all, but does he think that is conceivable and does he see instruments that make that possible? Or does he think that's a horror scenario? I say that value-free, because I only have questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u112	I don't see students making central final exams; I just don't see that happening. At the same time, we all think it's very important. And if we think this is an important goal of education, then perhaps it is also good if students develop in it and teachers see how that goes with them. I think the Schnabel Committee is saying sensible things about that. She says that some things are measurable and you can test them perfectly, and that other things are noticeable. You might need to give feedback on that in a different way. Let me give you an example. In person formation we often talk about character building, about character building. A lot has been written about that, including in scientific literature. It's about properties like perseverance. It's good if students learn that they don't give up at the slightest if they're going to be in the big human world. I can very well imagine your students coaching, looking at who has that and wondering who else might be able to support you with that. That's what you see for example with 21st century skills. I hate that word, because it is often skills that were also very relevant fifteen years ago. We see that schools think this is important, that students think it is important and that it is becoming increasingly important for tomorrow's labour market, but we also see that schools are increasingly able to look at how pupils develop in this area. That's not gonna work with tests, but that's gonna happen in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u113	Then we agree. I have one more question. Precisely such a part of the curriculum "Whatever form and content it gets "" asks, like all other parts, that teachers are also able to do so. That is a part that may now be implicitly taken into account by a number of teachers. Everyone in the environment of a child contributes to the development of the person, but isn't this a typical example, also in the light of powers and the like, which we should take a very close look at? I think this applies to education2032 anyway. This raises very new questions, such as who is competent to do so and who is competent to do so. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to pick up that glove and see how we can make teachers more skilled in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u114	I say yes to this. A slightly different curriculum or what comes out of it will of course only fly if teachers are also able to give it hands and feet in the classroom. That might require other skills, too. Then we have to do some things in terms of continuing training, of professionalization. Mr Van Meenen asks if I am prepared to pay for this. I'm gonna have to. If we want to make this work later, we also need to think about how we can make the implementation a good follow-up. I would like to mention, for example, the new professional profiles in VMBO, which have also been adjusted and changed. That will only work if you also support schools in the implementation and the steps they need to take in the professionalisation of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u115	I'd like to continue at the same point. It's kind of important to me. It is good that there is citizenship education and that it will be part of the core curriculum. As far as the interpretation is concerned, the Secretary of State states that he does not want to measure by means of scrutiny but in other ways. I would like to hear something more explicit that could shape with each other. The last report of the Education Inspectorate, the 2013-2014 report, literally states that the organisation of education in this area is not very explicit and that its development is progressing slowly. I think it would be useful to give more guidance to achieve this development in the area of citizenship education. What does the Secretary of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u116	Mr Kuzu is quite right to say that the establishment is not very explicit. Don't worry. It wasn't explicated. There is only one thing in the law: schools must pay attention to citizenship. Period! There are also schools that do that fantastic. I think we all know the examples of schools where the difficult talks are not being avoided, where after the attacks in Paris good and intrusive talks were held about the Western values that bind us all. We'll all be happy about that. We're all proud of that. However, we also see schools where teachers find it difficult to avoid that kind of conversation. They don't talk about homosexuality in class because they're afraid of students' reactions. They're not talking about anti-Semitism because they're afraid of the reactions in class. While we do want those matters to be discussed there. Those are the schools that might say: we do a day about the Dutch parliament around Princess Day; then we also have the demand that citizenship should be respected in education. In fact, it is because we all do not agree because we mean citizenship. That is why I see this follow-up step as a huge opportunity to give it a little more hands and feet. They asked, "How are you gonna keep up?" Some things you might be able to test. Knowledge about the Constitution, about the functioning of Parliament and about social developments is very easy to check. Then you have to watch when you do it and how you do it. Part of it's about how you treat each other. I was caught by Mrs Ypma's speech. She said: there is a lot here about customization and individualization, but a school is also working together and living together. That's something that just takes shape in the practice of a school in a classroom. Students occasionally get a push or a stand under the watchful eye of an adult, professional teacher. In any case, that conversation is being managed in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u117	I share the Secretary of State's analysis. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I share the observations, I share the considerations, but then it is up to the Secretary of State to give the solution direction in the debate. I think it is wise that we should give more hands and feet to that. The Secretary of State's example is nice. Review may be carried out on a number of components. But just on those parts that you can't test, we have to get together. We can be pointers in that. My explicit question to the Secretary of State is that perhaps at a later date, by means of a letter or an investigation, we can get a little further on that. You don't have to do that today. In my view, it is precisely what is lacking in making citizenship education explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u118	Your question is clear. It is, by the way, a major debate, so you yourself say that it does not need to be answered today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u119	Exactly. The question is therefore whether the Secretary of State is prepared to come back to this at a later date by means of a letter or an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u120	I am very willing to do so, but I would very much like to put the ball down with teachers who are going to have to give hands and feet to this. We ask them to fill in that element. So what's in the core? What do we think all the kids should get? What are they supposed to know and know when they're done with school? It'll come back someday. Then we can test if we think that's good enough for all of us. If we want it to be a curriculum of, for and by teachers, then we have to be careful to prescribe everything in advance. There is now a very good basis with Schnabel. There are forerunners, pioneers who are already doing a great job. They're gonna be those learning labs that start working, showing what's working in practice. Then I hope for a very good result. The room will get it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u121	I hear the Secretary of State say it must be from, for and by the teachers. Is it not a good idea, then, to include this in the Education Co-operation, where both trade unions and trade unions are united? That is where we want to put down the teacher register, so that teachers' skills are kept up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u122	Full-bodied, yes. It is also not the case that the Education Co-oporation is not involved at all now. The letter I sent to the Chamber two months ago was fully discussed with the Education Cooperation Committee and a number of other groups. We have said to each other that this is a way of doing it together. I also read yesterday's letter or the day before yesterday as a statement of support for that process. The choice of a president for that route does not come from my ministry, but we have taken it together. The choice for teachers who are involved, we will make together. I would like to stress that there will not only be teachers on the design team, but that we will give the design team the task, just like the Schnabel Committee, to attract a lot of teachers and to visit many pioneer schools. They already shape a number of these elements in practice. There are, for example, schools that anticipate citizenship. There are also schools that anticipate ICT. I want there to be an interactive link, where schools in practice show how to design such a curriculum, what works, and what could eventually be achieved in such a framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u123	We agree on how this should be done, but we have had more debates on whether we should put something new in addition to everything we already have. We have that Education Cooperation. We want to lay down important tasks, including the teacher register. Should we abandon this important task of designing the follow-up to education2032?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u124	The Secretary of State has previously announced three blocks: a block on content, a block on the follow-up process and a block on cross-compliance. I think Mrs Ypma's interruption is aimed at the second block, while the Secretary of State is still working on the first block. If we want this debate to proceed in order, I suggest that Members respond to the blocks that are at issue. Then the Secretary of State can smooth through the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u125	I have the impression that the Education Co-operation feels extremely involved in this process. In fact, she has devoted one of her main lines to education2032. There are teachers from the Education Co-operative in the office who will be supporting the design team. Teachers will be brought in for that design team. In this sense, we do give the design team an independent role. There are also school leaders and a driver in it. We often seek people who come from education themselves, as the president has a background as a teacher. I think that's a very nice setup. If I get the impression that teachers don't feel sufficiently involved, I'm the first to intervene. I assure the Chamber. Mr Bishop asked whether it was right that English should be placed at the same level as Dutch. In my view, that is not the case. Dutch is the official language of our country and will always be important. This is without prejudice to the fact that we can think carefully about English, which is going to play an increasingly important role internationally. We see that the levels in schools are very different. There are schools that do great, there are schools that sometimes only start in the seventh or eighth grade. These pupils come at all different levels in secondary education and then the secondary education decides to start again, because the differences are so great. I think that's a shame. If we also want more efficiency in education, if we are going to spend the limited time in a way that creates room for new things, then this can really be smarter and better. This should not be done by starting in kindergarten classes, Mr Rog was quite right to welcome the fact that the Schnabel Committee has let that go, but it can be done by thinking carefully about the supposed final level at the end of primary school, so that secondary education knows what it can build on. What are the possibilities for, for example, German or French in the border regions? Those possibilities are still available; schools can choose to do so very consciously. Don't these subjects disappear? In Schnabel's opinion, they are not part of the core curriculum, but schools can choose to offer these courses in the context of deepening or broadening. The difference with the current situation is that both languages are no longer mandatory for all pupils. French and German remain electives, for which students can consciously choose for the future. Mrs Straus asked: if schools, for example in the border region, deliberately choose to offer German, can they do so for all pupils? I think it will always be a choice in the superstructure, but if a primary school chooses, so to speak, to give a few hours of German too, what is possible with the new laws and regulations that we have agreed on, and if you choose that school as a parent or child, then that is part of it. Then you can't say: I like to participate in this or this and not in that or that. Then it's really part of the school's profile and the choice the school makes. Mr Bruins asked about digital literacy. It's one of the trends. We do not know what the world looks like in 2032, but we do know that the impact of technology and ICT is growing. That's why it's important that this gets a good place in the curriculum. It is not only important to teach students how to deal with this in a responsible way, but also to enable them to use ICT as producers, for example, to design or programme. Mr Bruins actually added something to it. He said: ICT is not only a learning goal, it is also an instrument or a means to make education more attractive. He's absolutely right about that. This is one of the reasons why we are trying with the Doorbraakproject Education & ICT to boost the penetration of ICT in education. I still come to schools where I think: oh, boys, all on twenty computers! Then it's really pressing, when you'd expect a modern school to have that kind of resources available. A number of groups have asked questions about doing things, about making things. I think that's important. This is perhaps also a nice theme from ICT. That too can be a form to make things; think for example of 3D-design, that you find more and more in schools. However, it may also be more professionally or professionally oriented. In effect, I would also like to give it a firm place in the vmbo, where many students go in the Netherlands and which has a strong link with business. Making products, especially in an export country such as the Netherlands, is very important, and that the school plays a good role in this. In doing so, it can help to work together with the business community. A good example is the way in which the professional profiles in VMBO have been developed in recent years, partly in consultation with industry. It wasn't something teachers did alone. They often did this together with the business community and with the region, because metalworking in Schoonhoven is really something else than in IJmuiden. It was thought about what it means for the school, its own identity and what the school teaches the students. We can only learn from this example. Mr Bishop asked a question about citizenship and cross-skills. He said that this is important, but wondered if you should also accept it as separate learning goals. He himself indicated that he didn't think it was necessary. I have a different opinion. When we think about the broad remit of education, I think that we should not only focus on the cognitive aspects of it, for example the very strong emphasis that is now being put on language and counting, but also try to explicate the other objectives and give them into a future curriculum. That is with all the variation: some things you can test more and other things you can't. However, this does not make the uncheckable elements any less important. Mr Grashoff asked about the coherence of the substantive development of a curriculum in relation to customization and flexibilisation. I notice that schools are currently finding it very difficult to combine, for example, types of education, including in broad school communities, precisely because of the huge differences in the descriptions of the learning content and the learning objectives. Think, for example, of doing a job on a higher level. When you do it on a higher level, you suddenly get all kinds of other elements that you haven't had in the years before. I believe that it can increase the possibilities for flexibility and more tailor-made work in secondary education if you work towards the same kind of building, with fields of knowledge and terminology that are more similar, including between different types of education. In that sense, these things are interlocking. Finally, I would like to comment on this section on the question raised by Mrs Straus and Mr Van Dijk about free space. We have talked a great deal about the nuclear curriculum, but how do we ensure that quality is safeguarded in the free space? I think it is important that free space does not become a kind of hobby space in which everything can be done and in which there is no insight into where students end up. I also believe that the quality of broadening and deepening should be safeguarded. Schools will have to answer for this, primarily to parents and pupils, but also to the inspection. This can be done very well, for example, by giving this a place in the school plan. Let schools put it in there. I can also imagine that you're investigating some of these parts. In doing so, we need to strike a good balance between school exams and final exams. Take a course like German. If you consciously choose to do so as a school, it may also be very good to know exactly what the level of German of someone who has a diploma in law comes from school. We will have to look together at how we can offer schools room while ensuring the level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u126	Thank you for this explanation. My question was even more specific and was also about the development of choice. You're telling me this shouldn't just be a hobby. I agree. In the vmbo we have built up a whole infrastructure for the way in which electives can be developed and then examined. Can you not give this to the design team as best practice, so that we do not recreate something else in other forms of education, but as much as possible, so that one system can be created on the basis of which choice components can be developed and examined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u127	I think it is very good to see what lessons we can learn from this. This was specifically about the professional profiles, where you also bring in companies. This may not be the model for the development of, for example, the languages we have just talked about. However, please let us take advantage of the experience we have gained from this. It has gone to everyone's satisfaction. We can only learn from this further process. With this we have a natural bridge to the second major theme, the follow-up process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u128	I see that Mr Grashoff first has a question on the first subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u129	My question is a bit at the crossroads of these two themes. So I'm gonna put him at the risk of the Secretary of State saying he's gonna come up with this, but I'm gonna find out. In my contribution in the first term, I tried to indicate that in my opinion there is a strong relationship between the curriculum discussion and the development of new teaching methods associated with it. To put it bluntly, I don't see the classic textbook citizenship in front of me. I do see a method of education that allows you to do something about citizenship. Conversely, I can see possibilities. If you decide that the German course is going to take a different position, as an elective for motivated students, it might be much better to go to Germany in five vwo six months and learn German instead of pounding words out of a booklet for six years and not knowing it yet. This innovation in the content of education is, of course, not primarily a public task, but on the other hand I am afraid that we will lose a great deal of opportunities and opportunities in the coming years if there is no incentive in this area. Is the Secretary of State prepared, in the way in which he is going to organise the follow-up process, to also knowingly fill in a section on the renewal of the teaching method?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u130	I would like to take that with me, but you can taste some hesitation in my answer. In response to a number of questions put by Mr Van Dijk, I will take a more detailed look at Dijsselbloem. For example, Dijsselbloem clearly indicated that the government is ultimately about determining the "what" but that it is good for the "how" in which the methods are used, for example, to put the teacher's didactic and pedagogical professionalism at the centre and to interfere less with it. Then you get some kind of state pedagogy or some kind of state pedagogy, which we don't want either. At the same time you do have a point that if you are going to renew without this also leading to innovation in the methods, such a curriculum on paper may look nice, but nothing changes in the classroom. Let me just say, also in the discussions we are having, for example, with the Education Cooperation, how we can give that a good place and whether this is perhaps something we can put in parallel with this or as part of it, without having to sanction it in the end as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u131	I think we're pretty much on the same page here. For me too, it would be an abomination, if you think of it and then impose it on the public. I can't imagine that either. Conversely, we see that developments in this area are relatively slow. My frustration sometimes stems from this, because I see things that have not changed substantially in 50 years, and all the possibilities are there. There must be an engine, a flywheel to hunt this down. In particular, leave it with the people who know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u132	I think we agree on that. I'm coming to the follow-up process. The discussion runs and lives. I notice that a lot of teachers find it extremely positive and very stimulating to have another discussion, not about the preconditions for good education, but about the core of their profession, about the subject matter. That's what makes them tickle. I think it is important to maintain that positive energy, including in the follow-up process. This will also be necessary if we are to continue to seek broad support. I'd like to say a few things, to start with about teachers' involvement. The CDA said it rather provocatively: we are not going to a state committee that is going to impose a curriculum from above. I can take that care away immediately. We're not gonna do that. We need to ensure greater coherence in the curriculum and, above all, we need to increase the involvement of teachers. I'm always looking for which spokesperson said what. Let me see who is responding to the example of Ontario; that is Mrs Straus. I've been there, too, along with some teachers. We were told that teachers from trade unions regularly come together at the end of the year, the first week of summer holidays, from all corners and holes of Canada to discuss how to take the curriculum one step further and improve it again next year. This also created a lot of positive energy and a lot of enthusiasm for the Dutch teachers: we must also have that in the Netherlands. The crazy thing is that we have a formal curriculum, all those core goals that everyone says we can't do very much with. We have kept them very general, because then the teachers have a lot of freedom. However, we see that it is boarded up in the classroom by methods. We are fortunate that there are a number of strong educational publishing houses in the Netherlands, but they are the ones who decide what is given in the classroom. I'd love to give that back to the teachers. An important element for this is not only an update to a contemporary and more challenging curriculum, but also a curriculum: they get what is of the teachers in the Netherlands. That's what it's all about. That is why we want to involve the trade unions. Education cooperation and some of the trade unions have already indicated their willingness to participate in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u133	We know the Secretary of State as someone who, with some flexibility from a state committee that he himself has set up, ultimately makes something that belongs to the profession, but of course it is not. I ask the Secretary of State why he does not place the design of that curriculum with the profession itself, with the professional association, the Education Co-operative. Those are the people who have to do it. The Secretary of State has set up a committee that has the assignment: go develop the Schnabel-doctrine; make sure that, because you already think at your school and work as Schnabel, it ends up in the curriculum design. That doesn't give confidence to the sector, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u134	One doesn't have to rule out the other. We are now going to take a next step in developing the framework for that curriculum. Schnabel's opinion is a broad-based opinion. There are some good things in that opinion. It lays a good foundation. However, this does not yet provide a framework for a new curriculum. We can also ask the trade unions on the individual elements to renew, for example, physics, but that is exactly the way it is now. Then the renewal of such a curriculum takes place again in tubes and silos, without proper coordination. I think it would be a good idea to take an intermediate step and ask the Design Team2032 to talk to schools and see what elements might later be in the core curriculum. It must be ensured that this does not swallow up 90% or 95% of the time in schools and that there is sufficient space, but that it becomes a little more concrete than it is today. This calls for a slightly different approach to the approach we now know, for example, in the form of the renewal committees around the final examinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u135	I have a question for the Secretary of State. He testifies in the field of education and also in the Chamber that there is a broad support for the core curriculum. That sounds like profit to me. The Secretary of State could say to his committee: I have just been a little too hasty; I have sent a letter to the Chamber without us having talked about it and I should not have done so; I want to explain the task of working this out, to the people in education who are responsible for this task, so I turn to the Education Co-operative to take this up. Is he willing to say that to his committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u136	Here again, I would like to correct another misunderstanding. No committee has yet been set up. I have only asked for a chairman, by the way, in good consultation with the Education Co-operative. There's no assignment for that platform yet, for that commission. We're gonna work on that. I have deliberately chosen to do so only after this debate so that we can take the input of this debate with us. If Mr Rog's point is that teachers have a solid role to play in this, then I fully agree. We will then have to look at how we are going to shape this properly. I think this is possible with many teachers, for example in the Design Team2032 itself. However, I think it is even more important that there should be teachers around it. You can't take a next step by eventually getting a thousand teachers to write the curriculum framework. More people need to be asked to get the lines together and bring them together. That's not attic work; that's not locking people up in a loft that then does things on the drawing board. It will also have to be done, above all, in relation to schools, teachers, trade unions and experts who know about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u137	It is good to hear that the committee is not yet here, that there is no mandate and that only a chairman has been asked. In the meantime, the letter does say just how that committee should be composed. There are no less than four teachers in this House, I suspect two from the po and two from the vo. who have the noble task of bringing the whole thing together, while we now have something that works very well in Ontario, among other things. We have a professional group, we have the Education Cooperation. That's where the trade unions are. The Secretary of State has just set an example of the exact subjects. The trade unions have already said that they want to do this together. Those unions are in the Education Cooperation. Those unions are in the Education Cooperation. What is the attachment of this Secretary of State to a committee which is not even there yet and which has no mandate? Stop it, because this is immediately, at least in my eyes, the death blow for the early support there is for this advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u138	This really surprises me, because we have taken these steps in consultation and in accordance with the Education Co-operation which Mr Van Meenen is talking about. If he were to say that she had nothing to do with it, I could have imagined that the subject would be debated. I really have the impression that the question might be whether it is indeed the case that she is fully behind this, that she too says: this is the way we want to do it and we like to put good people on board. If Mr Van Meenen has any other signals, I would like to look at them again. However, all this has been done in full agreement and coordination with the Education Cooperation he is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u139	I do indeed have signals that the Education Co-operative may not think otherwise until now, but perhaps even earlier, and would indeed be prepared to accept that task. However, the Chamber also has its own responsibility. Our main responsibility is to maintain maximum acceptance. Look at everything that's been discussed here tonight. Apart from the question of how you look at the advice, we all agree that that is the crucial factor in this story. Then it is not possible for us to ask a very small group appointed by the Secretary of State to take the lead in this story at the moment, when we simply have that profession and we want the Education Cooperation to be a success? I really want to call on the Secretary of State to do that once again and to decide here and now to do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u140	I'd love to have that conversation, without saying in advance that we're gonna do it differently. I'd like to hear those stories, too. I received a letter the day before yesterday, also signed by the same Education Co-operation, which states: go ahead with the process, we are fully behind it, chapeau! Normally the Teaching Co-operative is always there as the chickens to add comments everywhere. So I don't understand the problem. However, if Mr Van Meenen gets any other signals, I will be happy to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u141	I have another point, but it is about the process. The Secretary of State says he can remember being in Ontario and what they do there. One of the things there is that the curriculum is periodically reviewed. We're talking about it now, but the world isn't standing still. So it's really something that should come back regularly. In drawing up Schnabel's opinion, can the Secretary of State agree with the Education Co-operation on how best to do so? Can the Secretary of State take the task of thinking about not allowing this exercise to be a one-off exercise, but to lay down an infrastructure that can make it happen periodically?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u142	I think it's very important to bring that along, but I wonder if we should ask that of such a design team. Then we're going to put in all kinds of themes that are not so much related to the content of the curriculum, but much more related to the conditions surrounding it. I do think it is an important subject, as do matters such as checking, monitoring and teacher training. I would like to talk to the educational field in a broad sense to look at this. If this is a success, then we must review it periodically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u143	I'd like to go into it a little bit more. Of course, you can set up a design team for this phase. It's fine to see what works in it and what doesn't. I think it would be a missed opportunity if we did not consider in parallel whether we could lay down some sort of basis on which we could conduct those discussions on this re-examination. I would regret the fact that these two worlds are really coming together, because I think one could learn very well from one another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u144	I fully agree with Mrs Straus. If this works, we need to see how we can follow up on it and we need to keep it going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u145	I call Mrs Ypma. I propose that the Secretary of State should then complete his reply. I believe you have just made a request to me, Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u146	Yes, but I'm not going to make that train anymore, Mr. President. Haha. So it's gonna be a good night's sleep. I'm gonna try one more thing, because we have a wonderful process. There's a very nice report. We are now talking about how to proceed. I think there has been a very broad signal from the Chamber that we think this is a good process, that we think this is a good report and that we want to think of a process to review things on a regular basis once in a while. We do not want to leave that aside with a project team, but with the Education Co-operation. My proposal would be for the Secretary of State to take back this small part of his overall plan and see if he can put that task in the Education Co-operation so that there can be a periodic review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u147	I am absolutely prepared to discuss the issue of how we can ensure that something does not cease to exist when it comes to an end and is followed up. If I have misunderstood the signals of the Education Co-operation and we should change something, then there is still room for that. At least I'll let the Chamber know what the outcome of that conversation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u148	This is my very last attempt, otherwise the Secretary of State will simply get a motion on his pants. I'm trying to prevent that. I think the answer should be: yes, I'm going to put it down at the Education Cooperation and if I don't, I'm going to put it back. So I would like to turn it around, because that signal sends the Chamber very clearly to the Secretary of State today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u149	I'm fine with it. I'm gonna put it back anyway, no matter what the outcome is. I've already had the theme Leerlabs. Mrs Straus asked whether schools that put elements of education2032 into practice could be seen as some kind of forerunner and whether they had a role to play. That could be pretty good in those leather labs. Mr Kuzu asked if experiments could be carried out with scrutiny. That could be taken into account. I do not think that scrutiny is really an element for the next phase. We should first look at how we can update the content. But if there are experiences that can already be learned immediately, we should not rule out them either. Questions have been asked about the involvement of other stakeholders in a future curriculum: students and parents. I think it is a very good idea for Mrs Straus to set up a student sounding board group. Perhaps we should do the same for parents, but we will also have to give it to a design team, the Education Co-operation or the one who will do it later. Mrs Straus asked how politics remained involved. I would say: Come especially to the Leerlabs as they walk; also go into conversation. Several Members of Parliament have already participated extensively in the process in the previous phase. That's what they're supposed to keep doing. But there are also some formal moments. Eventually, a curriculum will lead to new core goals, new end-terms, new reference levels. It'll have to be determined by the Chamber. Then I come to the report of the Dijsselbloem Committee. In my view, this too will have to play an important role in the follow-up process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u150	I note that Mr Kuzu is trying to interrupt. The Secretary of State is still working on block two, the follow-up process. I therefore propose that he finish this block and that Mr Kuzu be given the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u151	I get the impression that we are now working on something that the Dijsselbloem Committee suggested in its report. On page 143, Dijsselbloem already talks about determining the most important subjects in a core curriculum. He also proposes to do this more concretely than now. He has devoted a number of sensible paragraphs to this. The question then is whether we are also working in accordance with the working method and the review framework that Dijsselbloem gave us. We all know the review framework with about ten or twelve elements. I'm not going to see them all, but I can get some big elements out of it. One of the important conditions mentioned by Dijsselbloem is to work with a clear problem analysis. It must be convincingly demonstrated that government intervention, change is necessary. For this purpose, I would just like to point out the letter I sent in November 2014 which describes this comprehensive problem analysis. It is not just my pen or my officials' pen, but it is based on previous advice from the Education Council and research into previous educational renewals. There are also many scientific reports involved, for example from the WRR and the OECD. The second opinion from the Dijsselbloem review framework reads as follows: If you are going to renew something, do it not with a big bang but small-scale and try out innovations first. One of the ideas for the next phase is that a design team does not sit in a room and work at the drawing table, but works interactively in relation to schools that already put elements of it into practice. This is a very different way of working than in previous educational renewals, some of which spokesmen have said that they have not gone well. I think we all learned from that too. It was often so rigged that it was the work of officials and experts, who in the back rooms invented something that was poured out on education at once and which did not work in practice. I hope we've learned from that. I would also like to take into account in the process that we will only do things when they are feasible, when teachers can get away with it. That is why it is so important to involve teachers in this whole process. A third opinion from the Dijsselbloem review framework reads as follows: if you change anything, do so with support and involvement of those who ultimately have to work with it. That is why cooperation with schools and teachers is such an important part of the process. In other words, we are not only doing something that Dijsselbloem suggested in education2032, but also the way we do it meets important elements of his review framework. Then I come to the last big block, the preconditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u152	I am looking at Mr Kuzu, who is now walking hard at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u153	I heard the Secretary of State promise to experiment with new forms of testing in those learning labs. I had also raised a question about the training of teachers in this context. Does the Secretary of State want that included? Then I don't have to file my motion on that, which saves paperwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u154	On the education of teachers, I will come back to the block in detail. I think this is one of the important preconditions for a new curriculum to succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u155	So that means yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u156	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u157	The Secretary of State mentions a number of aspects that Dijsselbloem mentioned in his report. That's very nice. Dijsselbloem also talked about taking sufficient time and sufficient financial resources. In short, it's a list. We don't have to treat them exhaustively. My request was very explicit at the moment to check what you can test at the moment. Later there's another phase and then we'll see what we have to test. Will the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u158	It is always important in the process to test: where do you stand, does it work, are the preconditions to realize it in education present and do we not ask things that are impossible? If we come at a stage where we say of certain things that they have to do differently or in which we say that we want to see certain elements in primary schools, for example in the field of ICT, which are really new, which are just not there yet in education, then this also requires a number of things in terms of continuing training and money. Then we will have to look in the future at how we will support this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u159	But does the Secretary of State agree with me that we should look very carefully at whether we comply with the Dijsselbloem review framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u160	Yes, I think we should always keep the Dijsselbloem review framework in mind. We must always ask ourselves whether we still comply with that. I have just indicated that I think we are in line with this, but in the next phase of the project, too, it is good to keep that aside as a checklist. I now come to a few important conditions. I'm gonna go through it a little faster. If I miss a little, I will hear from the political groups in the second term whether they want to come back to that. A number of things are very important. First of all, a very careful implementation process will be important, with sufficient time for, sufficient support and support for the teachers. The second is the importance of teachers... Sorry, I'm gonna take one question back. Mr Van Meenen had a question about time: what does the Secretary of State mean by a phased introduction? He asked if that depends on what comes out of the next phase. A careful implementation process also includes that you do not ask for everything at once from education. For example, you say: "We have to start with three things. Let's do this first. If that's what it says, then this is what we're gonna do." So you can vary in that. The rubber band may be tense, but it shouldn't snap. A number of group spokesmen asked questions about training and continuing training. That too is important. Mr Van Meenen asked if we were willing to invest in digitalisation training. There is a lot of inventory at the moment, but we need to look at what education2032 will come up with and what that will mean for teachers, including in terms of investment. Ms. Ypma asked if we agree that each team should consist of 30% of master-educated teachers. I can be brief on that: yes. We have included such ambitions in the sectoral agreements. For secondary education, these ambitions are even higher. Mrs Ypma also asked what our ambitions are in terms of cross-disciplinary, broad educational bachelors and masters. Educational bachelors and masters are commissioned to prepare teachers for the fulfilment of the skills requirements. If education will be more vocationally transcendent than it is now, it will also have implications for the content and organisation of education. Universities and colleges of applied sciences must be able to respond to this. That is why teacher training also plays an important role in the design process. I see it as the duty of the Minister and myself to promote cooperation between teacher training and schools, thus linking supply and demand. What is our ambition in terms of the number of training schools? There is an increase in the number of training schools financed from 55 to 85. In the last year there have been 7 new training schools, in MBO 8 and in PO 7. The next round will start in September of this year. A number of questions have been asked about testing and examination, another important prerequisite. If you go to a new educational content, shouldn't you be looking at that critically? Mr Van Meenen and Mr Grashoff have a point to make. If you don't change anything, a new curriculum like that won't eventually fly. Education should not be driven by scrutiny and examination, but that is ultimately the final point in determining whether schools have complied with the content to which they should pay attention. It is also necessary to examine whether, for example, at the end of secondary education they can and know the things that we would have expected them to know and be able to do. Finally, I focus on the ambition for Together Learning Life. Mrs Ypma asked questions about that. We will come back to this in more detail in the plan of approach broad bridge classes: what can we do to maintain the right provision but, on top of that, to ensure that there is still enough room for flexibility and more tailor-made work in secondary education even after secondary school? Mr President, I am through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u161	Thank you. This brought an end to the government's first term of office. Is there a need for a second term among members? That's the case, I see. Then I propose that we use two minutes' speaking time. I would ask Members to limit the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u162	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive and careful response. I welcome some of the things he has said and some of the misunderstandings he has removed. There are still two issues on which I would like to see the opinion of the Chamber. It concerns the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the maximum involvement of teachers in their development is essential for the success of educational renewal;]] [[Whereas the Dijsselbloem Commission has recommended, inter alia, that both scientific support and support among teachers are necessary conditions for achieving didactic innovations;]] [[Whereas the Education Co-operation represents the profession of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from setting up a draft team as proposed;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Education Co-operation to come forward with a process proposal for the further development of education2032 and to ensure a strong role of teachers in the development of education2032, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u163	I have already announced it in another debate this morning: education renewal cannot take place without the teacher's time. That is why, perhaps to the furthest of my colleagues: here we go again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for the development of educational renewal that teachers in primary and secondary education have sufficient time to shape this at a high level;]] [[calls for a maximum number of teaching hours of twenty hours per full-time teacher for secondary education and eight days for a full-time teacher in primary education;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the educational field, to draw up proposals for this purpose, giving teachers time and space to improve, broaden, deepen and shape education renewal;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u164	Mr. Chairman. It is very uncertain which way it is going with this trajectory. I have already explained my objections in the first period. What about the subjects, exactly? The Secretary of State says, well, we'll watch, schools are always free to continue offering history. But it has to be the other way around, of course. We must say here that we consider history important or not. I'm afraid this will slip out of our hands if we don't intervene now. I have another question I would like an answer to. Does the central exam of a profession like history continue to exist? The Secretary of State has very kindly ended a few points of the review framework of the Dijsselbloem Commission. He also says reassuringly that we will continue to look at this in the course of the process. I have said that this is actually a point in which we must stand still: do we want to go further along this road or not? I believe that the review framework of the Dijsselbloem Commission is very relevant at the moment. I would like to have an effect on that before the Secretary of State continues. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dijsselbloem Commission has established a review framework to assess major educational renewals;]] [[calls on the government, before continuing the course, to review the education project2032 on the basis of the review framework of the Dijsselbloem Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u165	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech and also for the recognition of the importance of technology, of ICT, but also of identity in education. I shall confine myself to two motions. I'd also like to report that I'm holding the Voordewind c.s. in piece No. 49 (34000-VIII) of 6 November 2014 should be put to the vote next week. I'm not reading that motion because it's been read out before. That motion proposes to review new educational proposals against the review framework of the Dijsselbloem Commission. At the time, this motion was too early, but we actually seem to be getting along pretty well, especially when we read what is written there. So I would like to put that motion to the vote next week. At the moment, under that motion are the names Voordewind, Rog, Van Meenen and Bishop. Now I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pluralism and diversity are central concepts in the report on education2032;]] [[Whereas direction, funding and standards of foundation and removal have a decisive influence on the pluralism and diversity of school offerings;]] [[Whereas the legislative proposal More room for new schools focuses mainly on the deletion of the concept of "direction";]] [[calls on the government to include in the follow-up to education2032 how direction, funding and foundation and lifting standards can contribute to a successful implementation of the vision of education2032,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that demand for people with craft or technical training will remain high at VMBO/MBO level;]] [[Whereas VMBO and the training of professionals remain under-exposed in the opinion of the Education Platform2032;]] [[calls on the Government, in the further development of education2032 practical skills in primary education and training of professionals in VMBO, to give a strong form in cooperation with teachers, schools in vocational education, industry and social partners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Bishop and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-286]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Ypma, Mr Straus and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u166	Mr. Chairman. If the children of today leave school in 2032, they must be well prepared. This requires the best education. Education in which you meet children with other interests, cultures and backgrounds, discover your talents and develop. This requires the best teachers. Teachers who ensure that the educational programme is always appropriate and up-to-date and support vulnerable pupils. Teachers who are given the confidence and space to shape the part of education with pupils and parents. I therefore have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that education is a continuing concern for the government and therefore it remains important to provide guidance and requirements for the core curriculum and to have the education inspection monitor the quality of education;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the core curriculum which will be used as a permanent basis for all schools in the Netherlands, there will also be room for schools to broaden or deepen their education by means of choice;]] [[Whereas pupils and parents, teachers and school leaders of a school should together guide the colouring of their education;]] [[Whereas the competent authority decides on the (change of) educational objectives of the school and the adoption or amendment of the school plan and the participation council has the right of assent;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that teachers, pupils, school leaders and parents share the debate on the implementation and design of education at their school and that the choices they have made are included in the school plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality of teachers has a major impact on the development of children in their classroom;]] [[Whereas teachers are professionals who deserve space and control in order to shape and content their profession;]] [[calls on the Government to promote:]] [[teacher training and professionalisation focussed on dealing with differences, the use of ICT and curriculum development;]] [[strengthening the training of new generations of teachers within training schools, school and teacher training cooperation, so that theory and practice are more interwoven than they are now;]] [[agreement is reached on the development of broad, cross-disciplinary educational bachelors and masters, both at HBO and WE level, which prepare students for the modern profession of teacher, both in primary and secondary education;]] [[the development of university primary education courses;]] [[calls on the Government to promote teacher training in both HBO and wo to adapt their curriculum to take account of developments further developed under education2032,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma, Mr Bruins and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-288]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma, Mr Bruins and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u167	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. In general, the GroenLinks group is well placed to respond. We note that at least the Secretary of State intends to continue the organic process that has taken place so far. That does not alter the fact that I found the answers given by the Secretary of State to various questions relating to the Education Cooperation somewhat unclear. I wonder whether they can be clarified, in particular on the basis of the motion tabled by some of my fellow Members. I find that very interesting, too. It is important for voting to have a clear answer to this. I also note that the Secretary of State has undertaken to include in any way the question of the development of new teaching methods that fit in with the new curriculum ideas. I say it quite translated. That's very nice. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber at an appropriate time about what is coming out of this and how this can be put in place in the follow-up process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u168	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch culture has values such as tolerance, equality between men and women and freedom of expression, which are fundamental to our democratic rule of law;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the report Two worlds, two realities show that in schools there are now many pupils who do not know, understand or subscribe to these values;]] [[Whereas teachers do not feel sufficiently prepared and supported to convey these values in the classroom and there are many examples of self-censorship or embarrassment;]] [[noting that these values will be put under further pressure if we do not actively defend them;]] [[noting that the opinion on education2032 refers to citizenship issues such as the democratic rule of law and human rights, but not the values of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to support all teachers and school leaders who wish to give these values a central role in education in the interests of the pupils, to speak out against self-censorship and to address embarrassment of action;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Design Team2032 to firmly anchor the fundamental Dutch values in the design of citizenship in the core curriculum so that teachers are given guidance and guidance to conduct these discussions with their students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u169	Fortunately, this motion is a lot shorter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the renewal of the curriculum is in the interests of today's and tomorrow's pupils;]] [[Whereas the Design Team2032 does not include pupils;]] [[noting that the feedback of pupils may be of great importance in the choices the Design Team will make2032;]] [[calls on the Government to invite the Design Team2032 to set up a Pupils Soundboard Group which is of considerable size and periodically reflects on the proposals of the Design Team2032,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus, Mr Grashoff, Mr Bishop, Mr Bruins and Mr Ypma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u170	Mr. Chairman. I had three motions prepared. One was about the Secretary of State's draft committee, because we have to get rid of it. Mr Van Meenen has tabled a motion with me on this. Another motion was on the subject of professional competence and professional orientation in VMBO. Mr Bruins has tabled a motion on this subject, which I have co-signed. So there's only one motion left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in our education system, toddlers are increasingly approached as a schoolchild rather than as a kindergarten child;]] [[Whereas public authorities, school boards and method developers regularly encourage formal learning of preschoolers, while nursery teachers, development psychologists and other experts warn of adverse effects and call for conditional education;]] [[calls on the Government to pay particular attention to their development phase in the follow-up to curriculum development related to toddlers, e.g. by involving the Work/Support Group on Pre-school Education (SSK),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog, Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u171	Mr. Chairman. I'll file two motions and begin the brief motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parental involvement is a major asset in education and is necessary for the creation of sufficient support for the new curriculum;]] [[calls on the government to involve parents and the organisation Parents & Education, where possible and meaningful, in the activities and activities of the Design Team2032,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research and inspection data show that citizenship education is not yet sufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to have citizenship competences explicitly established by the Design Team2032;]] [[calls on the Government also to have the draft team2032 examine the cases in which these citizenship competences may be assessed centrally;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the draft team2032 makes proposals on how citizenship competences that are difficult or not verifiable can be monitored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-293]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-294]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u172	That'll make me neat in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u173	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions in detail. He didn't reassure me when it comes to that evolutionary character. As far as I am concerned, these plans, this renewal of education, still have a very revolutionary character. There has even been a change in the system. In this respect, we are extremely opposed to this movement. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there has been no broad shared demand from the educational workplace for yet another innovation in education;]] [[In conclusion, with the Platform Education initiative2032, the government has attempted to create a need for innovation that was not there;]] [[Whereas the proposed educational renewal does not meet an initial need and will lead to uncertainty, unrest and increased workload;]] [[calls on the government to stop the follow-up process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-295]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u174	I submit this motion in the knowledge that the Labour Party does not even bother to read it. That is the party that makes wonderful motions that parents and everyone should be involved in the development of this plan. I understand that we are still in disgrace. I'm gonna file the motion anyway. I have a mandate and I think it is part of the democratic game to do so. However, I would have liked to have noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u175	Of course, you have the right to file the motion, as do all the other Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u176	Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd stand there and save some time and do the president a favor. After thanking the Secretary of State for his reply, I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mastery of one's own language is essential to a status other than the mastery of foreign languages;]] [[noting that the Platform on Education2032 assumes that mastery of English is as essential for every Dutchman as it is for Dutch;]] [[noting that the inclusion of English in the nuclear programme together with the expiry of the mandatory second foreign language may contribute to one-sidedness in education and cultural divergence;]] [[calls on the Government, when reviewing the core objectives, to preserve the special status of Dutch as its own language, to keep primary schools free when they begin teaching in English, by the way, taking into account the final level to be determined, and to pay more attention to the control of border languages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Rog, Mr Bruins and Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u177	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools and teacher training may be expected to be able to implement the education programme on the basis of the core objectives;]] [[noting that schools and teacher training often do not rely on the scope of the core objectives in shaping the educational offer, but that they rely heavily on commercial teaching methods;]] [[calls on the government to shape the revision of the core targets in such a way that the core targets for both schools and teacher training provide incentives and scope for self-sustaining the education programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Rog and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-297]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u178	My final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that important developments such as internationalisation, digitalisation and the need for citizenship are reflected in a variety of ways in the education programme, but that skills in these areas are often not, or do not need to be, an independent educational objective or subject;]] [[calls on the Government, when developing the core curriculum, to take account of the different characteristics of the various components and to make them relevant to the freedom which schools deserve in their development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u179	I'm looking in the direction of the Secretary of State. He's already received most of the motions. I would ask him to comment briefly and briefly on the motions and to answer any questions he may have. I suggest that the Secretary of State should start soon, because he has heard all the motions and he has eight or so in front of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u180	Can we wait until I get all the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u181	I suggest you get started, because you have all heard the motions and you have already received about eight. So you can start with the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u182	Mr. Chairman. I will start with a response to two questions. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the central history exam would continue. At least it will not be abolished by Schnabel, I note. It will be part of the domain "Human and Society." The shape of the profession may change a bit in the long run, but I assume it will continue to exist. The same applies to the central examination. Mr Grashoff asked for a feedback from my commitment to include the issue of methods. I believe that we will continue to inform the Chamber on this issue at regular intervals. I think it would be good if this were explicitly taken into account in one of the following progress reports. I come to the motions, first of all those tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog on item No. 283. I'd like to ask the petitioners to hold the motion. That has to do with a few things. As far as I am concerned, the Education Co-operation is fully involved and involved in this process. I consider her support for the process indispensable. At the same time, the support of teachers is important, but I also believe that we must retain the support of a number of other organisations. So far, that's been there all the time. I found it so beautiful that there was a joint letter, not only from the Education Co-operation, but also from the school leaders and from the administrators. If we now anticipate another organisation, that shaky balance can be upset. I'd say it's deadly and mortally sinful. I must also, of course, consider whether the Education Co-operation is at all willing and able to do so, and whether it is adequately equipped. This also has to do with the strength of the organisation and with the question whether it has sufficient human resources. She must also want to do it in a good way. Suggesting a tractor in this process, Geri Bonhof, has been done in accordance with and with alignment. I would like to see if she can play a part in this. In other words, there are a number of elements which make it too premature for me to say yes to this motion. But I have heard the Chamber correctly and I am prepared to get this back quickly and come back to the Chamber with a letter on how to do otherwise. Perhaps the motion can be held until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u183	I am prepared to do so, but I would like to hear a deadline. I would imagine that such a reconnaissance would take a few weeks, but that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u184	I wouldn't want to waste that much time. Mr Van Meenen asks me to come back before the summer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u185	Not with the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u186	No, but I'd have thought that for too long. Everyone's in the starting blocks, everybody wants to speed it up. As far as I'm concerned, it's a matter of two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u187	Then I'll hold the motion for two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u188	At the request of Mr Van Meenen, I propose his motion (31293, 31289), No. 283). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u189	The motion in part No. 284, I'm not sure. It is Mr Van Meenen's well-known song. It is also well known that my sway to dissuade the motion is now well known. Mr Van Dijk's motion for a resolution 285, I think, is superfluous. I just made that commitment, so I'm gonna back off the motion. I would also advise against the motion by Mr Bruins, Mr Bishop and Mr Rog on item No. 286, because I consider it unwise and not necessary to link both routes. We will soon be discussing more room for new schools. Mr Bruins has given us a number of concerns, which I am absolutely aware of. I have spoken with a number of profile organisations about ways in which we can overcome the risk to, for example, a last school of a direction. I don't see any reason to link it to the curriculum discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u190	I am prepared to delete that recital. It is indeed not charming to link these two paths in this debate. I would be interested to hear the Secretary of State's appreciation of the deletion of that recital.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u191	It is not only in the recital but also in the operative part. In fact, they link plans on direction, around funding and around foundation and lifting standards to the content question of education. Those are really two completely separate issues. I think that we need to discuss the other subject, which I read in the newspaper that Mr Bruins is very close to our heart, in more detail. However, I do not see the link, and that is why I reject the motion. The judgment on the Bruins motion c.s. in piece No. 287 I can leave to the Chamber. The Ypma c.s. motion. in piece No. 288 ditto. Also the judgment on the Ypma c.s. motion. in piece No. 289 I can leave to the Chamber. These are all additions to the discussions we have just had. In that sense, the motions support the policy. I would also like to mention Mrs Straus's motion for a resolution on item No. 290 I leave to the Chamber. The Strauss c.s. motion in piece No. 291 about the student sounding board is also a good addition: judgment Chamber. The motion-Rog c.s. in piece No. 292 ditto. The judgment on the Kuzu motion in part No. 293, I'll leave it to the Chamber, too. It is ultimately up to the design team or the club that will do so to give hands and feet to this. The Kuzu motion in part No. 294 I do not recommend, partly because I do not consider tests to be necessary at this stage. I think it is important that the next step is about content. The tests have to follow; I have said a few things about this. However, I do not think it would be appropriate to include this in the next phase of the process. The Bertema motion in part No. 295, I don't recommend. In my view, this does not require further explanation after what is divided into first and second periods. The motion Bishop c.s. in piece No. 296, in my view, is completely unnecessary. Dutch already has a separate status and there is room for locals. This doesn't add anything to that. I am now slowing down a bit because I have just received these motions placed under my nose. I just need to read what exactly the operative part of the motion is. In the Bishop c.s. motion. in piece No. 297 is concerned with the fact that the core objectives for both schools and teacher training provide incentives and scope for self-sustaining the education programme. I do not entirely agree with that. Core targets must give both direction and space. They're very vague now. That is precisely why the Schnabel Committee said: make them clearer and clearer. That's why I advise against this motion. The Bishop/Bruins motion in part No. 298, I'm not sure. In my view, she does not do justice to the idea of a nuclear curriculum that applies to all schools, to everyone. Then there is no room to deviate from that either. In addition to a core curriculum, schools obviously need to have room for their own interpretation along the lines of identity, but that does not affect the core curriculum, although this motion suggests so. That's why I don't recommend it. In doing so, I have dealt with all the motions that have been tabled today. Mr Bruins has also withdrawn an old motion which he wishes to retable, the motion held by Mr Voordewind of 6 November 2014. I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u192	Mr Kuzu has another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 294.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u193	That's right. The motion contains three requests. I am very sensitive to the Secretary of State's argument about the phased course of this project; let me call it "project." What would the Secretary of State say if I dropped the last two requests and returned to them at a later date? Above all, it is now very important for us to ask the design team to clarify, once and for all, these necessary citizenship competences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u194	You propose to delete the last paragraph?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u195	The last two paragraphs. The operative part now consists of three parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u196	If you delete the last two dictators, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. The first operative part requires explicit determination of the citizenship competences component. I think it is very good that the committee is working on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u197	An amended motion is being sent around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u198	We have already discussed the handling of motions in detail in this committee. The judgment on motions on items Nos. 288 to 291, the Secretary of State left the Chamber very smoothly because they would support policy. Then the Secretary of State also left Mr Bruins's motion on the review framework of the Dijsselbloem Committee to the Chamber, while my motion also states that we must apply Mr Dijsselbloem's review framework! That motion was suddenly unnecessary. I suspect there's some inconsistency here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u199	Maybe I should zoom in a little bit more on the motion in part no. 285, the motion to which Mr Van Dijk refers. In part, it is unnecessary in my view because I have already explained in detail in the first period why the whole process around 2032 in my view meets the Dijsselbloem review framework. There is, however, another element in the motion: Mr Van Dijk says that this review must be carried out again before we continue the process. That's not what I'm here for. In a letter to the Chamber, I will come back to the way we are going to organise it later. We must do this wisely with the greatest involvement of teachers, but we must not stop everything now. That's what this motion suggests. That's why I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u200	The Secretary of State therefore does not consider the motion superfluous! That was his first argument: the motion is superfluous and I therefore advise against it. Now he says, "I disagree." That is a very different argument. The latter is in any case substantive. We then have a political disagreement and the Chamber may decide, but I did not think that the first argument put forward by the Secretary of State was entirely consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u201	Even at this time, Mr Van Dijk is still very sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u202	So you can see that interruptions can also have an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u203	I have a bit of a feeling that the three motions I have tabled have nevertheless been the victims of the fact that they were last tabled and that the Secretary of State has not yet been able to take note of them in advance. I would ask him to take a closer look at it at a more calm time. The motion in part No. 296 points out, for example, that English and Dutch are just as important. This motion says that Dutch is the native language. I heard the Secretary of State say that. So it remains the most important language. That should be in order. In addition, the final level of English should be set for primary education. Do the schools have the room to set it up as they see fit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u204	Mr Bishop, the text of the motion is clear; you have just read it. I don't think you should do that again. The question to the Secretary of State was to respond to it. It seems to me that you can make a point now. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u205	I will stick to my earlier advice, not because I fundamentally disagree with it in all respects, but because I think it would be better for the design team to look into this and that we are not going to hang the signs here before we get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u206	I think we have an important framework. Should English now be treated on an equal footing with Dutch? Or do we say: Dutch, the basis, should be in order and then we start working on foreign languages? You're gonna give me that frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u207	I'm just gonna read the motion. Right to do the special status of Dutch as its own language. I fully agree with that. Primary schools should be allowed to retain freedom when they start teaching in English. Yes, that is the essence of the advice that Schnabel has also given, so that is unnecessary. Then there is something that is difficult to read: and by the way not in compliance with... O, it says: by the way, taking into account the final level to be determined...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u208	Mr. Chairman. I didn't know I had such a bad handwriting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u209	Mr Bishop, you do not need to read the motion again. The motion is not very clear by the way it was drafted, but that is what the Chamber itself is about. I believe that the Secretary of State is almost in a position to give an opinion on the basis of the text that is now before us: by the way, taking into account the final level to be determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u210	Mr. Chairman. Then what does this add to the whole discussion we have had before? In my view nothing, so the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u211	You're asking me, but you're supposed to be judging. The Chamber can, of course, vote on this in its own wisdom. Even if the Secretary of State gives a judgment "dissuade', it is up to the Court to take a position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-13.u212	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and for coming to the Chamber for this main debate on the opinion of the Education Platform2032. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
