ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u1	Good afternoon. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, the public and the people who are watching, as well as colleagues, of course. We're due for the second term of the Chamber. Speaking time shall be one third of the time used in the first period. First of all, Mrs Leijten from the SP Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. That's what I'm gonna try with what it says. The essence of this debate is actually the bridging regulation proposed for people who live at home and have to go to an institution because they need care but cannot go there yet, because it is not the care institution of their choice or because it is too far away; that is actually the same thing. They then come into a bridging arrangement, which should be there for care offices to arrange a place. The practice is, however, that they do not arrange a place but that people are looking for it themselves. The practice will therefore be that when the bridging arrangement expires, those looking for a place stand empty-handed, and that the healthcare office does not really notice anything about it. You make arrangements for a care office to arrange something for people, but it will lead to you imposing something on people, forcing them to do something. That's also possible, because care firms have to think within a reasonable distance. But the Secretary of State is not prepared to indicate what "a reasonable distance" is. We have seen enough examples in the past of old people who had to move out of their village or community because the nursing homes had to close. At that time, the Secretary of State didn't think that was a problem, if only there had been consultation, while people were getting wasted and couldn't get any more visitors. Actually, with this arrangement, you make a new package that someone has to fit in; you force people to fit into packets. If they don't fit in, there will be discussion, and eventually the care office decides. That has to be the other way around, so I say to the Secretary of State. The idea is that care adapts to the needs and wishes of people. That is why I have made an amendment to remove from the law the efficiency test that can be used for the home indication for institution care. Then there is no longer any need for a bridging period for someone's indication. Then you can just say: someone who cannot go to the institution where he wants to live, gets the care at home in time until he can go there. Then you don't need a limit, you don't have to look at efficiency anymore and you don't have a discussion about progress; you name it all. I think that's the easiest thing to do. I just assume the Secretary of State isn't gonna embrace that, because I know him a few years longer than I do today. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is proposing to link a maximum period of 13 weeks to bridging care;]] [[Considering that you cannot force people to live somewhere they do not want to live, especially if it is the last place someone will live;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that people are not forced to live somewhere where they do not want to,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34279-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u3	I do not think that the Secretary of State can get away with: yes, but in a crisis situation everything becomes liquid. Because then you get the situation that people are forced to stay home longer, because they are no longer allowed to go to an institution, and that if they are so bad that they can't do it at home, they are arrested and put up somewhere, even if that's against their will. That must not have been the health reform of this Secretary of State. Even if someone is included in a crisis, this must be done as close as possible and as closely as possible to his wishes. Otherwise, a health care office could say, "Well, we're making someone deteriorate." At the moment when he can no longer report it himself or can no longer wait for care, he can still be forced to that place. I'd better report that to the Secretary of State. I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government does not define a reasonable distance for obtaining care;]] [[noting that the assessment of whether or not a reasonable distance is available to the health care offices;]] [[considers that tailor-made work should not lead to arbitrariness;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that testable criteria are established for the concept of reasonable distance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34279-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I would like to come back to two points. The first goes over the thirteen-week limit. The Secretary of State actually said that it is in no way a restriction on the rights or possibilities of clients. Even on my question to answer that with a yes or no, he said: yes, that's right, that's in no way an obstacle. However, the question remains with me. Where does the law say that? As we read now, we are concerned that in practice, after 12 weeks, the healthcare office will be running at that thirteen-week limit and that this means that the chance that someone will be able to go to the place of their preference in the future will be put under pressure. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State once again to state where this is at. If, by the way, it is settled, I understand the opposition to the amendments tabled by Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Bergkamp from my own party. So I need further clarification on this point. The second point concerns the authorisation of closed youth services. The Secretary of State has said there's always a judge's ruling ahead of it. In my view, this is also a grey area. The judge then said something under conditions, but if the conditions are not met at any time, it is the youth aid that determines whether it is being put in jail. I think that is a grey area in which my group is uncomfortable. I will now refrain from a motion on this point, but I would ask the Secretary of State to look very carefully at this and to send a letter to the Chamber on this. How exactly does this work and how does it relate to the restriction of freedom and fundamental rights? It's a complex file. Finally, I would like to point out that Mr Van Dijk will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. With the present legislative amendment, the Secretary of State believes to regulate bridging care. This is about caring in an institution for people who have an indication of it. These are people who are waiting for a place in a nursing home, a disabled institution or a ggz institution. At the moment, 13,392 people are waiting in such a place. So it seems as if the Secretary of State deals with this change of law, but in my opinion he does not regulate anything either. He's proposing a deadline of 13 weeks. But what happens after the thirteen weeks? In fact, this is only a question of coercion, and that is a serious problem for us. To my question how many places are available, where there are many thousands waiting, the Secretary of State had no answer. He mentioned the absence of a picture of the situation. In fact, I do not think it is possible for the Secretary of State to ask us to vote on this amendment next Tuesday when we do not know how many places are available. If there are over 13,000 people waiting for a place and there are 13,000 available places in the country, you can manage a lot more, but if there are only 4,000 or 2,000 or zero places available, there is a whole other problem going on. Well, then you certainly shouldn't be setting up a restraining order over 13 weeks. I'm very sorry we didn't get that information. I assume that if the Secretary of State puts the thermometer in the waiting list at some point, he can do the same with regard to the available places. I also demand that of the Secretary of State in the future. I have no choice but to table a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, as long as there are waiting lists for nursing home care, to remove the maximation of thirteen weeks of bridging care and thus to ensure freedom of choice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34279-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. As the debate continued in the first period, it became more unclear to me what we are actually dealing with today and what its consequences are for the people involved. That is why I am still trying to clarify a number of things in my second term. First of all, orthocommunicative care for children with autism. The Secretary of State says that it has been shown that this concern is not proven to be effective and that it will therefore be stopped by 31 December 2016. I have two questions about this. The article that is inserted with the bill in the law does not contain a final deadline. That's weird. Why isn't that settled so it's clear? My other question is a substantive question. "Unproven effective' is the judgment reached in the context of the Health Insurance Act. That is a different concern to the kind of guidance you talk about when you talk about youth care. I would therefore like to have an explanation of this. When you say "not effective," you actually say to municipalities that they shouldn't give that care to children who live at home. Then what are you doing with the 38 intramural children and young adults who are now with Kentalis? What do you say to them? So I really need a little more explanation. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. Maybe she's redundant, but we don't have a third term. At least that's not common. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are children and young people with a so-called double problem: deaf and autistic or blind/poor and autistic;]] [[Whereas this is a very specific and small target group that needs special care and support;]] [[Whereas not every municipality is familiar with the care of these children, parents do not always know what to care for and is only present at certain institutions in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to ensure the care of this target group, both extramural and intramural, by letting VNG buy-in through a framework contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34279-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u7	Then there is the bridging care, the subject that was most on the agenda this morning. I don't think it's going around. It's not going around. Someone has a Wlz indication for care in kind, for inpatient care in an institution. This is often also necessary, because then you talk about people with such limitations. Older people with age limitations and dementia, children with multiple and intellectual disabilities, have to be placed internally. There's just no place. This bill now states that a healthcare office may search for a place within a reasonable distance with which the person is satisfied for thirteen weeks. Only the Secretary of State says he can't define that "reasonable distance." He says that it is an effort obligation for the care office to find such a place. If you ask what the sanction is for the care office to find that place too, the Secretary of State does not go beyond: yes, they have a duty of care. That duty of care is precisely about finding a place that people are satisfied with, within a reasonable distance. What's gonna happen later? I think this is what's gonna happen. After thirteen weeks or 26 weeks if my proposal is successful, because then you'll have a little longer time to find a place..................................................................................................................................... I believe that the situation will then arise that the Wlz care can stop, because it is either no longer effective, too expensive or can no longer be granted to the person concerned. And then what? Then the care might end up with the municipalities. In any case, it's a tragedy for the people about who it's about, because you're talking about people with severe limitations. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the sanction in this proposal that ensures that healthcare agencies find a place where someone is satisfied within a reasonable distance. I mentioned the example of the Saint Francis Care Centre in Gilze. Rooms are empty over there. They know a waiting list there, but the people on that waiting list aren't allowed in that room because the healthcare office didn't buy any care there. I want to hear from the Secretary of State what's happening so that people can go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u8	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u9	I see I've run out of time, but it's a law enforcement procedure, and in the first term, I had nine minutes left. So I hope you'll allow me to finish my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u10	I'm quite reasonable, but I'm gonna finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u11	I have a bit of a problem with that, because I still have one more topic to deal with, namely child care under supervision in relation to medical professional secrecy. The Secretary of State tells me that I don't have to worry because the only purpose of that article, which, in my opinion, breaks medical confidentiality, is that people can appeal against handing over confidential medical information. The Secretary of State then forgets that he declares another article applicable, namely the fourth paragraph. It says that a child care provider can ask a pediatrician, a juvenile physician or a psychiatrist to provide information. I think this is the lecture. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State again why it isn't. I think my analysis is correct. I also have an amendment ready, but I await the response in the second term. If I am not satisfied, I will table that amendment. That will maintain medical confidentiality. That was the last of it. I've also talked about profit payments at sleepover facilities...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u12	You will be saved because you will receive another question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u13	It is not about the distribution of profits, but about the possible breach of professional secrecy. When aid workers exchange information between themselves, do they all just have medical confidentiality? Medical professional secrecy applies to people who are not professionally involved with someone as a health care provider. The exchange of data between healthcare professionals is not a breach of medical professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u14	If so, it's an unnecessary article.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u15	I agree with Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u16	I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. Then I get to my last three sentences. I've been talking about the profit distribution. We have arranged with each other that this should not be done at care institutions that provide care with residence. I keep finding it weird that we chose to do that. There were a lot of other things in that bill that the CDA voted against. We thought this was a good part. Hence my question: why not sleepover facilities? In practice, this is becoming increasingly large institutions. I also have an amendment to that effect, but I will not do so until I am convinced in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u17	You went down the edges of time, or actually about it. It is very practical for the Secretary of State to be able to respond to amendments. Mrs Leijten also said that she had tabled an amendment. I heard from the Registry that it hasn't come in yet. That makes the treatment more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr President, you also know that sometimes there is some time between making and actually filing, because people here in the building may be doing something different and need to press a button. I think the amendment is coming up now. At the time I was going to do the talk, I said, "Please submit." I don't think we should make it bigger than it is. It's been asked for three times outside the microphone. It's just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u19	It's here now. I'm not making it bigger, I'm making it more practical. You may also table amendments after the end of the sitting, that is not the point. It's about the meeting order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers in the first term. There are two issues I would like to come back to in my second term: bridging care and house adjustments. We have talked extensively about bridging care in the first period. I agree with the question put by Mr Van Weyenberg. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, he says: the thirteen-week period for bridging care can be continued if people have still not found a place in the institution where they would like to live or if there is no place available at all. So that 13 weeks is not a hard limit. The criteria for this, including efficiency, do not apply beyond that thirteen-week period. I'd like a clear response from the Secretary of State. It can remove a lot of uncertainty as to whether this thirteen weeks is a hard limit or whether there is room in it to help people longer at home. My second comment concerns the amendment I have tabled. I think it is important that people, at the time they live at home, retain the trusted help they had under the Health Insurance Act and the Social Support Act, if they want to. This prevents people from having to deal with changing and different faces after the waiting period of care they had, and the moment they can go to an institution. That is not a small difference, as Mr Potters said in the first term, but it is very important and fundamental for people to be able to keep their trusted help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u21	I have a question about the previous point. I don't think we're here today when the Secretary of State says, "No, we'll have a good conversation." If no place has been found after thirteen weeks, then the so-called responsible and effective care requirement applies. In situations where the restriction is such that after those thirteen weeks it is no longer justified or effective to live at home, it is necessary to move at some point to 30, 40, 50, 60 kilometres away. What does the PvdA Group say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u22	I asked that question to the Secretary of State in the first place. In fact, I asked him explicitly whether the criteria mentioned by Mrs Keijzer no longer apply when these 13 weeks of bridging care are over. If that were the case, we would indeed find ourselves in the very strange situation that people suddenly called a number of speakers the example that in weeks 14 or 15 people would be eligible for a place in a care institution for two weeks to go to a place where they might not want to go at all. The answer of the Secretary of State was: no, even then these requirements do not apply and the bridging care of the first thirteen weeks is continued. Because I think it is a very important part of the legal process, Mrs Keijzer knows that the answers of the Secretary of State are part of the law and the legal history of the law. In the second period, it is clear once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Van Dijk always tells me that I am a lawyer, just like him, and also like the chairman. When I read that new article, I really see that for 13 weeks the right can be exercised with a modular package at home or a full package at home, without the conditions of efficiency and responsible care being met. The downside is that after these thirteen weeks there must be responsible and effective care again. So you can find yourself in a situation where someone has to move. I see Mr Van Dijk nodding, but surely it is also his responsibility as co-legislator to find that this law is not well structured and needs adaptation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u24	The moment the Secretary of State says "yes, you know, that's getting complicated," "that's gonna be too hard" or I know what, then Mrs Keijzer has a point. The law must be right, and that is why I, like Mr Van Weyenberg and you, have asked this question. We all want a clear answer from the Secretary of State. We are indeed co-legislators and we must make sure that what is on paper is true, but I do not think there is any difference of opinion as to the scope and purpose we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u25	Finally. If the Secretary of State is going to say the same thing as in the first term, do you then nod yes, but where is your responsibility to ensure that laws come through parliament that help people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u26	I believe that we are doing nothing but filing and debating laws. The parliamentary debate is also part of the legal history. That's something people have to hold onto. It's not just a talk session here. The answer that the Secretary of State is going to give here is fortunately part of the parliamentary debate and therefore also of what the law means and what it means. I had a second topic: the house adjustments. We thought bringing everything under the Wlz for people who get their care under the Wlz would be easier, but in practice there are many doubts about that. The Secretary of State has made a number of commitments on this matter. However, I think it is important to mark this and record it in a motion, if only because I cannot often table a motion together with Mr Van Weyenberg. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the present legislative proposal the government postpones the transfer of home adjustments, aids and household assistance for clients who receive care under the Long-Term Care Act but receive this care at home by means of a vpt, mpt or pgb;]] [[Whereas further understanding of the implications of the transfer, further preparation and coordination with actors is necessary;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate whether the transfer of home adjustments, tools and household assistance from the perspective of the clients affected by the transfer is desirable or necessary, and to inform the Court in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34279-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked about the bridging regime, in particular the thirteen-week deadline. How are you supposed to look at that? What exactly is settled? Much of the discussion is about what the value of this bridging arrangement is and what happens afterwards. That seems to me to be the essence of the discussion we have had. The main purpose of the bridging scheme is to ensure that care offices fulfil their duty of care in an adequate and timely manner, as we have also indicated in the further report. Perhaps it would be good for the legal history to point out just as clearly the passage I have devoted to it in the note on the report. The law talks about the thirteen-week bridging regime in which you can stretch those efficiency requirements a little bit. The debate here was about what happens now if the thirteen-week deadline is insufficient. This question has also been raised in connection with the report. I quote literally: "A maximum limit of 13 weeks is set for this bridging period. This limit is not extended because a wider border would weaken the care obligations of the healthcare office." We just switched that. Then it says, "That is not what the government is trying to do. Apart from that, the healthcare office remains responsible even after the 13 week period and must continue to provide responsible care, which may mean that in the home situation more care is employed than would have been the case in an institution." The transitional period is therefore subject to the conditions laid down in the law. In the light of the questions put by the Chamber, I have also indicated in the note on the report what the situation is after those thirteen weeks. In view of this observation and of the supervision by the Dutch Healthcare Authority of this obligation of care and the possibilities associated with it, I think that we have an adequate guarantee, as I say in reply to Mrs Keijzer's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u28	Yeah, but still. The law also states that the Wlz exporter provides a complete package at home or a modular package at home, unless the care cannot be provided in a responsible or efficient manner at the insured person's home. The members in which that statement states that their paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be resurrected after those thirteen weeks. Where do you stand as an insured person when the health care office says it's irresponsible and effective in your situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u29	In the law itself, we have set out the criteria to qualify for the Wlz. Mrs Keijzer also agreed. So you are always entitled to that care and you can get it in an institution but also in a folder or in vpt. I'm sorry about these abbreviations. In fact, we have said in the law that it would be a bit strange if that care at home would be much more expensive than the care in an institution; that is the question of efficiency. The second question is: can it still be at home, is it still responsible in a professional and substantive sense at home? That question is actually more important in practice. So you're entitled to that Wlz care. This can be in an institution or in the home situation with a modular package at home or a full package at home. But even then you will always have to look at how responsible that is still in the home situation. That could be in the financial sense. You look at the question of whether it's much more expensive than a nursing home. That consideration of "care home or home" is in the law. In addition, as far as I am concerned, that is even more important. You'll always have to make that assessment, whether it's bridging care or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u30	As a result, a person may find himself in a situation where, because it is no longer responsible or effective, he is obliged to move to a place he does not want to go. I'm struggling with that. How do you prevent that? We are in the process of legal treatment here, and so we must also talk about how we can ensure that in the law. I haven't heard that from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u31	That's secured by the way we've always secured it so far. The health insurers and the health offices have a duty of care. The Dutch Healthcare Authority looks at whether this duty of care is being complied with and can also appeal to the healthcare office with the corresponding sanctions. That's how we arranged it. If Mrs Keijzer says that she does not approve of this, she says retroactively that she does not approve of the law we have adopted. We've defined with each other that there's a bridging period. It's been extended a little bit. I mentioned in the note following the report that health care offices are still responsible for the responsible care after that, even in the home situation, even if this care is used more than would have been the case in an institution. That seems to me to be an adequate guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u32	The concern lies in the fact that the deadline of 13 weeks comes into the law. After these thirteen weeks, the regime is different than before, as the Secretary of State confirms in reply to Mrs Keijzer's questions. As a result, there is a chance that someone will go along with something in week 12 that they really do not think fit, because the solution that suits them best will only be available two or three months later. My concern remains that you will have to accept something sooner than in the old situation. That concern hasn't been taken away by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u33	Then I'll try to grind it a little more finely. Care will always have to be provided because someone has an indication under the Long-Term Care Act. We're talking about a situation where someone in those thirteen weeks got a little bit bigger care because they were waiting for a place in an institution. Mr Van Weyenberg asks what happens after the thirteen weeks. Someone doesn't fall back into his care. We will no longer talk about bridging care, so the healthcare office will have to consider, in consultation with the client, whether the modular package at home or the full package at home can be provided with the care that is adequate in the home situation in the note following the report, I have reported that this may be more than someone was given in such a home situation or, in the event that it is no longer justified at home, that there is an acute situation. I'll add one more suggestion, which might help in the ship owner's business. Healthcare offices have a review framework for what the home care assessments are. This is made every year, also for the care purchase of the following year. In this debate we talked about the bridging period and its widening. We've been discussing what happens after those 13 weeks. In the legal process, I said that even after the thirteen weeks, it is possible for the health offices to use more care than would have been the case in an institution. I can therefore imagine that as an additional guarantee, I will send to the Chamber the review framework for effective and responsible care at home, which the health care agencies use when buying care. For example, the Court can assess whether the review framework used by the healthcare offices in their assessment meets the wishes we have expressed and the demands we have made in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u34	I always think the latter is a good idea. My main concern, however, is that after these thirteen weeks there will be a different framework than before. This always means something in the conversation that can be held between the client and the healthcare office when that thirteen-week period comes to an end. If the situation becomes as described by the Secretary of State, I do not understand the opposition, for example, to my group's amendment to see the consultation between the health office and the client as an additional guarantee. This is without prejudice to the fact that the healthcare office must be called upon to do its utmost within thirteen weeks. We, and I believe the entire Chamber, wholeheartedly support the Secretary of State. Where that just doesn't fit and something else comes up, you have to make it more explicit to a client that he doesn't have to make a non-optimal choice under pressure from that thirteen-week limit when something becomes available in a month's time. According to the Secretary of State, this is not the intention of the law either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u35	I think we're all looking for the same safeguards. In assessing the amendments, I have indicated in particular that we must be careful to remove the pressure from the boiler. I sincerely believe that the healthcare office should do its utmost to ensure that an adequate place has been found during that thirteen-week period or good arrangements have been made as to how this care will be designed, other than in an institution. Deviating from that would be a little too easy for me because it puts the pressure on you to find a good place. I'd say that's a shame. That is my appreciation of the amendment, not because we are not looking for the same thing, but because I estimate the instrument for that in a slightly different way from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u36	The amendment states that it must be accepted by both parties. So the client can't do that alone. If it helps to explain in the explanatory statement that this always has to be on the client's initiative, in order to avoid the pressure from the boiler at the healthcare office, I would be happy to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u37	At the same time, there must be a balanced relationship. Let me take the other example. If quality care is no longer good in the home situation, it would not be good if under this pressure it was said that we are going to continue the situation, although we all feel that this is no longer justified and effective. I'd say that's a shame, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u38	With the indication you can get a mpt, a vpt, a bridging scheme or an exception to the effective and responsible care. These are four different regimes for people with an indication that would give them the right to care in an institution. Is the Secretary of State happy about this? Does he have the idea that he has made this a clear, concrete law which makes it clear when people are entitled to what kind of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u39	Perhaps it is something other than the way Mrs Leijten presents it. With the Long-Term Care Act, we have just arranged that you are entitled to intensive long-term care. We loosen the form of care more than just institution care. I think that's a big good. We say you have the right to intensive care; that can be in an institution, but that can also be in the home situation, with a full package at home or a modular package at home. I think this is a gain, because this means that you will then have more opportunities to connect more closely to the personal situation of the clients, even if you need long-term intensive care. I think that's valuable. That's point one. The second point is that I think it is important to keep the transition period as short as possible in the situation where things are no longer at home and so you are looking for a place in an institution, because it is no longer at home. I almost intuitively object to having to arrange with each other, when things are no longer at home, to try to make that last even longer. That doesn't seem right to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u40	The Secretary of State complicates everything he touches. That's why I indicated that there are four different arrangements to, if you have an indication for heavy care, because only then can you go to an institution to get that care at home, for whatever reason: because you can't go to the place where you want to live, because you have a family you want to stay with or because you're a child and your parents want you to stay at home. These are all reasons, but the fact that you have four different arrangements, with all different balancing frameworks, is unnecessarily complicated. That is the character of this Secretary of State and everything he submits to this Chamber. He can explain this in any way, but we also know how to take action. The ALS patient who received terminal home care and was not dead within thirteen weeks, at some point did not receive home care; then he should have died sooner. I didn't make this up; it was dealt with in this Chamber. At that time, we had to adopt a motion to drop that indicative limit. That's why I object to that border. I object to a change to 13 weeks, because I don't want anyone to go anywhere suddenly. That's what it's gonna be. I just want the Secretary of State to state that if you can't live in the institution of your choice, you just have to wait at home until there's a place, that he's gonna take care of it, and that you, your mother, your child or your partner are never forced to live somewhere you don't want to live. I just want a yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u41	Isn't that always the case? If you don't want to live somewhere, you're not gonna live there, are you? That's not the discussion at all. Now let's try not to shoot in that overdrive. No one can force anyone to live anywhere that person doesn't want to live. The discussion is about what conditions you get care at home. That's what the discussion is about, isn't it? It's not about compulsory living somewhere else, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u42	If you don't get care at home, you're gonna have to live somewhere else. That is the result of all this complicated regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mrs Leijten, I am sorry, but that is not the issue, because the right to care has been established. You have an indication and that leads to care in an institution or... that is a merit of the Long-Term Care Act.. to intensive care in the home situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u44	Provided it's effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u45	Those rules of the law always apply. If the costs are twice as high as the costs of care in an institution, can it be considered whether this is effective? It is also worth considering whether it is still qualitative, substantive and professionally justified. It is not a question of whether care is provided at all. Yes, care is always provided. The discussion is about whether you are looking for care in an institution if you want it and if you don't want that care at home, because you can arrange it in such a way as to have a bridging period and what happens during that bridging period. The debate then focused on the question of what happens next. So it's never about whether or not you're required to live somewhere and not about whether or not you get care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mrs. Leijten, this would be the fourth time. I really think that's too much. I refer you to the second term or perhaps to another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u47	This is the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u48	You're absolutely right. Can you check: this is such a basic debate that I thought we were in the first term. This should actually be a round-off. I really give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u49	I think it's a profit that there are multiple forms of delivery, like the vpt and the mpt. In the case of legal treatment, we have also made it possible, even if care is more ineffective than care in an institution, to provide more inefficient care at home in particular situations. However, that is not what my question is about. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's comment and question. I have to admit that I too am struggling a bit with the fact that the law we are dealing with here says that after thirteen weeks, the bridge regime will lapse. Actually, I hear the Secretary of State here saying he wants the same thing as the Chamber wants. So I'm kind of looking for a little getting together. I am looking, for example, at Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment or Mrs Keijzer's amendment. What suggestions does the Secretary of State make and what objection is there to doing what the Chamber wants and what the Cabinet wants? Then we'll get together. I don't think we have much of a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u50	I think so, too. Firstly, I have tried to point out, including in this legal process, that after that thirteen-week period a healthcare office can decide to continue to provide care and also to give more than in that first period. Secondly, I have indicated that the period of bridging care should be as short as possible. But let me say in advance that I am very willing, if we seem to think that we want to speak even more clearly what we mean, to see if there is a way to find a way. I believe that, with the text before us and with what has been said in the legal process, there are sufficient possibilities. We should then consider whether, for example, Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment can be adapted to reflect the opinion of the Chamber to a sufficient extent. We should take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u51	I am not talking about Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u52	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u53	...but I certainly tasted the willingness to record what we mean by each other here. I should also like to look at Mr Van Weyenberg in this regard. Because we are in the process of legal treatment, I think it is good to lay down what we mean in the law, so as to avoid confusion about what happens after those thirteen weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u54	I can understand that. I have indicated that we are looking at several ways to ensure that this can be secured. If the feeling of the Chamber is that, apart from the legal treatment, we could write it down a little better, then I am very willing to look at it together with the proposers to see if that can be properly interpreted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mrs. Keijzer, you'd like to interrupt, but just a moment. There can now be no appreciation of a possibly modified amendment. In any case, the amendment as it stands is not supported by the cabinet. Is this voting still possible on Tuesday or should we move it over for a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u56	I would actually like to try to be able to do so next Tuesday, but of course I am not going to go over the agenda of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u57	We also have Good Friday and Easter Day. So I don't think we should do that. There's just no people at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u58	I do not think it would be wise, if it is not harmful, to vote on it a week later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u59	I always want to give it a try, but I can also imagine that we will look at wisdom just before voting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u60	The Secretary of State just formulated his "vanrijnian." He said that we can write it down so that... for me, however, it is necessary that we regulate it legally with each other, because after the expiry of the transitional period, paragraphs 3 and 4 on responsible and efficient care simply come back into effect. It says: "The third and fourth paragraphs shall apply mutatis mutandis to the withdrawal of a decision to provide a complete package at home or a modular package at home." I attach great importance to it and to me and to my group it is very important that we not only describe it in a fine way in a letter, but that we ensure it legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u61	At that point, Mrs Keijzer just found me by her side. I am not going to ask another question, but I assume she does not mean that the test on efficiency and responsible care, which we have regulated in the law, will never apply. That, I think, will not be Mrs Keijzer's intention. But, again, it depends a little on how a possible amendment will be formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u62	In the first term, I asked the Secretary of State if he was prepared to include in the ministerial regulation that, if it is no longer justified and effective to stay at home, a place for such a person would be made available in an empty room in a nursing home or a nursing home. That's the other side of this circle. Whichever half it is, I don't care, but I don't want to be here after three-quarters of a year with very sad letters from relatives of people who were placed 60 miles away because it couldn't be home anymore and the health office wasn't willing to buy anything closer to home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u63	In conclusion, I would like to say the following. We are prepared to consider the wording of an amendment, if the authors so wish. I am also prepared to try to send a letter to the Chamber before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u64	I would ask you to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u65	I come to a number of questions put by Mr Van Weyenberg on another point: the role of the child justice in closed youth aid. It is true that there is always a judge's decision. Mr Van Weyenberg points out the situation that the judge nevertheless says: I give you an authorisation and you can apply it when I do not comply with the conditions I have set. Mr Van Weyenberg says that there will be a prior check in itself, but that it will depend on the assessment of exceeding the conditions when you allow the closed recording. I think there is a careful procedure in itself, because it is thought in advance: there is a closed recording, unless you comply with these conditions. So that's what you communicated in advance. I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg is asking me whether I would like to take a closer look at how many of these cases occur, whether it is increasing or decreasing and how we are opposed to it. I want to promise that. I wouldn't want to fall back on the old system, because that means you can actually only go to court. The judge will then authorize a closed recording. The great advantage of this procedure is that you can make it conditional. This means that the behaviour of young people also influences the decision to accept them. That seems essential to me. If the youth doesn't agree, then he can go to court. However, I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's concern and I am prepared to look into this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u66	I thank the Secretary of State for that commitment. Does he also want to indicate how many times someone goes to court? I would also ask him to comment on the legal concerns of my group regarding the final choice. There's always a trade-off from a professional underneath that. How are we supposed to weigh them in legal terms? The position of the Secretary of State is clear, but I would appreciate it if he could take that into account again in the letter and include the legal 'test'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u67	I would like to take that with me, because that is, of course, linked to the question of whether a responsible assessment of the conditions is being made. I think that is the concern of Mr Van Weyenberg. I'll take that with me. Mrs Keijzer asked about professional secrecy. I'd like to see if I understand her question even better. From her reaction, I would point out that she refers to Article 7.3.11, fourth paragraph of the Youth Act, which lays down the obligation of information to family guardians. That is nothing new, because that was already regulated in the legislation adopted by the legislator in the revision of child protection measures prior to the Youth Act. This obligation of information is not contained in the WGBO, but should also apply to the providers of medical treatment; Mrs Leijten also referred to it. Therefore, the proposed amendment to Article 7.3.11, fourth paragraph, provides that it also applies to the people who carry out the WGBO, i.e. those who do the treatment. The exchange of information is indeed on the agenda. Mrs Keijzer also asked a question about the distribution of profits. In the debate on profit distribution, the distinction was made between intramural and extramural. Where do you stay long and where do you not stay long or not long? That distinction was made then. The accommodation is not an inpatient care, as stated in the bill. That is the simple reason why the profit distribution barrier does not apply. By the way, it doesn't matter if you're big or small. In the first term, I pointed out that it would also be strange to suddenly introduce a profit-sharing ban on the multitude of institutions providing extra-mural care. We have already discussed this in the House of Representatives. That would have enormous consequences for the health care delivery at all. I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u68	In the meantime, I would like to inform you that Mrs Leijten has apologized for making urgent appointments elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mrs Keijzer also asked about Kentalis. Indeed, this is intended to provide a basis for the grant that can be given in the situation of conditional admission. The subsidy scheme is expected to end in 2016. There may still be a lead time, so we do not yet know exactly when the subsidy scheme will end, but it is therefore finite, expected in 2016. The core of the advice of the Healthcare Institute is that it is not an effective performance. It also offers no relevant distinction with what is already offered in the atmosphere of the ggz. In that sense, there is no reason to see this as a separate performance or a separate product that we should now purchase nationally. In fact, the core of the advice of the Healthcare Institute is that it does not have any additional added value compared to the products already given in the outpatient ggz. That's one. The second is that I want to look very closely at whether there is a proper guarantee for the children, whether they are extracurricular or intramural. Mrs Keijzer indicated that she understood that the extramural agreement was well agreed, but asked whether that would also apply to the internal side. I am very willing to pay particular attention to this. There must also be good care for children who are intramural. I will understand that with the relevant municipalities, and if necessary with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u70	I filed a motion. The Secretary of State says he'll keep an eye on it, but what happens to the 38 children and young adults who still live intramurally at Kentalis? What am I supposed to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u71	Very good agreements will have to be made on the continuity of care these children need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u72	Then what is the State Secretary's opinion on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'll get to that in a minute. Maybe I should start the motions now. In the motion in part No. 15 The government is asked to guarantee that people are not forced to live somewhere where they do not want to live. Given the debate and the assumption behind this, the government cannot force people to live anywhere they do not want to live. That's why I'm dissuading her. In the motion in part No. 16 The government is asked to ensure that testable criteria are established for the concept of reasonable distance. We have had the necessary exchange of views in the debate. The essence of this reasonableness is that you have to assess this in individual cases. So there will always be situations where there isn't a place right away. Then we must choose whether we want to stay at home or whether we want to make concessions. This really needs to be done in consultation between clients and the healthcare office. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 17 The government is asked to remove the maximation of thirteen weeks of bridging care as long as there are waiting lists for nursing care and thus to ensure freedom of choice. I have just said that I am prepared to find a wording that expresses what we all find. I think that is a better way than removing the thirteen weeks of bridging care, because it was precisely to ensure that the duty of care can be fulfilled within a reasonable time. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u74	The Secretary of State pretends to meet me with that, but that is not the case. The only way he can respond to me is to clarify the number of places available. We talked about the waiting lists. About 13,000 people are waiting for a place in a nursing home or a disabled institution. We do not know how many places available, but that is important in the context of waiting. If the Secretary of State says he's gonna make that clear from now on, he's gonna meet me. The final poll is from October 2015. He could also take the number of free spaces with him at the next poll, so that we can make an assessment. Then he'll meet me. Then he could still discourage the motion, but then he'd have to meet me and not someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u75	I do not think we fully agree on the importance of the figures. Even if we were to ask at all the institutions today how many empty spaces there are, that would be a picture of this moment that tomorrow is obsolete and cannot be associated with the people who are on the waiting list for very different reasons. Sometimes they wait for a place of their preference. Sometimes they probably want an indication, but they don't have to because they still live at home. Sometimes they want something very acute. I understand that Mrs Agema is asking for the matching of figures, but I do not think we agree. As far as I'm concerned, they're not going to give me any more insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u76	This really doesn't make any sense. The Secretary of State is apparently unwilling to explain how many places are available at any time. We do not know what the current status of the number of waiting people is, because this stand was made in October 2015. We will continue to work with this old information until we get a new stand from the Secretary of State. I ask him not only to take the number of people waiting for a place in a nursing home or a disabled institution, but also how many places are available. And why is that so important? If there are 13,000 people waiting and there are about 13,000 places available, you can still try to manage that a little bit, but if there are only 5,000 places or zero places, the Secretary of State is arranging for coercions after thirteen weeks. It is crucial to know and assess this. I can't judge that until the Secretary of State meets me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u77	Even if we had an online insight into the number of places that are available at any time and the number of people waiting at any time, we still can't manage that. The spread across the country is such that it is impossible to have a place available anywhere at the time when a waiting will. That is precisely the reason why you will have to come up with a form of bridging care in any system. Sometimes because there is no place available and sometimes because there is no place available in the setting of preference. Whatever you want, there will always have to be a form of bridging in the period when you wait for a place in an institution. That is also very good, because this means that people can get the care they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr. Chairman. I know it's not supposed to be, but I haven't asked any questions yet in the second term. Doesn't the Secretary of State have that information or does he not want to give it to the Chamber? We should be able to get some indication, right? If there are about 13,000 free places and about 13,000 people looking for a place, there must be something to settle. But if the Secretary of State simply has no places and does not give us that information, a more serious situation has arisen. We need to be able to keep a finger on the wrist and ask the Secretary of State: how many places are you going to build, why do you arrange new places...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u79	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u80	My point is clear, but the Secretary of State does not answer. Doesn't he have figures on available places, does he not give them, or can he give an indication that it's the same every now and then? That gives you confidence. If he says that there are about as many places available as there are waiting, that's quite another thing than I have to guess if there are zero or maybe 15,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u81	We have a pretty good view of the number of people waiting, because they are on the website of the Zorginstituut every month. However, we do not have any information about the number of free spaces and they also fluctuate day by day. So it is also my view that this is no use to us. Even if it would be in balance at some point that changes, of course, because it depends on people's stay time in an institution, then you still can't connect it because 100 places in Groningen may not match two places you need in Maastricht.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mrs Keijzer, before I give you the floor, I would point out that Members, with the exception of Mr Van Dijk, have had a three-way interruption. We are now going back to the basic rule: an interruption in two. Apologies, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u83	I support Mrs Agema. I understand what the Secretary of State says, which is fluctuating, also because people die. Unfortunately, that happens to all of us eventually. But it's got to be possible to give us a peek, right? Give me the number of free spots on January 10th and March 10th of this year. It's gotta be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u84	We could theoretically, and perhaps practically, ask around all the institutions to find out how many free spaces they have, but that is not helpful. The next day, those free spots could be half filled again. The situation is not that there are free places in the Netherlands where people are waiting to fill them. That situation will never arise. At the time I was going to give you the state of that tour, the reliability of which can be questioned, you already have another problem the day after because the overview is no longer correct. The best way to track how things are going is through the list of people waiting on the website of the Zorginstituut and the progress of those waiting lists over time. We have agreed that we are going to make two moves. Care agencies will look much more closely at what exactly is on the waiting list so that they can focus their procurement much more on what people want and where people want to go. In a more general sense, we have the discussion about the next person's funding and the possibility of changing the buying-in of care so that the budgets follow the people. That's how you tackle that problem. Any other approach has no added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u85	Everything the Secretary of State says is true, because that is how it works with placing people, but at the same time there must be a picture of what is free on January 10th and on March 10th. Then you get a little feeling in how many places people can appeal when the bridge care stops after 13 weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u86	That's exactly the point. That information just doesn't give it. A photograph of the free spaces at any time has nothing to do with how that freedom was created. They may be filled again the next day, so that there are completely different places. You can't make that match. I do not think we can agree on the usefulness of that information. Then I come to the Keijzer motion in part No. 19, which asks to ensure care for the target group, both extramural and intramural, by having care purchased through a framework contract with the VNG. It's about Kentalis' care. I have argued that there is no reason to arrange central purchasing, given the advice of Zorginstituut Nederland. However, there is a willingness to ensure that the children can continue to receive the care they need, both extramural and intramural. In the motion in part No. 20 is asked to investigate whether the transfer of home adjustments, aids and domestic assistance is desirable and whether adjustment of this transfer is necessary. It was like I was reading my first-term contribution. I will describe this as an explicit, almost verbatim support of the policy. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u87	There is another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u88	That's right. By the way, we have a new variant. The Secretary of State can take over a motion. Then we don't have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u89	That is an SGP proposal to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u90	Maybe that'll help with the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u91	If you stick to the motions, I'll stick to my explanation. A little separation of powers might be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u92	He doesn't want to do any good today, Mr. Chairman. I still have a question about that motion. I understand the verdict is: dissuade. The Secretary of State says he's gonna bail and pay attention and all that stuff. When can he inform the Chamber of what will happen to those 38 children with autism, who are visually impaired and hearing impaired, or more seriously, who now live with Kentalis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u93	I'll try to do that in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u94	Then I'll wait for that message from the Secretary of State and then I'll want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u95	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (34279, No. 19). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u96	The Secretary of State has already said that the motion in part No. 20 Judgment Room is. Then we may have amendments to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u97	According to my accounting, there is one amendment; in part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u98	I see that Mr Van Dijk has another question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yeah, about the motion on part number one. 20. It is indeed possible that motions will now be taken over. It would be extraordinary if this motion were to be taken over first in our parliamentary history. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg and I have been talking about. The Secretary of State is therefore the first. I don't almost want to invite him, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u100	That can't be true. He says to me, "I'm in charge of my own judgment, and now he's falling over?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u101	I'll ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u102	I think that's actually very nice. I'd be glad if the Secretary of State did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u103	Yes, as chairman, I think this is also a wonderful time to embrace this new point in the Rules of Procedure. The motion will then no longer be part of the debate, as the cabinet has made it its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u104	I do not know if I am going to sit at the seat of the President, but I would like to know if some other Members of Parliament also believe that this should be the first movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u105	Actually, I was already craving it. I think it would be a very nice move if the Secretary of State took over this motion. I would like to extend it to my colleagues. It's fine to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u106	No objection at all, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u107	I accept this motion, with the remark that it is not a precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u108	I note that the Otwin van Dijk/Van Weyenberg motion (34279, No. 20) is taken over. I congratulate the Chamber on this unique moment, in particular the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u109	Finally, I should like to comment on the amendment to item No. 18, which seeks to remove the criterion of effectiveness. I object to that. In the law, we have explicitly agreed with each other that efficiency and quality are part of the assessment of whether good care can be provided. The Long-Term Care Act is for the heaviest forms of care, so intensive and complex. It does not therefore seem appropriate to me to assume that this care can be organized in all cases and always at home. I am in favour of it happening at home as much as possible, but it will not be possible in all cases. So that question always remains a point of discussion. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u110	It's open for a while when we're going to vote. I understand from Mr Van Weyenberg that this could be done on Tuesday and that if that is not possible, we will continue voting by then. That means voting on Tuesday in principle. As it is a working day tomorrow, I assume that amendments and possible amendments can still be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u111	I have talked about medical professional secrecy and the change in the subject of supervised minors. The Secretary of State gave a first-term reply that didn't reassure me. In the second term, he quickly mentioned a number of articles of law. However, I have to study it first to determine whether I am convinced of it. That is not so much a problem for me, but the point is that on Fridays and Mondays Bureau of Legislation does not work; at least I understand that, but I see the people of the Registry now looking questionable. In any case, it is important to me that there is sufficient time to submit the amendment, if I consider it necessary, and to allow colleagues to take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-8.u112	I would ask you to go straight to the Bureau of Legislation this afternoon. I now hear from the Registry that she is working tomorrow; it is a working day tomorrow.
