ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Nieuwe Rotterdamse Courant reported yesterday that a sleeping Islamic terrorist cell was present at an asylum-seekers' centre in Nijmegen and that its members had come to the Netherlands and Germany via the asylum flow. They had come to the Nijmegen of mayor and PVV hater Hubert Bruls. When it really came to it and when he really had to take care of his people, he was the one who was sleeping instead of that terrorist cell. In Nijmegen care homes were closed to scare the elderly out and to leave asylum seekers and perhaps also jihadists and terrorists in it. Saleh A. I would almost say: the next Saleh A.; that's not really a Dutch name.. ran over and reported this story to the French police, because the prospect of the 72 virgins left for him a little too long. He told us that twenty bloodthirsty Muslims are ready to attack when the signal from Islamic State would be given. The fact that this terrorist scum is present or was present on Dutch soil, apparently unscreened, I ask the Minister how it is due to the open border policy of this minister, of Prime Minister Rutte and of his German aunt Angela, supported by the choir of second- and third-rate BN'ers, who, together with naive "good people" "you are welcome," was also supported by types like EU MEP Judith Sargentini, who called this all "hysteria" last year. Does the Minister share this analysis? When the flow of asylum via the Mediterranean was still barely in progress, I warned twice in Question Time for jihadists who came along in the asylum stream. That was two years ago, in September 2014. There were enough signals at the time, but the minister at the time turned out to be deaf. The NCTV was deaf for that too. Very politically correct The Netherlands denied what we said, but we were right; the PVV was right. Is the Minister prepared to recognise this right from the PVV? If not, why not? Finally, I have two questions. So I say that there have been enough signs that jihadists have come to the Netherlands with the flow of asylum. Does the Minister recognise that we were lucky to have one defected and that this was not due to the cooperation between the services in the EU? Is the Minister prepared to finally close the borders and not leave an asylum seeker with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr De Graaf for asking these questions. The answer is difficult, because it is an ongoing investigation, but I will do my best to share as much as possible. On 2 June last. Three persons have been arrested in Germany who are suspected of preparing an attack. The arrests followed from statements made by a Syrian man imprisoned in France. Media reports state that there is an attack plot involving persons residing in Dutch asylum centres. I therefore understand where the concern behind Mr De Graaf's question comes from. I can report that the information is known to us. This kind of information is obviously being investigated, but I do not make any announcements about ongoing investigations, as Mr De Graaf understands. I can say that international information is being shared in such cases. This is done at all levels, not only at the level of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also, of course, at the level of our security services. In general, I can say that the Dutch government, including those same security services, is alert to signals of abuse of the flow of migrants and asylum procedures by jihadists. We have also made an explicit reference to this in a number of reports sent to the Chamber on the threat of terrorism. If there is cause, there is, of course, a thorough investigation. We cannot exclude the fact that, despite all our precautions, terrorists manage to abuse the Dutch asylum procedure or the flow of refugees, but international information is shared and also coordinated. That's definitely a good thing. At the same time, this case again confirms the concerns of terrorists' travel movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have just listened to a summary of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism, which we have already discussed in the Chamber about thirty times, but I have not had any answers to my questions. Where the Minister says it's so beautiful that we work together internationally, it's important that it's not so beautiful at all. The Minister uses the wrong words, because despite this cooperation, these people snuck in. One regretant just happened to talk. So we slipped through the eye of the needle. That's not because of the service's work, but because someone has started talking, who can't wait for his 72 virgins. I asked the Minister if he shares my analysis that it is because of the open border policy. I asked him if he was prepared to acknowledge the right of the PVV two years ago. Is the Minister willing to acknowledge that we were lucky? Is he willing to close the borders so no more asylum seekers come? Those are some of the questions I asked, but I do have a few more. In fact, Secretary of State Dijkhoff said at one point that the flow of asylum is not the most appropriate way of getting into Europe. So many jihadists have now been arrested in Europe and there are so many signs that they have all entered Europe through the asylum stream and also the Netherlands. We've had the attack in Brussels. We've had the attack in Paris. How long will the minister and the government continue to risk the lives of many Dutch people through the open borders? That is the seriousness of the matter. I didn't get an answer. So I'd like to give the Minister a second try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	Let me begin with the point of closing the borders. Mr De Graaf and many of his fellow speakers from the PVV Group in the Chamber have asked this question to various ministers in all areas. The answer to this is always the same, namely that we are aware of the risks, but at the same time we realise that closing the borders does not provide a solution, even though the fact that we have made international agreements with each other is not possible either. But it does not solve the problem we are dealing with either. So I cannot answer some of the questions that Mr De Graaf is asking again, because they are about an ongoing investigation. So if I were to go into that, Mr De Graaf would put me in the position of talking about the content of an ongoing investigation. I can't and can't do that, and I won't. I can say that we are very aware of the risk of terrorists using the asylum flow. This is not only news today, but it has also been demonstrated by the attacks in Paris. We have seen this in an earlier case in Germany. The same concern also lives in the Netherlands. We're doing everything we can to make sure that we get a look at these people as soon as possible where we can. That's a big challenge, but we're totally into it. We have also informed the Chamber quite extensively about the way in which we do exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	You have nineteen seconds, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	I'm definitely gonna take advantage of that, Mr. Chairman. Again: once again, the questions have not been answered. Of course, the Minister says that the investigation is ongoing and that he cannot answer questions about it, but also the questions he does not want to answer, he mentions questions to which he cannot answer. But I've asked very different questions. Is the Minister prepared to close the borders? Is he willing to agree with the PVV? And is he willing to stop messing with the lives of many Dutch people and no longer rely on one defector who happens to open his mouth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	The first question, about borders, I have answered in detail. Exactly the other two questions are linked to the ongoing investigation into this particular case. So I cannot answer that, but as soon as I can, of course, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	The Minister can't talk about an ongoing investigation. I understand that, but my question is about something else. What happens after the identity of a refugee has been established? Is it automatically linked between the police, the Foreign Police Department, Identification and Trafficking, the IND, the NCTV, the Trafficking and Trafficking Expertise Centre and the AIVD? Is there an automatic link to see if the person who entered has been spotted and we should be worried? If that is established, there can also be action. So I'm very curious about that. If the Minister is not ready now, I would very much like a comprehensive written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	Fortunately, I can reassure Mrs Keijzer on this legitimate question. There are many measures, on which we have also sent a letter to the Chamber following the discussion about screening. Let me give you a few examples. All the names of all asylum seekers entering the Netherlands are compared with the entire police registration system, with the terrorism registers and with the Schengen Information System. So if any of those people are known, that name will come up from there. Then there will be further investigation. In addition, there is of course no waiting for that list, because you can also receive a suspicious signal about someone who is not on that list. This is also the subject of a thorough investigation. If there is reason to believe that further research is needed, this will also be done, including the reading of any data carriers, because that is one of the ways of looking at whether there might be something going on with someone. Where necessary, these steps will therefore be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	Many people have entered Europe and the Netherlands fleeing jihadists, but we must realise that there are people with jihadist sympathies among them. That's what we said to each other from the beginning. We need to screen that very carefully. It took a while before that screening really started. To what extent has the delay been made and made up in the early days, when screening was still completely inadequate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	That is a fair question from Mr Van der Staaij. In the letter that the Secretary of State and I sent together to the Chamber about this process, we reported that, with retroactive effect, all refugees arrived in the Netherlands from 1 January 2015 have been retraced by the same systems, to see if there was any reason to carry out further research. So that catch-up took place. It was carried out by the national police. At the same time, we wanted to know whether the screening process would continue well. That is why we asked the inspection to repeat the two inspections in February and April. Then we wanted to take the step forward: okay, fine, we did that screening, but what do we do with the information that comes out of it? We will, of course, inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	I ask the question again on behalf of the PVV Group: why is the cabinet waiting for an attack in the Netherlands? It is clear that terrorists are hitchhiking the asylum flow to the Netherlands, and then you have to act. Then you must not wait; then you must close the Dutch borders for all asylum seekers. Otherwise, again, it's waiting for an attack. Why doesn't the Cabinet do anything? Why does the cabinet not close the borders for all asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	For the record, I also say to Mr Fritsma that the cabinet is not waiting for an attack, as he says. The Cabinet is doing everything it can, in all possible ways, to minimise the risk of an attack. Nevertheless, we know that our threat level is substantial at the moment, which means that we take into account the possibility of an attack. I have just said to Mr De Graaf, and I have done so in many other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	Finally, a second question from Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u15	With all due respect, that's bullshit. We know that asylum seekers can come to the Netherlands. Half of them do not even carry a passport and are completely unregistered. So we don't even know who we're letting in, apart from the point that screening isn't in order. The gates are wide open, allowing Jan and alleman to enter. By the way, they are often called not Jan, but Muhammad. There are jihadists and terrorists in between. We know that, because that has already been proven by previous attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u16	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u17	Why is the cabinet blind to that? If you close the borders, no longer allow asylum seekers and the asylum procedure and asylum reception stop, of course, the entry of terrorists will also stop. That's for the Cabinet to take care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u18	Your question must be brief, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr Fritsma's question is actually the same as before. Let me repeat that screening is in order and that a catch-up has been made, as I said to Mr Van der Staaij. The Dutch government is very alert to the possible risks and the possibility of terrorists hiding in the refugee stream and possibly in the asylum procedure. We'll do everything we can to find out early. However, we cannot guarantee that there could never be an attack in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u20	I think it is clear and clear that it has been difficult for many years to identify people, especially if they are undocumented. We also have no record of all jihadists worldwide. I understand the challenge facing this minister very well, and that is why I indicated last year that the current asylum and migration system is completely untenable. That's not just because of the numbers, but especially because of the fact that you don't know who you're letting in in advance. The last JHA Council under the Dutch Presidency will take place this week. Is the Minister prepared to draw attention to this problem from a security point of view during that Council? We really need to move towards a fundamentally different system, such as the agreements we recently made with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u21	With regard to the agreements with Turkey, we are busy making agreements to shed our security, and we are doing so not only bilaterally, but also at European level. I can also inform Mr Azmani that the number of names of potential jihadists included in our systems has increased enormously in recent months, partly thanks to the commitment of our Presidency. I'm very happy about that. We will, of course, have a wide-ranging exchange of views on this issue at the JHA Council. Under our Presidency, we presented a very concrete plan precisely because we want to further strengthen and extend the exchange of information between the different Member States at this risk. I hope that this will also be supported by the Member States so that we can implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u22	Terrorists have many opportunities to enter our country and stay here, including by hiding in asylum seekers' centres. The Minister cannot say everything about the investigation, but I have a very specific question which he should be able to answer. Was this new cell, Nijmegen-Düsseldorf, in the picture with the secret services, or did we depend on a person who spoke his mouth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr Van Raak is absolutely right that you can answer some of the questions, but that certainly does not apply to this question. Mr Van Raak will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u24	The Labour Party has often called for attention to be paid to so-called "sleeper cells" or dormant cells. I experience the danger, particularly from the questions of the right-wing parties, that we are only looking at the asylum influx, while sleeping cells can of course also arise in a different way. I can remember, for example, that a Frenchman was grabbed from his bed in his apartment in Rotterdam. Of course, the Minister cannot really give a substantive answer on this issue, but can he assure us that not only does the asylum influx be looked at by blind eye, but that the security services will also look much more broadly at where dormant cells can reside?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-5.u25	Of course, Mr Recourt is quite right about that. He also referred to the terrible experiences of the attacks in Brussels and Paris. For many of the attackers, they did not end up in the asylum influx at all, but were simply resident in Belgium or France. In this respect, the focus of the police and security services is, of course, very broad. We take everything into account. There's no other way. The Chamber has been able to read this in the analyses we have sent to it over time.
