ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	The abbreviation "DNB" stands for "the Nederlandsche Bank" and the abbreviation "AFM" stands for "Financial Markets Authority." I note that all players are now present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to two points. First of all, I have a question for the Minister about the re-evaluation of the percentage of market contributions for continuous monitoring by category. The minister says he wants to re-evaluate it. I would like to be clear that this will happen before 1 January 2018. I also have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the supervisory costs of AFM and DNB have increased significantly in recent years;]] [[I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. 11) aims to curb uncontrolled growth in supervisory costs in the financial sector;]] [[noting that the flexible shell, as proposed in the new cost framework, is not in line with this amendment on cost control;]] [[Considering that the flexibility of the cost framework is an incentive for additional expenditure, as it is additional flexibility in addition to the allocated supervisory budget;]] [[noting that the increase in supervisory costs is mainly a heavy burden on SMEs;]] [[calls on the government to remove the flexible skin in the AFM and DNB cost frameworks and to revert to the principle of applying or explaining the Aukje de Vries amendment (33957, No. (11) as part of new tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33957-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	Does the Minister want the motion in writing or has he already been able to consume it? You will be presented with the motion as soon as possible. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister, but only after I have warmly welcomed him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. One question and one motion. Mrs De Vries' question concerns the re-evaluation of the contribution of market players to supervisory costs. She asks if it is ready before 1 January 2018. Yes, that's the case. The plan is to have it ready in the autumn of next year. We will inform the Chamber. The motion calls into question the principle of the flexible shell. I would suggest to the House that we embrace that flexible shell as a good idea. With the Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM, we establish a cost framework for a longer period of time. We now also see with them that there is an efficiency task; they have to save costs over the years. They accept that, too. That leaves us with two main points. Sometimes they get really big new tasks through new legislation that can be national or European....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We shall then take a separate decision on this matter. The letter also states this about the extension of the scope of the tasks. Sometimes there are also minor adjustments, for example, which arise from a motion in which the Chamber asks for an extra accent in the supervision or to pay attention to... or to investigate... Then we should not talk to the supervisor every time about the cost, where it is in the formation and whether extra money is needed. Some flexibility is really necessary and meaningful. Does this mean that we are going to increase the cost framework? No, not at all, because efficiency savings are set at 10.7 million. The flexible shell takes part of that back, rising to 6.9 million. All in all, the cost framework is shrinking on a multiannual basis. And that is pretty good at a time when the Chamber, the legislator, and Europe are still regulating the financial sector. All in all, therefore, I think that we are doing well to keep those costs under control, which can even be demonstrably reduced and to create some room for flexibility within them. I think this is also in the interests of the Chamber. I therefore advise against adopting the motion, either: I hope that I have convinced Mrs De Vries that the motion may not have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	We're gonna hear this. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	In fact, in no way, on the contrary: I have only become more worried. I understand that there is a need for flexibility. I understand that some issues cannot be resolved by the supervisor within the existing financial frameworks. But that flexibility is already available. If the Minister says that he does not want to have a continuous discussion about all these small things, we are indeed going towards unbridled growth, and I find this particularly undesirable for SMEs. In fact, I do not hear the Minister about this, so I would like to hear him about the increasing regulatory burden on SMEs, because I do see it as a major problem. The amendment tabled at the time maintains this flexibility but also sets a regional ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	You ask for further advice from the Minister on your motion and you are actually discussing it with him. That's not exactly the point. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	We take into account the extent and intensity of the necessary supervision when allocating costs to the various market players. So there is already a real differentiation between smaller companies and larger companies. And, as I said, we're going to recalibrate. That could also lead to a redeployment. That's what we're gonna do next year, so we're really paying attention to that. Mrs De Vries and I have no disagreement about this. However, I think it makes sense, while we are steering towards reducing costs, we are also showing that this is happening in the coming years, and I am doing so, encouraged by Mrs De Vries, who keeps saying: pay attention to these supervisory costs, which must be reduced, so that the budget is not completely blocked and that we must always discuss where the extra money is to come from by small addition or modification of supervision, supervisory tasks and supervisory priorities. It seems to me to be a good idea, in consultation with the supervisory authorities, to assume some identifiable flexibility, of course, you can say that it has always been in it, with which we thus state: this is the flexible shell. If there are small wishes, additions, etc., then they must come from it. So you should not make the point every time: yes, but we need more budget now. So I really think it's wise to steer on the main line. That main line is lowering costs and looking at the distribution of small businesses and large companies. We are already doing that, and we are going to do that again, and we are also agreeing on a defined flexibility within which smaller changes need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	I don't hear another verdict on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	No, I'm persevering against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	This brings us to the end of the answer given by the cabinet. I propose that we vote on this motion tomorrow.
