ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u1	I welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and I give the floor to Mrs Helder. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u2	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll start soon. During the debate on the re-evaluation of the implementation of the national police on 10 September last year, the Minister undertook to investigate the planned cuts in all areas. The central question was: can the national police carry out the reorganisation and its work within its budget? The conclusion is that in 2016 there will be a financial gap of no less than 170 million euros, rising to 292 million in 2020, between what the police gets and what they really need. The Chamber already felt the mood, and that is why a motion was adopted last year when the budget was discussed asking the Minister to ensure that the spring note contains sufficient resources so that the police can continue to carry out their primary tasks. The Spring note received 188 million, and Minister Dijsselbloem's idiotic remark "that the executives of the service parts can also just tackle the problems instead of just asking for money in the newspaper." However, this minister can do some of it. Firstly, he does not carry out the motion adopted by the Chamber. There is no doubt that there will be less money than is necessary to continue to do the primary tasks. Secondly, the Minister is only half-truthful, because he does not say that the amount of 188 million is intended for the following items: 49 million for the costs associated with a higher asylum flow, 43 million for a new police cao and 10 million for the short-term effects of the Contours note strengthening detection. In total, this amounts to 102 million. For closing the financial gap, there is 86 million euros left. As I said, the investigation report showed that in 2016 an amount of 170 million is needed, excluding those three items that I have just mentioned. In the period up to 2020, the financial gap is as high as EUR 292 million. The Minister is well aware that there is structural underfunding and that the budget has been "closing" in previous years by addressing own funds. In his letter of 20 June last, the Minister, as far as my group is concerned, shows that he is blind to this structural underfunding, while the letters of the Chief Constable, the Supervisory Committee, the Review Board of Attack Programme Information Services Police and the General Court, so people who may know, are directly opposed to this. In his letter, the Minister even reports that up to 8 million can be found by striping in the office articles. Then the Minister comes up with a few solutions that are not solutions at all. According to the Cabinet, we can face a financial windfall, but that is not a solution. First of all, this windfall is about 2017 and second of all, we just have to see if there will be a windfall and how high it will be. So there is no guarantee, but according to the Prime Minister, you only get it on vacuum cleaners. Unfortunately, that was forgotten by this Minister. Other solutions have to do with the so-called steering measures. The question of what measures is involved left the Minister wisely unanswered. Of course, that's what he'll transfer to the Chief Constable. I quote the Minister: "The Chief Constable will simply have to make policy on that." If this fails, the amount will be charged to own funds, but, as I have just said, it has been called upon for years. According to the Minister, this can be done without danger. We have been accused of electoral rhetoric, so let me add this: the orange bars under the famous VVD election slogans are apparently in front of the Minister's eyes. Finally, I'll make the sum for him. Needed in 2016: 170 million. There's 86 million more. So there's a hole in 2016. There was a deficit of 72 million last year and there are some setbacks to which the national police should contribute. If we have to believe the pieces, that's 30 million. The Minister is certainly as proud as I am of the national police. So I am sure he is not going to allow it to come to the point where a recovery plan is needed and capacity cuts are needed. I therefore have one question for him. When will the amount of EUR 200 million rounded up be added? It may also be a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u3	Mr. Chairman. Our police, the largest employer in the Netherlands, which this minister is the boss of, will go bankrupt if it continues this year. This minister, as chief of the police, stands by and looks at it. The fact that the entire ICT innovation department of the police has already been sent away is a pity; the police work with computers from the Flintstone era. Why is the Minister letting this happen? For example, what is his response to the departure of the Deputy Head of National Police, Inge Philips, who was responsible for the introduction of the Computer Crime Act III and indicated that the ICT cuts are completely incompatible with all the new ICT tasks of the police? Out of discontent, she has now left, together with the ICT innovation department, which had already been sent home. Does the Minister agree with me that this bad employership, bad management and a minister is unworthy? The opposition requested execution of the Kooiman motion, signed by the entire opposition and supported by the entire Chamber. It called for sufficient resources for the police. That motion was not carried out; my colleague also mentioned it. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and the VVD left the police two weeks ago. They said, "There's no more money. Let me explain to the Minister, the Labour Party and the VVD one more time about the figures. That's what I do with love. At the request of the Minister himself, an investigation took place. That investigation, the PwC report, is in front of us today. In short, you can conclude that with the reorganisation and the poor management of the police it was a huge chaos, that budgets were always exceeded and that the budget of the national police was not conclusive. Add to that a huge cut in Rutte I and Rutte II, and the current situation is one of bitter misery. As a result, there is a structural deficit of 250 to 300 million. Not included in the PwC report are the additional costs for, for example, refugee reception, detection of jihad fighters and costs arising from the terrorist threat. The counselor in the police interview or the effects of the collective agreement were not included either. The generic task adjustment is a very weird pot that the ministry lacked and is now being reported to the police. This while national police reserves have already been halved over the past year and its long-term debts have doubled. So now the Minister is making it go bankrupt this year. My question to the Minister is therefore very simple. What's he gonna do about this? Where is the plan to put an end to this bitter misery? Don't wait till next year, but now! The water is already on the lips of the police. The Minister is responsible for the staff of the police. Therefore, please, I say through you, Mr President, to the Minister for your staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u4	Mr. Chairman. The minister looks at the calendar and then says very cheerful: look, it's summer. But the CDA fraction looks out and sees that the rain comes out of the sky with bins. There's hailstones falling out of the sky like tennis balls that big. The Minister says everything's fine. Everything's going in the right direction. But that's not how the people on the workplace experience it, that's not how the citizens experience it, and we had a debate last week in which I indicated that entrepreneurs certainly do not experience it that way. The PVV's and SP's colleagues have presented a very good picture of what it lacks in financial terms. Let me see what else we get for noises from the workplace. We're getting noises about the police driving times, which are still way too long. The police are way too slow on the scene. The communication equipment wouldn't be out of place in the PTT Museum. I call the police stations that are closed and the police cars that could serve as police stations. But then the question is: do we have to lay down the tracks there? After all, sending it to the NFI, that is not possible. The establishment of the national police force would bring together regions. We are getting signals that not only have they been combined, but that then the staff have also been reduced and that administrative burdens are rising. I got an overview today of what happens when someone comes to report it. You have to make an appointment first. Then you come to the employee of the department intake and service. Then your report goes to the screening department, then to a weighting committee, then to a consultation with the justice department, then to a priority window, then it comes to the pre-worker, then the declaration goes to the bet coordinator, then it has to be provided with an analysis and finally, at best, you get to a detective who says: this is so complicated, I don't know what else to do with it and I'm not doing anything with it. That's what happens right now when you file a report. And believe me, that's not what a cop wants to go through. This is what happens when the Minister says he's going to reduce the administrative burden at the police stations. And then we see that the specialties in detectives are undermanned. That's a big concern. The influx from the police academy has been too low for years. People are retiring and there aren't enough people. If we look over that whole package, with that good explanation we just got about what's going on financially, how can the minister say: look at the calendar, it's summer? What I find most disconcerting is that in the last debate and also in a letter, the Minister has indicated that, in the end, EUR 55 million must be found by the police. I just read out what's going on right now. Then where can the police find the money? The minister says: these are then the chief of police's steering measures. We have a lot of contact with the police, also in connection with this debate. And what do we hear? That it's actually just an interne on equity. That sounds very nice, as if the police have a huge budget of equity. When a cabinet leaves its post, there are often bodies in the closet. You know what the painful thing is: here are the bodies in the middle of the room and the police are forced to step over them. What is this minister going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u5	Mr. Chairman. We say it almost every week: security in our country is not in good hands with this cabinet. While there are large gaps in the budget and the reorganisation is going to cost another hundreds of millions, the cabinet cuts further into the police. For example, the Chief Constable must find another EUR 50 million in austerity. It's both embarrassing and irresponsible. The police are on their last legs, the organization is out of control and cynicism among cops grows every day. The absenteeism goes on and on. Talented policemen are so disappointed that they resign. Capacity problems remain unprecedented, allowing potential terrorists to travel in the asylum influx unseen due to a lack of screening. Moroccan street scum also has free play, from Ede to Almere and from Gouda to Amsterdam. Everywhere in the Netherlands cars are torched and public transport is terrorized. You won't hear about this VVD minister. He does take action in the absurd discussion about ethnic profiling. It's totally absurd. The helm really needs to change. We propose the following. Invest over a billion more in our police force. Security, the core task of the government, must no longer be neglected. Stop the current stifling and expensive reorganisation and continue only on three quick-wins: procurement, ICT and work processes. Act hard against Moroccan street terrorists and make the fight against them a top national priority. Mr. Chairman. The police need to regain their strength and credibility. Make our country safe again. The Dutch are entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u6	Mr. Chairman. Four years ago, under the leadership of then Minister Opstelten, the reorganisation of the national police began with a great deal of bravure. The national police had to get there, no matter what the cost. We knew that. Reorganising and cutting is a combination that requires problems. D66 has warned about that many times. The problems don't lie. It has already been discussed here: a 7% absenteeism, overburdened district agents, a 30% delay in ICT renewal, ICTs being sent home, a lack of knowledge and expertise to win the fight against digital crime and a rate of clarification that remains below 26. Those aren't problems that only happen in 2017. No, they're playing now, anno 2016. That is why I am standing here again today to ask the Minister for an explanation. Wasn't it every time the opposition jumped for security and called on the coalition to spend money instead of cutting back on services that work hard every day to ensure the safety of the Netherlands? Two weeks ago, the opposition again reached out to the minister. That was a lame hand, but again the minister looked away. Will the Minister close his eyes to the police reports of the past few months? I should like to make a brief review of the headlines. February 2016: "Minister does not honour promises about better ICT police." April 2016: "Insatisfaction within Special Intervention Service is growing." May 2016: "Destroying report on functioning detectives'. May 2016 again: "Security embassies rattles'. In June: "Police Achilles heel Intelligence Department in Counter-Terrorism'. Finally, also in this month: "Talent leaves police by internal settlement culture." My colleague Kooiman has already mentioned Mrs Philips leaving. These aren't reassuring messages. How then is it that during the previous debate the Minister said that there was no reason to invest extra in the national police force this year, i.e. in 2016, while there is still a deficit of 50 million? According to the Minister, this must be resolved by means of 'control measures', a magic word, and without redundancies. How does it work? How's it gonna be fixed? For that, the Minister looks at the Chief Constable. The Chief Constable, who said at the time of his arrival that the basic tasks would be structurally deficited by 300 million and that now an occasional deficit of 50 million may be resolved. I'm not reassured. Can the Minister therefore clarify where the 50 million should come from? If I thought for him, I wonder if the influx of new young police officers would be restricted or the hiring of external specialists would be stopped. Should the much-needed ICT investments only wait another year? Or is the Minister watching how police reserves are shrinking and getting even closer to the critical lower limit of 1.5%? Can he guarantee not only for 2016 but also for 2017 that people will not be fired and that there will not be less blue on the streets? Doesn't the Minister simply transfer the problems to another cabinet? I'm rounding up. Without extra money, the resilience of the police will be affected to the bone in 2016. In the meantime, this minister says that extra investments in the police are not necessary. The disturbing reports I have just mentioned make me shy of a vulnerable organisation that is no longer able to cope with another setback in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u7	Mr. Chairman. There's plenty of numbers. The policemen and women on the street are doing a great job. Citizens who need the police are satisfied. Various studies show that the Netherlands has become a bit safer in the past year. That may not feel that way with Paris and Brussels in mind, but that is a fact. All this has happened during the process of change that every policeman in the Netherlands has felt: the formation of the national police. I am pleased that the service has been maintained, despite all the difficulties involved in a reorganisation. That says something about the character of the Dutch policeman, who, despite all the pressure, kept a close eye on everyone's safety and managed to keep course. That deserves a big compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u8	Has the research of VNO-NCW completely ignored the VVD Group? In that investigation, entrepreneurs say that the national police didn't get them anything. It also says why entrepreneurs are so disappointed in the police. It was said that as an entrepreneur you are incredibly vulnerable and that if you report in Romania, two thirds of the cases will be resolved within one day. Has that been completely ignored by the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u9	Absolutely not. We have also read this report, as have all the other reports we have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u10	Can the VVD explain why it says today that everyone is satisfied, while entrepreneurs say that there is no point in reporting? They indicate that they prefer to exchange their own camera images and that they will catch the perpetrators themselves, because they have been completely put in the cold by this government. What is the response of the VVD Group to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u11	I didn't read that they said they were abandoned by the government. It was mentioned in that report on the effectiveness of the police and the question of whether there is still a need to report it. The call of the VVD is that you must always report destruction, theft and all kinds of other cases and criminal offences. We will continue to make that call. It is worrying in itself that a group of entrepreneurs should be concerned in this way, and it is up to the Minister and the politicians to do something about it in the end. But the fact is that investigations show that citizens are satisfied with the service provided by the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u12	That is what this government itself has come up with. But ordinary people also watch what's going on among themselves, and then the results are different. People feel put in the cold. I am sorry that even the VVD doesn't care that entrepreneurs feel that way anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u13	I don't think you can draw that conclusion from what I said. I have said that I have taken note of the report, that a number of entrepreneurs have expressed their concerns about the services of the police and that an appeal has been made to deal with it seriously. I would like to say to the Minister that we consider this to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u14	I have the Journal Forum in my hand here. I hear the VVD say that this is a group of entrepreneurs, but I read here: "Better than citizens, entrepreneurs become the victims of crime. That is certainly the case in the field of cybercrime, a criminal branch of emerging sport. Three years ago, 3% of entrepreneurs said they were victims. This year, that percentage has risen to as much as 33." How can Mr Van Veen talk about a group of entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u15	A relationship is now being established with the rise in cybercrime. In my view, this is accompanied by technical developments. More and more entrepreneurs are being woken up by things they don't want. This is an area of attention which the police will have to deal with more and more. Cybercrime needs to be tackled. That also fits in with the answer I just gave to questions from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u16	I ask Mr Van Veen not only to read the article but also to look critically at the state. They also asked about the police's attitude to the report. Satisfaction has fallen by as much as 5% compared to 2013. So it is not better but worse with the declaration prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u17	I refer to the report of the Court of Auditors. That report clearly states that citizens in the Netherlands are more satisfied with the service of the police. I think this can be said. That doesn't mean we have to close our eyes to parts where things are getting worse. That could have all kinds of causes. I call the knowledge of the criminals. It's rising really fast. The facts don't lie in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u18	It is not thanks to this cabinet that citizens are satisfied. Citizens are satisfied despite this cabinet. I think the entire Chamber agrees with the VVD that the staff is working very hard. However, we do not agree with the fact that the VVD in this Chamber continues to cut down sharply on the police, including on ICT, which entrepreneurs run into. So what's the VVD's answer to this? They're gonna let the police go bankrupt? That is what happens if we do not intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u19	Of course, the VVD won't let the police go bankrupt. That's a fear that's based on nothing. The facts show that at the time of delivery, the VVD also delivers. In the image that the VVD is going to bankrupt the police, I don't recognize myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u20	I advise the VVD to have a real conversation with the police themselves. The police are so keen on equity that they have to write a recovery plan. That means, in short, that someone has to write a bankruptcy plan. Because you can't have that big of an interning on your reserves, but the VVD just lets that happen here. The VVD also makes it happen that ICT personnel have been sent home, while we have to tackle cybercrime. I'd really like to hear from the VVD what she's doing today. Will it only be a hallelujah story that citizens are so happy or will the VVD actually help the police one time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u21	The moment the police need help, the VVD stands there and delivers the VVD. I'm really far from calling for bankruptcy. I assume that this minister will return to Princess's Day and the Navy's Note on the problems that may then arise with the police. That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u22	We are still talking about the Spring and Autumn notes tomorrow, but we are also talking about the PwC report for the coming years. This clearly shows that there is a structural deficit of almost 300 million. The craters of the eternal VVD policy have already been beaten. I told you, the bankruptcy plan is already coming. I call once again on the VVD to stop hallelujah talk and come up with a plan to actually solve the gaps in the police budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u23	I think there might be reason to say something positive about the police for once. In the few words I have spoken so far in this debate, I have complimented all police officers in the Netherlands. Despite a reorganisation, they make the most of it. I myself have experienced many reorganisations in the business community and I know the uncertainties that this can bring, but I also know that eventually the beacons are being changed and there is a return to course. The policeman and the policewoman in the Netherlands are already doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u24	I'd like to take a positive look at it. I believe I have heard a commitment from the VVD colleague that the VVD will not let the police go bankrupt. I have here a calculation about the use of police own funds for unforeseen charges in 2013. The charges for the deployment of police at events that are not taxed amount to 60 million. In 2014, the cost of a new police uniform was 57 million. The planned investments were limited, particularly in ICT. We know from the books that 2015 resulted in a deficit of 72 million. The VVD won't let the police go bankrupt, so can the police see some cash?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u25	The VVD doesn't let the police go bankrupt, because they just deliver at the time of delivery. I have the same figures as Mrs Helder of the PVV and I note that there has been a change in police own funds. I think we're having a general discussion on the police tomorrow. That is a good reason to discuss this with the Minister. How does he see the multi-annual estimate of the police reserves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u26	I'm gonna keep looking at the positive. The VVD says: we deliver when to be delivered. Everyone has said so far that delivery needs to be made. We are still going to steal the money; I am happy to do so. But the fact is that it has to be delivered, and for that I'm back on that PwC-report. I wonder what Mr Van Veen thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u27	I've been going over PwC's report. There's some big warnings in there. I note that the Minister has already acted on this by giving extra money to the police twice this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u28	Mrs. Helder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u29	Yeah, finally. I just made that sum for the Minister. I was hoping Mr Van Veen would pay attention. In 2016, there is a gap of 170 million for the primary tasks. The Minister provides 86 million for these primary tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u30	I heard that question from the Minister. I wonder what he's gonna say to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u32	I told you, the policeman and the policewoman deserve a big compliment. The district agent occupies a special place in that. He or she is the first point of contact for people in the neighborhood. I understand that in the final placement of district agents for several places, no district agent has yet been found. I'm gonna ask the Minister how he's gonna close those holes. The digital end-of-trapportage administrative burden reduction shows that an important desire of agents has emerged: less bureaucracy and more time on the streets. This effective approach has helped the 5,500 FTEs of burden relief to the primary police tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u33	Does the VVD know how much time a district agent was promised to spend on his neighborhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u34	I have to be honest with you, I don't have that in place right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u35	About 85%. You probably don't know how much time he can actually spend on his neighborhood. That's 66%. The people are unable to pay attention to their neighborhood. A ratio of 1 to 5,000 has been agreed, but it needs to be increased now. Does the VVD recognize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u36	I've seen those last numbers. What strikes me and no more than that, is that 128 district agents participated in the investigation, while in the Netherlands there are 3,194 district agents. We can ask the Minister about that now or else tomorrow at the AA. I have my doubts as to whether this is a representative sample. I have indeed read that the 128 district agents who have been questioned have said something about that. They think they should spend more time on the streets,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u37	We've been talking to district agents. They'll recognize this image. I have also heard that a lot of district agents are so overworked that they don't even have time to participate in the survey. But I'm glad the VVD at least acknowledges that agents can spend 66% of their time on their neighborhood. We do not comply with what has been agreed. I wonder what the VVD will add to the meeting with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u38	I can't draw that last conclusion. I say that I have taken note of the report and that I note that 128 district agents have been questioned. There is an image that the VVD has no contact with district agents and that the VVD does not make work visits. So do we, but perhaps in other places than other parties. Of course we hear such stories about how things are going. As I pointed out in my speech, this also has to do with the restructuring pressure that has been put in place. I think it is very good that, despite all this reorganisation stress, so many people have continued to work for the citizens of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u39	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u40	Let us agree on that. It is incredibly handsome that, despite this cabinet, these district agents are still trying so hard for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u41	Mr Van Veen spoke about reorganisation stress which may be one of the causes of absenteeism in the police. Is it wise to keep the police, who are already under so much pressure, waiting until the autumn for a promise that will enable them to carry out their duties properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u42	Now there is a relationship between money and the process of forming the national police. I'm not gonna make that relationship. I'm setting up a relationship with the stressful situation of police officers who are awaiting their placement decision and still don't know what that's gonna mean to them. I didn't talk about money at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u43	Let me clarify. It is a fragile organisation that is in transition and whose equity is being eroded unless there is something else that can be cut. People are leaving. There's a natural emptiness. People anticipate the changes. As a result, the organisation is becoming weaker and weaker. What's the VVD's response to that? Mr Van Veen says: we will keep them waiting until autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u44	We agreed to have 49,802 FTEs available to the police. I'll come back later on to the percentage of absenteeism. The story that was just told doesn't go away at all. The point is that the people who work there now and are now employed contribute to the safety of the Netherlands. We thank them for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u45	Mr President, it may be brief. We have not agreed at all that we want this strength. The VVD and the Labour Party have chosen to remove 2,000 fte. Let us be clear: the opposition is not in favour of this. I think it is important to have mentioned this, because the VVD and Labour Party are only running out of strength. So that's not what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u46	I would like to respond briefly to that. I did say that we are talking about 49,802 FTEs to police officers we have deployed. This is also a very important guideline for the future for the effectiveness of the police organisation. The VVD wants people to be visible and provide help where necessary. What can the Minister present in the short term in terms of results that contribute to an even better functioning of the police organisation, not by introducing new lists, but by giving room to the beautiful function of agent? Of course, the PwC report on the formation of the national police does not lie. I am pleased that the Minister has made additional money available to the national police in good time. Crime dropped by as much as 5% last year. Does the Minister also see that the chance of getting caught is going to improve? What does he expect for the coming year? We need to increase the clearing rates. That is what gives the public confidence. We will come back to this tomorrow in general consultation on the police. The VVD regrets that the uncertainty surrounding the formation of the national police has led to a higher absenteeism of 7%. Other parties have already talked about this. This is high compared to other employees in the Netherlands. I wonder if illness can cause occupation problems here and there now that the reorganisation is coming to an end. Cops finally know what they're up to and what they're expected to do. Then I expect, perhaps just like the Minister, that the absenteeism will go down again. Following his letter of 30 March 2016, does the Minister agree with me? The VVD looks forward to Prinsjesdag, the look-through for 2017 and the police budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u47	Mr. Chairman. We have a classic opposition-government-party debate here, in which the united opposition parties all say from a different argument: we think the police are incredibly important; we get the signals at all levels that it does not fit financially; we think that the motion has already been mentioned, but it should simply be adapted, but it does not happen. Just now we heard the explanation again that it all fits. That certainly does not convince my group. Safety is absolutely primary for everyone in the Netherlands. Ordinary police women and policemen work very hard for that every day. That's what all the spokesmen said. We have to trust that. This is not something citizens themselves can regulate in a participatory society. It's not something you think we're gonna miss out on for six months or a year. It is far too often on the agenda; the police budget and, by the way, the entire budget of Security and Justice. There are many ways of cutting back on this. Greater priorities are being set. More tasks are being laid down. Then people grumbling again if the police fail in the time they want. The police themselves commissioned the aforementioned PwC investigation into the necessary budget. There's a big difference. I am very curious to see how this minister is going to talk the square again. One of the things that we consider very important is that no police officers are fired and no cuts are made on the police. We also want to know if there will be forced dismissals. I started with police women and policemen, but there are other things on the agenda, such as diversity. That doesn't work out so well with the police. However, there is a lot of enthusiasm for that. In each case, let us not cut back on those projects and those recruitment and selection pathways that are designed to make diversity a little bit bigger. I'd like to get a confirmation from the Minister that we're definitely not going to do that. So far, the cabinet has not been financially pinned on anything. This point will also be addressed in the AA tomorrow, but we want to hear from the Minister a clear view of the expectations of the police. What's the priority? And if there's no money in it, what kind of things is this minister allowed to swallow for a while? At least we'll have clarity and insight. If, however, less money goes to the police, while everything has to be at least as good and a large list of new tasks is added, then everyone knows that this is not going to work. The debate on 15 June asked what the steering measures meant. This point was raised today by a number of spokesmen. That would be $50 million. My group did not find out what these measures should be. Moreover, in the letter from the Minister of 20 June, we read that this amount has already risen to 55 million within five days. On page 7 there's an explanation, but I don't understand it yet. What's the deal with that? Is it going to be 55 million or is the amount going to increase further? This raises the fundamental question: what is the rule of law that the police can cost? On V and J there is a lot of argument based on the thought: we have so much money, so we can only do x or y. With regard to GroenLinks, police, security and justice are so basic to a democratic rule of law that you have to start on the other hand: what level do we consider acceptable? The necessary money must then be sought for this level. We do not want the police to continue to muddle in the limbo of budget tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u48	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend Typhoon performed at Parkpop. And exactly one year and a day ago, Mitch Henriquez died on Parkpop as a result of a neck clamp. There's a lot of discussion about the national police budget. As far as we're concerned, we also need more money to go to the police. However, two fundamental problems must also be solved, namely ethnic profiling and the lack of diversity. I'll start with the lack of diversity. We read that the Police College and the police organisation are actively pursuing policies to increase the diversity of training and organisation. However, we wonder why the outflow is so high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u49	I don't know if I should make a point of order. In fact, this debate is about the budgets of the national police and the PwC report underneath. The topics mentioned by Mr Kuzu will be discussed tomorrow in the AO on the police. I understand that Mr Kuzu would like to explain this in plenary. It is also a very important subject, but we are talking today about the deficits of the national police. I hope that Mr Kuzu agrees with us that we need to address this issue today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u50	I named that in my contribution, too. It is indeed about the budget of the national police. I have also indicated that there must be a budget to deal with the shortages in the police. At the same time, I believe that, within the framework of the national police budget, two important issues need to be addressed. That is why these issues are indeed relevant to this debate. I talked about the diversity in the police organization. We see that attention is paid to this in the organisation and the academy, but we also see that the outflow is high. We are also concerned about the culture of the police organisation; former Chief of Staff Gerard Bouman also sounded the alarm clock last year. He spoke literally of "poison in the police organisation"; in particular Muslim agents are harassed and discriminated against within the police organisation. We therefore call for this debate and the budget to be used to increase gender diversity and ethnic diversity in the police organisation, not only in the workplace but also in the summit. It's too much of a white man's bulb right now. That brings with it a certain culture. How does the Minister intend to break this culture? With regard to the problem of ethnic profiling, the Minister has already promised that he would talk to Typhoon. Did that conversation take place and what are the results of that? Typhoon had indicated that he would like to help, provided that this will be done in a structural way and will not serve as a fast patch for a deeper problem in the Netherlands. We specifically ask which part of the police budget is going to deal with these issues. How much money is there to fight ethnic profiling and how much money is there to improve diversity within the police organisation? And how does the Minister intend to pay more attention and budget to these two important issues, which I know he considers important?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u51	Mr. Chairman. "People can be free because there are people like me who protect your freedom." That's what Colonel Mostafa Hilali answers when people question him about his loyalty to the army, his employer. That's what the police do. The nice interview of Hilali by Greta Riemersma is this week in Vrij Nederland. Without the police, our freedom of speech was a fine principle without protection. I cherish the safe ground that the police lay so that we are free to debate, emancipate and build. If we are to repeat debates on budgets now, I would therefore like to repeat the plea to cherish the police. That's what I'm talking about. The cop who's doing the job. Cherish the neighborhood cop, the surveillance officer, and the detective. I'm reading the investigations on police shortages, both for salaries and for materials. I see that it is about deficits for the next four years and also for this year. Those deficits need to be resolved. I have no reason to believe the minister wouldn't solve it. This year, the police will receive 188 million for extra public order, ICT, equipment, transport and salary increases. For the next four years, I trust the Minister will take care of this on Princess Day, but I hear the police and the unions, who remain concerned. How's the minister gonna take that care away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u52	The question is, of course, what is the Labour Party going to do about it as a coalition party? After all, now the chief of police has got the monkey on the shoulder: at least solve the 55 million yourself. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u53	We believe that these deficits should be resolved. During the debate, I believe, on 14 June, the Minister spoke about the steering mechanisms. That's what you've been talking about. I look forward to the Minister's answer to the question of exactly what these steering mechanisms are and how that problem is going to be solved, but this needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u54	We know Mr Marcouch as an involved former police officer. If he doesn't know what the steering mechanisms would be, other than "direction" of victims or of police officers, we'll probably get back together in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u55	That's not what I mean by "control." The basic police work has to be done. I wonder how the Minister will fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u56	I'm sure Mr. Marcouch has a conversation with the police. Then he will also find that the budget released by the Minister is not sufficient. The PwC report also shows that there is another hole. It is so serious and there is so much to be put into reserve that the police are simply not getting out this year. How is Mr Marcouch going to solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u57	For this year, 188 million has been added. I've heard the concerns of the unions and the police summit. There's a hole of over 50 million. There must be a solution to this. I wonder how the Minister's gonna take care of that. For the rest, the reports are, of course, also about the coming years. There are structural serious problems that need to be solved in a structural manner. In the budget process of the House of Representatives, Princess Day is the right time for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u58	Finally, Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u59	I find this striking. The deficit isn't 50 million. That is actually just the generic task adjustment of the Ministry. The shortage that the Ministry has removed from the police can be pushed forward to the next few years, but that will be on our plate again. The problem is, however, the whole budget. People in the police department say there's a deficit of 134 million this year alone. In the following years there will be a deficit of about 300 million. If we are to believe the messages leaked in the media, the whole safety chain must be communicated and we are not yet getting there. It is time for the Labour Party to take a stand and ensure that safety is actually paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u60	There is a discussion on the 2016 budget. The problem that this raises must be resolved in the short term. In addition, there are deficits in the long term. The Labour Party believes that they should also be resolved, but as usual, Princess Day is the right time for this. I read that there is a hole of over 50 million in 2016. I want to know from the Minister how he's gonna solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u61	I agree with Mrs Kooiman's calculation. I find that much more convincing. Anyway, I'll use this little bridge to move on to the steering measures. In the debate Mr Marcouch mentioned, the Minister left that question unanswered. In the letter of 20 June, the minister does come up with a number of things he passes on to the chief of police. The Minister wrote in the letter: "It can be considered whether all the additional costs calculated in the P/M research are inevitable or whether there is still a possibility of steering here." The Minister himself has ordered this report to be drawn up, but he actually says that the report is good, but yes, I can't do anything with that amount, so we have to see if we can get anything out of it. Then the Minister comes up with a few brilliant comments. I don't think it's worthy of a minister. There's a 170 million hole in 2016. More than 90 million of these relate to additional charges for hire. Perhaps that should be deleted. That hire is needed to give hands and feet to the reorganisation. That is not possible at all. The Management post covers expenses related to office supplies, external advice, third party damages, representation, meeting and catering expenses. There's $8 million there. If we have to debate at that level! I find it unworthy of a minister and, frankly, a coalition partner. So I would like to give Mr Marcouch the opportunity to say that he is not going to be a part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u62	I note that 188 million has been added this year and that there are concerns. Like everyone else here, I think it is important that the problem that seems to exist is resolved. It's up to the minister to figure out how to solve it, as long as he solves it. I want to hear more about how he's gonna do it later. These are the actual figures for the amount of more than 50 million. There is a structural problem and a structural solution must be found on Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u63	We're gonna keep spinning around in the same circle. I think that is a pity, because for the time being I am assuming that this will be the Minister's answer. I will leave Mr Marcouch alone for now, but I think I will try again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u64	You will be left alone by Mrs Helder, Mr Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u65	I always appreciate that. In the meantime, let us worry about a genuinely proven concern, that of the condition and well-being of our agents. Money helps, but it's not enough. My ears are ringing like cops telling me about their outdated cars and bugging equipment. I get abdominal pain when detectives tell me how to solve cases with their hands behind their backs, without sufficiently trained colleagues and without experienced specialists. It grabs me at the throat like TNO concludes that 3,500 agents are sick at home every day, excluding the agents on the bench with a labour dispute, despite tracking systems, vision documents and plans of approach. Tackling are the files in which the police have to pay millions in wages sanctions because the UWV has found neglect. These sick cops are forgotten. That's all I can make of that. That neglect is the most painful thing I've ever seen. How is the Minister going to organize that the extra millions flow towards detectives, base teams and district agents, so to the workplace, along the fence of the overhead and beyond the ravines of the managers? What is the Minister doing to check that the money really ended up in the workplace? If that succeeds, then we have made the difference here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u66	That is a very clear plea from my colleague from the PvdA: too little stuff, bad stuff, outdated stuff, sometimes not the right colleagues, sometimes colleagues with not the right training and sick colleagues who sit at home and in some cases do not receive sufficient guidance. But what does the PvdA itself propose? What should happen? How much money does the PvdA want? And what else does the PvdA think needs to be done to resolve these obvious abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u67	As I said, 188 million has been added this year, on top of the basic budget. There's a problem about 50 million dollars. That needs to be solved. It also has to do with improving the quality of detectives and training. I assume Mrs Van Tongeren has read the documents as well. It's also about the way you deal with people, about the quality of the execution. So it is not just a question of "more money and then the problem is solved." It's also about the culture within the organisation and how you deal with people and facilitate them to do their job well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u68	I hear a clear appointment of the problems, both on the organisational side and on the financial side, but I do not yet hear what the PvdA is proposing as a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u69	That's the solution we've talked about in every AO about the police. For example, we have tabled motions to organise more diversity. If you want more effectiveness in tracking, you'll need to facilitate and organize detectives better. We have to train and train. At the moment, a historic reorganisation is taking place with the police, precisely in order to achieve all these improvements. We have tabled motions and have even regulated by law that people with PTSD are better supported. Ultimately, however, it is important that whatever you agree here in The Hague, it ends up on the work floor, with the agent on the street. I call the Minister to that. He has to make sure that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u70	I actually hear that the PvdA joins the opposition parties and says that things are not going well with the police: the budgets are inadequate and, more than that, the organisation is also in serious deficit, which makes it impossible to get to work properly in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u71	I'm not joining the opposition. We share a number of concerns, but I also see an organisation which, despite the great reorganisation and despite the concerns I have identified, is delivering great results. I want us to take better care of the security guard, the cop and the detective by ensuring that the resources we make available to them actually reach execution. I don't have the illusion that problems are solved by money. Money is important, but it's not the only thing. You will also have to do some other things in the execution. People must be well supported in the performance of their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u72	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I say that we have agreed to keep the number of interruptions to two. An interruption consists of a question and a follow-up question. I understand that there will be a general consultation tomorrow, and tomorrow the supplementary budget will also be dealt with. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u73	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen, who have also taken the opportunity today to highlight the important work done by the Dutch national police. They have expressed their admiration, appreciation and respect for all the policemen and women we have in the Netherlands and that day in, day out, from early in the morning to late in the evening, by weather and wind, doing the good work they have been hired for in light and dark. They are doing so with enormous dedication and with incredible enthusiasm, despite the fact that the reorganisation of staff has only recently come to a final conclusion, despite the fact that it was only last year, after months of complicated negotiations, that the collective agreement was concluded, to the satisfaction of all police officers, and of course despite the fact that we did not manage, until the summer of last year, shortly after my arrival, to agree, together with all the parties involved, including certainly the Chamber, on the review of the reorganisation of the national police. My commitment from the day I started as a minister was focused on those three main pillars. One. To ensure that the review of the reorganisation, already announced by my predecessor, would take place. Two. Ensure that there is a proper collective agreement for the people working in the national police force as soon as possible. Three. Ensure that the staff reorganisation would also be completed as soon as possible, so that people have the assurance that they are in the place where they are and so that we could open up the urgently needed vacancies. The good news is that we are now in the phase where these three main pillars have been completed and that we are now taking up the second undercurrent, which is to make additional money available to the national police. How did I do that? During the debate on the re-examination of the Chamber, I promised myself that it would be very important to consider the effect of extending that reorganisation. That's what I saw on two tracks. One was the question of how much more extra money you need to finance that reorganisation. The answer was 230 million. We added that to the budget for the reorganisation. Secondly, the question was whether the efficiency path used at the start of the reorganisation of the national police would be feasible and whether the amount entered would also be realised. I asked PwC to do an investigation. I had that report validated by André de Jong, one of the members of ABDTOPConsult. That leads us to have a good idea of what we need to finance the national police. That is also the starting point in the Chamber. I did so myself because I think it is very important for you to be able to have the debate with the Chamber on the basis of facts. These two studies led to this; the research on the one hand and the validation on the other. The present report addresses the expected level of police burden in the period 2016-2020, as well as the internal financial management and control of police finances. In doing so, the investigation and validation provide the promised information on the concerns identified in the review with regard to the police budget. The content of the report, the recommendations and the follow-up are and are discussed within the Cabinet, with the authority, of course with the mayors, with the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the police organisations and with the other parties involved. It's done with all due care. The cabinet then released additional money, both in the budget for this year and in the Spring note. That extra money, which was made available in the budget in the form of an envelope, was also allocated in the Spring Note to those elements for which it is necessary. In addition, the Cabinet will discuss the financial decisions it will take in response to this report on a multiannual basis. The chairman said we have another debate and an AO tomorrow. We also had a debate last week, which was actually also on this subject, if I am being very honest. In that I said: if there were to be a sum of 300 million available for my budget for 2017 and subsequent years, as has been the case in the news, that would be a structural, very welcome investment in the safety of the Netherlands. This means that there will be substantial investment in the national police force in 2016. That's over 187 million in spring notes. In addition, 47 million were received for a post-payment for the collective agreement concluded in 2015. Is there, as Mrs Kooiman says, a bankruptcy of the national police? Well, if you spend more than 5 billion on an organization, the chances of bankruptcy aren't that great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u74	Not that big?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u75	That was humor, Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u76	I heard the minister say an envelope was distributed. That would amount to 310 million, but wasn't the deficit in March 2016, as budgeted by the then incoming chief of police, also that amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u77	Maybe it's okay if I say this for purity. Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Helder in particular have also made a calculation of this. We know what we need for 2016. The envelope and the additional funds provide for a very large amount of money. The math is exactly as follows. According to PwC, 170 million is necessary. That's where 6 million was collected as a result of De Jong's validation. Then there is a sum of 12 million for holiday pay. There is also an amount of 10 million for the contour note and 86 million from the envelope. This leads to the need for just over 50 or 55 million for 2016 which is not yet foreseen. We had the debate on this last week. I said two things at the time. One. I'm gonna ask the Chief Constable to show us his steering skills at this point. Two. If that doesn't work, we'll cover it from equity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u78	I am also very curious about these steering mechanisms. What does the Minister mean by that? And will it cover the deficit of 50 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u79	That's what I wrote the letter about. I don't know if the 50 million deficit will be covered by this. That is precisely why I have already said in the previous debate that own funds will be used as a buffer if they do not succeed; Mrs Swinkels will not have escaped that. However, I have good hope. We spend 5 billion on this organisation, of which we spend 3 billion on wages and salaries and 2 billion on hardware, the items, including 600 million every year on ICT and ICT innovation. Then I think it is also possible that there will be windfalls at the end of the year. Then I'll ask the Chief Constable to use those windfalls and not rely on equity. However, if there are no windfalls, the Chief Constable will have to rely on own funds, as I explained in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u80	We have asked the Minister several times, but the answers are always vague. The chief of police should simply look for their own money, while the police have already been squeezed out and many things can no longer be done. I want the Minister to tell us where the Chief Constable is supposed to magic 55 million from. Now all we hear is that so-called 8 million can be removed from administrative support. Well, they don't even have them anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u81	Mrs Van Toorenburg always likes to paint an image that does not necessarily correspond entirely to reality. That is still separate from the fact that no one here will claim that the support of the national police is in order at the top. BlackBerry and Nokia phones are still being used, and some people do want to be more modern. On the other hand, 21,000 state-of-the-art smartphones have been rolled out in the last year. So there can indeed be much better, but Mrs Van Toorenburg's thinking is not in line with reality, despite the fact that there are people who would like to see that acceleration that is needed. Mrs Van Toorenburg asks what measures the Chief Constable should take. The answer is the same as the one I gave in previous debates and just now: it is up to the Chief Constable to send. The chief of police is in charge of cash management. It's up to the Chief Constable to use any windfalls. If this does not work in the worst case, own funds will be able to absorb part of the amount or the whole amount. In the previous debate, I also explained this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u82	That equity is almost nothing anymore. We ask each organization to maintain a little equity to cope with setbacks, but the police's equity is now virtually zero. Why does the Minister tell stories like this when he's actually aiming at a next cabinet? This isn't a body in the closet anymore. It's a body in the middle of the room. I don't want this minister to step over that again. How is he going to ensure that the Chamber knows how 55 million euros will be saved on the police this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u83	It will be complicated to debate if Mrs Van Toorenburg says that own funds would be zero at the moment, while at the end of 2015 they will be EUR 156 million. I don't see that, with all due respect. The lower limit we agreed on is 75 million euros. This means that more than EUR 75 million is available to absorb any extras without the need for a recovery plan. There is no question of bankruptcy or recovery plan. This is a very easy way to shape a debate, but these are the facts. There is 156 million equity available. I'm asking the Chief Constable to send at $50 million. It's up to the Chief Constable to do that. Of course, this is difficult and difficult, but in an organisation that spends 5 billion, there are also windfalls. Maybe there's some setbacks, too. This means, on balance, that own funds can absorb that. As far as I am concerned, there is no problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u84	I will give the Minister a hand in pointing out what this 50 million mission will be about. I don't want to keep referring back to it, but I've worked with the police for 30 years. I've seen some of those targets. What's gonna happen? The overtime budget is being cut. Then you're a detective in a robbery and you have to leave because you can't work late. Then you stand as an emergency worker on a report and you have to leave because you can't work late. The picket fees will be reversed. People are no longer available for 24 hours. Several coordinators of special services are no longer available. I've seen you drive less gasoline for reports and surveillance. In the context of budget cuts, you were allowed to fire fewer rounds during shooting exercises. That's the kind of crazy this minister imposes on the chief of police. It does not have any other means to cut costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u85	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u86	Is that what the Minister wants? There's a VVD minister out there who's gonna chop in the national police. That is a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u87	I can't answer a question like that. I'm asking the Chief Constable to steer carefully within his budget of 5 billion and a little bit. This means that he can take action in all areas. Where he does that, it's up to him. Of course, this must be done in a very careful way, looking at the core tasks of the national police. How he does that, we will see at the end of the year. There's six months left to do that. Of course, with an organization you spend 5 billion on, there are always windfalls, but possibly also setbacks. We have ample equity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u88	These are the consequences. This is what the regular policeman or wife and detective on the street are gonna notice. This is not a management story, but an operational story, because it can be cut back. You can't sell cars or boats from the river or seaport police. You can't suddenly do the job with a lot less people. All you can do is cut overtime, picket fees, fuel and training for the police. That's what's calling this minister's mind off. Let that work on you again, Minister, because this is a big deal. I'd still like to get a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u89	I do not go into the measures mentioned by Mr Bontes. That's really up to the Chief Constable. To a large extent, I agree with Mr Bontes that you should not want such measures. Mr Bontes is right: you cannot sell cars. We don't want that either, because we have the cars we need. We don't want to sell boats either, because if we need them, we just need them. There's no discussion about that. I think it would be a good idea to reduce overtime and picket fees if that is justified. I also think it is very important that the absenteeism goes down, so that you can balance those two things. Because of course one can also result from the other. That would be an opportunity to send it. I'll ask the Chief Constable to do that. If that does not work enough, own funds are an opportunity to cover any shortfalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u90	It is, of course, very easy to fight down all the problems on the Chief Constable's plate, whereas this minister should be in control. That's exactly what the questions are about. The Minister uses very different figures than the figures the opposition hears after thorough and thorough investigation. Just looking at PwC's report, you can see that this year there's a total deficit of 54 million. The whole amount is not included at all. There should be 140 million, but only 86 million will be paid out. Then we still have a deficit of 54 million. Mrs Helder has already indicated this. The facts don't match. The Minister talks about very different facts and does not solve them at all. Is the minister in control?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u91	Mrs Kooiman and I share the view that it amounts to just over 50 million. That's exactly what I said. I said that last week during the debate, and I said it again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u92	No, that was the generic task adjustment that, hoppa, of the Ministry, was marbled on the police sign. The additional deficits of non-payment of pensions have not even been added to this by the police. No, this year alone, there is a deficit of 134 million on the police budget. And we're only talking about this year. In the coming years, the deficit will only rise. This is ostrich politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u93	I cannot come to that conclusion on the basis of the figures before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u94	I've been waiting this whole round to see what kind of numbers the minister comes up with. I also come to the conclusion that it just doesn't add up. PwC's report states that there is a deficit of 170 million in 2016. The minister says you have to deduct the validation. That's $6 million. You can argue about that, because it is about housing costs that are not sufficiently substantiated. So it has not been said that they are not there, but they are not sufficiently substantiated. Then let me give the Minister that $6 million. It's a lot of money, but okay, let's take that with us. You'll be worth 164 million. Then the minister mentions 10 million for tracking, but that amount wasn't in the 170 million. So you don't have to count the $10 million. That is also very clear in the report. Then, for the financial gap, only 86 million will be added. That's what I said. Under the line, you really don't end up with a remnant of around 50 or 55 million that the Chief Constable should solve. The Minister is completely ignorant of that. The Minister says that the entire budget that goes to the police amounts to 5.2 billion and that about 2 billion of it is for stuff. No, there's another job on that $2 billion for stuff. Under the line, this leads to 4.8 billion. Then we're talking about a whole different story. That was the third point. The Minister has to look at it as a whole. I've been waiting for the exercise. There's a whole bunch of numbers coming by and that makes it look like it's all okay. If the Minister hears this list, it is true, because I have recorded the figures from the Minister's own story, he does not come to a slightly modified conclusion, namely that there really is a financial gap that cannot be bridged by steering measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u95	That's exactly what I say all the time. I also said last week that there is a difference between the PwC report, the validation of De Jong and what has now become available. That difference is between 50 and 55 million. Hopefully we can agree on that. Mrs Helder does not agree with me, but I do agree with myself, I say with a big smile. I have said that the Chief Constable, who is responsible for this organization, must see if he can solve this by means of control measures. If this is not possible, then the own funds of EUR 156 million can be used. I'd rather not, but if there's no other way, it's available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u96	As far as I am concerned, the deficit is at least that 170 million minus that 86 million. You'll be at 84 million. So we shouldn't make it so hard. The Minister says that there must be management measures. What remains under the line is at the expense of equity. I have just said in the interrupting debate with Mr Van Veen that you should also look at what was already deducted from own funds in 2013 and in 2014. Can the Minister include these amounts in the 175 million? The Minister says that this amount is still available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u97	For the record, at the end of 2015, there was 156 million. The lower limit is 75 million. That's the 1.5%. If we fail, we will need a recovery plan. Mrs Kooiman has the impression that this must be done today, but that is not the case. This means that there is room in equity to cope with any shortfalls. That's just how a police chief can act. If you're short, you're gonna have to rely on equity. I'm okay with that, too. That is why I said in the debate last week that as a driver I take responsibility. I will ask the Chief Constable if he can see if he can take into account a number of windfalls, so that the total amount of own funds is less than 50 million. That would be very good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u98	Then I find it very strange that in March we heard from the same chief of police that the policy has to be cut into. I believe that story is a little more than what the Minister has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u99	We will certainly have that debate again. I estimate that the Millions note will not pass the Chamber without a debate on the budget for Security and Justice. Then we will talk about the multiannual framework, the years 2017 and beyond, and we will need to re-examine what additional money will be available. I read in the media that it amounts to 300 million. I would have been greatly helped in a number of areas. I'll have to do some good pluses and lovers and look at the needs of, for example, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. That's gonna be quite a complicated puzzle, but it doesn't matter. That's what we're gonna do, because that's what I've been appointed to do. I am happy to discuss this with you. Now we are having a debate on national police in 2016. I have made it very clear that the deficit will be around 55 million. I've asked the Chief Constable to send me there. That's what you'd expect from a manager. He is, a very high-quality manager. Then we will see the end result at the end of the day. I will, of course, report to the Chamber on this in the annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u100	Your last interruption, Mrs. Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u101	Can the Minister explain to me why own funds have a critical lower limit of 1.5%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u102	That's in line with the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u103	The Minister understands my question very well. What is such a reserve for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u104	Own funds are used in a normal organisation to cover any shortfalls that occur in the course of the year. In recent years, we have had to deal with financial cuts due to a crisis. Mrs Swinkels may remember that we managed to curb them to a large extent with a few very firm measures. Among other things, we have had to deal with this crisis by sometimes using own funds for the national police. That's what it's for. That is also exactly what we may be doing for 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u105	Then my question to the Minister is whether he thinks it is wise to drain own funds in this way, already, so that any setbacks can no longer be met by the police in the course of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u106	That's out of the question. We have just found that there is a huge extra investment of all kinds of EUR 170 million, at least a little less, because that EUR 6 million is still to be paid off in the national police force, with an additional EUR 50 million in commitment to the asylum issue. This means that a substantial investment has been made in the national police force. If someone heard the spokesmen and didn't follow the debate, he'd really think there wasn't a penny for the police, but we're talking about substantial investments. Compared to the path we calculated ourselves with PwC, there is still a deficit of 50 million for 2016. That amount can be paid if it is necessary; I am not going to be charged to own funds for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u107	I'd like to move on to equity. In my memory from management jobs I have had, you have a freely expendable equity that you can spend on something as you see fit, but you also have a lot of dedicated equity. For example, new construction does not come about in one go. In several years, they put aside a little bit for that. When it has to be done, the money will then be taken out of its own funds. Can the Minister give me the affair? How much equity does a target have and how much is completely free equity that the police organisation can spend for anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u108	That's a good question. I'm not so ready for that right now. I think, but then I would speculate, the equity we are talking about is quite expendable. Or no, I'm sure it is. Of course, the total amount of 5 billion spent every year for the national police is investment amounts and other amounts invested in housing, cars and maintenance. These cases are therefore covered by the total amount of 5 billion. Now we are talking about the equity that is just freely expendable. It's really meant to be a buffer. That is exactly what we may need this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u109	I am still waiting for the more precise answer, because it is quite unusual in my experience that an organisation has such an amount on its balance sheet without being a target destination. Perhaps it is not a mandatory target destination, but I can hardly imagine that it stands as: other; we also do not know what to do with that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u110	That's exactly what it's for. It's quite expendable equity. But beware: the agreement is that a recovery plan is needed if it falls below 75 million. Of course, the rest of the budget contains all the investment amounts. There is 600 million in investment made annually in ICT. That amount is partly made up of people, partly made up of equipment. There is a normal investment agenda and a possible reserve within that budget line for that. This is really about the general, freely expendable equity of the national police. Ms Swinkels asked if the strength of 49,800 fte was guaranteed in 2016. Yes, that's the case. That's what we're up there with 700 people right now. The influx of new police officers is higher this year than in recent years. I've also reported to the Chamber on that in detail. We can talk about that tomorrow. It is therefore at the level of the 2016 budget. In 2016 no staff will be fired, a. because it is not necessary and b. because it is not possible because we have issued a work guarantee in the context of the reorganisation. ICT investments are also at the level of PM research carried out by PwC. Now I hesitate, because I have a number of questions that are not so much on the budget itself as on all sorts of adjacent documents. These are eight questions, and I could very well include them in my answer in the first period of the general consultation that we will have tomorrow specifically about the police. Since they are not related to the budget but to the police, it would be my feeling that it would be better to discuss them then, but if the Members of the Chamber would rather have answered those questions now, I am always happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u111	Mrs. Kooiman, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u112	I do not have a question about these questions, but I do have a question about ICT in the police department, which the Minister himself has just mentioned. He said people in ICT weren't fired. That's right. People with a temporary contract have simply been dismissed, namely the entire club at the ICT that was responsible for the innovation. We all know that innovation in the police force is very much needed. So what's the minister gonna do to get this club back in the house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u113	First of all, I would like to remind you that EUR 600 million is spent every year on the ICT portfolio and that this is not nothing. So in the good understanding between me and Mrs Kooiman: 600 million euros you spend on ICT is not nothing. It is not, therefore, the case that there is no longer any investment. That doesn't mean that choices shouldn't be made. You cannot spend unbridled money on ICT within the national police budget. The PM research has shown that there are ICT challenges, that the basis needs to be in order and that ICT plays an important role in this and that the 86 million extra this year is partly available for ICT and the information portfolio. This means that the ICT budget is at a level in 2016, as indicated in the PM study. PwC does say in the report that choices have to be made. Well, they're made, too. This means that certain activities cannot be carried out in the coming year. It's part of the job. You can't do everything you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u114	So this minister actually thinks it's pretty normal that Inge Philips, deputy head of the National Detective, said: if these 44 million cuts continue, I can't handle that responsibility and I can't do my job, so do I quit? The moment the police have to invest in cybercrime, you can't send the entire innovation club home. And that's exactly what happened now. I look once again at the Minister and ask him once again to bring that club of innovative people into the ICT, because we are tired of the age of The Flintstones in the police force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u115	I don't recognize myself in the image that there would be the Flintstones. I have indicated that, of course, investments are being made in an ongoing agenda, which I would perhaps also like to speed up. However, it is also true that it is not unusual to stay within the budget. I am not going to respond to individual statements by individual police officers, but in general, choices have certainly been made, including with regard to investment. But beware: cybercrime is heavily invested. There are new departments with new people. The vacancies have been opened earlier. Besides, the people there have the equipment they need. Perhaps we want it all even more and better; Mrs Van Toorenburg made a plea for it last week, and I will also follow that argument with a request to the unit concerned to see for itself what the copying machines look like, because that was one of the points Mrs Van Toorenburg made. However, I do not recognize myself in Mrs Kooiman's image.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u116	For the sake of time, the Minister said that he would deal with a number of points in substance in the AA. May I ask, through you, Mr President, if tomorrow he will really focus on the response of VNO-NCW because entrepreneurs feel so put in the cold? I understand from the police how such a process of filing a report goes. I found that deceptive. I really want to talk to the Minister about this tomorrow, because it scares the hell out of me. I can see now why nothing will be solved in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u117	I'd be happy to. I'll do that in detail. Mrs Van Toorenburg does not need to repeat this in her first term tomorrow. I'll be happy to respond to that. There is one point I would like to take with me. Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs Van Tongeren now at the interrupting microphone. Perhaps you'd like to give her the opportunity to interrupt first? If not, I'll continue with my other point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u118	Mrs. Van Tongeren has been there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u119	I'd like to post my last interruption. Can we do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u120	Of course. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u121	However, I would like to have a little more clarity about own funds. According to the Minister, about 156 million is available for this. The Minister has just told me that there is no compulsory or non-compulsory destination. So the police can just spend it. So this year the Chief Constable can just spend the 156 million in its entirety. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u122	Yes and no. No, he could do that in theory, but if he gets below 75 million, he'll have to make a recovery plan. That would be undesirable. As far as I'm concerned, that basically means he's supposed not to. This means that the deficit of around 55 million that we may have in 2016 can be covered by own funds. This can only be done after my approval, because I manage the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u123	Okay, we're a step further. So not the whole amount of 156 million is freely expendable, because the Chief Constable should not be below 75 million in any case. I just heard the Minister say that. So the equity is a lot smaller than the 156 million. If I understand correctly, there is also a non-compulsory target destination on it. The money is intended to cover any unbudgeted setbacks. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u124	In my opinion, that is the essence of an equity: that it will catch a setback that you run into. That is the security that owns. The Chief Constable may appeal to the 75 million, but that only has disastrous consequences. This will require a recovery plan. The thought formation is that of course that is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u125	There are a lot of organisations that have equity for another purpose. They want to do something else with that. That's not just a float to deal with any shortages. So that is not at all self-evident. If it is not intended and can be spent freely, the national police could also use that money to finance something else. If that is not clear, I would like to hear in two periods of time exactly what it is about the possibilities of spending that own funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u126	Or tomorrow at the general meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u127	Mr. Chairman. The question really belongs in this debate. I don't think it's any different than I said. There is an equity of 156 million at the end of 2015. If this falls below the level of 75 million, there will be an obligation to draw up a recovery plan. This recovery plan aims to bring own funds back above 75 million. So if you run short in the year 2016, you can claim own funds with my permission. That's what I agreed with the Chief Constable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u128	Adding a new national policy priority costs money in the form of people and resources. That is why I am bringing it into this debate. Is the Minister prepared to make a new policy priority of combating Moroccan street terror? Every weekend, cars are on fire. Today, another bus is on fire. The windshields fly out almost every day. There really needs to be a national approach now. It costs money. We have to decide that now, because it's just five to twelve now. Is the Minister prepared to make additional money available for this at the moment? Is he willing to use extra people and resources to fight this? This can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u129	I fully share Mr Bontes' concern about the vandalism we have seen in recent weeks, particularly against buses in a number of municipalities in the Netherlands. I have also pointed out on several occasions, and I believe that Mr Bontes is also in the direction of this, that this is really an example in which the local triangle is at stake. The local triangle can deliver customization. The Mayor, the Public Prosecutor and the Chief of the Unit or the Chief of Police can coordinate what is the right approach. This means that priority choices can be made to limit this. Mr Bontes and I share the view that this must be done. I also notice everything that the effort in the Netherlands is aimed at doing so, where it occurs. That is not all over the Netherlands, but it happens and it is a matter of great concern. I think the local triangles take this very nicely and well. I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u130	Unfortunately, it has become, as I say, a national problem. It plays in Vlaardingen, it plays in Amsterdam-Noord, it plays in Ede, it plays in Veghel, it plays in Almere. All the places are part of it, so there really is a need for a rural approach. It really goes all over the Netherlands. If you let go of a targeted rural approach, you're much more effective than when every local triangle has to reinvent the wheel. So I'm asking the Minister for extra policemen and extra detectives to tackle this problem for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u131	Again, it is clear that there are certainly cities where the problem arises. Mr Bontes mentioned a few. That's where policemen are active. That's where the state's attorney's office is. That's where the local mayor is responsible for the police's deployment. That's the system we agreed on. I think that works well. There's a lot of acting going on, and I thought there's been arrests, too. I share the concern, but not Mr Bontes' concern. I feel that the local triangles are very well able to deliver local customization. I think that is also very important. Of course they have to learn from each other. This is the aim of all the partnerships. This is done through the LIEC, through the RIEC's and through the Security Houses. Those are all partnerships. I think that is very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u132	I suggest that you proceed, Minister, but also that you conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u133	I have one more question that really sees the year 2016, Mr. Chairman. That is Mr Van Veen's question on administrative burdens. Mrs van Toorenburg also asked for this. I would like to say the following. I think we should be very pleased with the outcome of the package that the national police have produced. In particular, I would like to express my appreciation for the Meierij team. Mrs Van Toorenburg will immediately know where that is. I've had to look that up. The Meierij team in Brabant has acted as a forerunner to show how to reduce administrative burdens with a number of structural measures. I'm very happy about that. I am pleased to see that these good examples are now being taken over by other units. The great thing about it is that it is not a blueprint that needs to be taken over. If something goes well in the Meijerij, it is first examined whether it will work in other units, other teams and other regions. If so, we'll take it from here. If not, we'll come up with something else. That sounds very good to me. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that it might be even better in a number of areas. I'd like to get back to that tomorrow, but I'm sure that's true. For example, we now see that some forms have been simplified and the number of forms has been reduced. Without any doubt, in an organization that has gone from 26 corps to one national corps, there will still be forms wandering around somewhere that we say can be different and better or that we might even be able to do without them. However, I am very pleased with the result: 5,500 FTE have become available for the core tasks of the police. We should really be very happy about that. I think there is a great deal to be said about this, and I would like to congratulate all those people, individual police officers, who have made such an important contribution to this project. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of answering the questions relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u134	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. Speaking time is 1 minute and 30 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u135	Geez, Chairman, a minute and a half. I'll get started soon. Mr. Chairman. There are two problems to deal with: you make it big or you make it small. That's exactly what this minister is doing: he's making it small. As expected, the good performance of the police is highlighted, with which no one disagrees at all. This is only intended to give us a favourable vote, but I do not think it has been possible to do so. The Minister is therefore trying to make a different tactic through a sum, but that sum is not right under the line. I will therefore make that sum again. The report makes it clear that there is a 170 million hole in 2016. If you get $6 million off that for validation, you'll get $164 million. The Minister will withdraw another 10 million for the search, but that is not true, because the search is not part of the 170 million. This amounts to 164 million less the 86 million out of 188 million, which the Minister spends on the police to close the financial gap. Then there is still an amount of 78 million, and not the amount of around 50 million that the Minister mentioned. In any case, the Chief Constable has to get back to work on steering measures, and if that doesn't work, it will be at the expense of own funds. The Minister says this should be possible, but I disagree. After all, that border is coming into sight very quickly. The Minister says we need a recovery plan. The people at home might be thinking: mwah, a recovery plan. However, a recovery plan is very serious, because that means that the police will be under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. Minister Dijsselbloem is not very happy with the police. I have already mentioned the quotes that show this in my first term. Under curate is the harbinger of bankruptcy, my colleague Kooiman was right about that. How are you gonna fix that? In plain Dutch, this means you have to fire people, and nobody wants to. I therefore hope that the Minister will come up with additional money. I would just like to mention a few quotes that I did not mention in the first term. The Police Control Committee indicated that the budget is artificially closed by means of a structural commitment of own funds. That shouldn't happen. The Court indicated that insufficient account has been taken of the financial consequences of the review note, and the Review Board Attacks Programme Police Information Services indicates that the estimate of the required budget may be far too cautious. In short: there really needs to be money. I shall not make any motions during this debate, but I shall be tabling an amendment tomorrow during the debate on the budget in order to obtain money, because unfortunately this Minister is not making any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u136	Mr. Chairman. You can speak of a blasphemy here, because this minister is performing to dig a very big hole first and throw a few shovels of sand in there, and then say that the whole problem has been solved by the national police. That's how he deals with his finances. Mrs Helder put it nicely when she said that a recovery plan is nothing but bankruptcy. That is what it is all about. National police will have to fire employees at some point, possibly already this year. After all, people have already been fired. I have a very good motion on that point, and I now submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ICT specialists responsible for innovation in national police ICT have been sent home due to financial constraints;]] [[considers that innovation in the national police force is necessary to strengthen the information position of the police and to resolve cybercrime cases;]] [[calls on the government not to stop ICT innovation in the police and to keep the personnel responsible for ICT innovation in service without cutting back on other parts of the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-648]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u137	I'm filing my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not all current police costs and priorities have yet been calculated, including refugee issues, counter-terrorism and the police officer;]] [[considers that there is no concrete plan of action on how to resolve this up to now;]] [[calls on the government to identify all costs for the coming years and also to come up with a plan of approach with Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Swinkels, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-649]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u138	The last motion is about the coming years, but tomorrow we will continue with the debate on the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u139	Mr. Chairman. When I look at the Minister and listen to him, I sometimes wonder if he is actually proud of the way he deals with the police. I remember very well that the minister when he campaigned called for security. But if we look at what's ahead now, then you can't be proud of yourself anymore, can you? I don't like the idea of you taking responsibility for this. I think it's about more than just money. It is about a police organization which, while being so hierarchical and so loyal, ultimately knocks on our door to indicate what is missing and where everything goes wrong. If the Minister doesn't want to see it, we have to deal with it ourselves. I will not table a motion on this, because that makes no sense at all. This minister doesn't want to vouch for the police's finances. They're just hollow words. Unfortunately, tomorrow the Chamber will have to take responsibility for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u140	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the formation of national police forces has led to growing cynicism and high absenteeism among policemen;]] [[Whereas it has already been found that the reorganisation has been seriously delayed and is twice as expensive;]] [[Whereas the extension of the current reorganisation continues to seriously impede the functioning of the police;]] [[calls on the government to continue the reorganisation of national police forces solely on three quick-wins, namely ICT, procurement and work processes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many places in the Netherlands, such as Almere, Gouda, Ede and Amsterdam, are suffering from Moroccan street terror;]] [[Whereas the establishment of car fires and the terrorization of public transport seem to be of a structural nature;]] [[Whereas the national police must act much more firmly against this;]] [[calls on the Government to make the fight against nuisance by Moroccan young people a top national priority and to provide funds for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-650]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-651]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u141	Madam President. Two things are important to D66. First of all, there'll be blue in the street. I'll file the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the national police are still facing financial shortages for 2016;]] [[Whereas the financial deficit should not be at the expense of the operational strength of national police in 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to provide sufficient resources to maintain the operational strength of national police in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schwinkels, Mr Kooiman and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-652]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u142	Secondly, it is crucial that the influx of new police officers is guaranteed. I'll file the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the national police are still facing financial shortages for 2016;]] [[Whereas new influxes are crucial for the future stability of the police organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that sufficient resources are provided to prevent the influx of new police personnel from being reduced as a result of current shortages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schwinkels, Mr Kooiman and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-653]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u143	Mr. Chairman. As is often the case in politics, you sometimes have a repetition of moves. Unfortunately, we have seen the same thing today. The assembled opposition expressed a lot of concern about the rioting and sailing in the police. This was also apparent from the text of the representative of the Government Party Party of Labour. In fact, the Minister said that everything will be fine, you will sleep quietly, there will be enough money, the police will make it. My party finds it very regrettable that this cabinet rarely sets out the priorities on principle, what should we really put our money on? It looks at the amount of money that is needed. In fact, the reverse process is always at stake: there is so much money, so it has to be pushed in there. The Chief Constable will have to take care of that. I have co-signed motions from colleagues from D66 and the SP to try to change the Minister's mind on a number of points. Tomorrow morning I will not be with the AO Police because I will be debating the Mining Act in plenary session, a very different but also important subject for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u144	Mr Kuzu and Mr Marcouch do not need a second term. I shall suspend the sitting for two minutes so that the Minister can prepare his response to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u145	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the spokesmen for their second term contribution. There were a few things that might not have sounded so nice, but which were undoubtedly meant to be very nice. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me how I felt as Minister responsible for 65,000 police officers. I'm fine. I've been fighting as a minister since the day I got here for those people. I do this by carefully completing the reorganisation, by completing the staff reorganisation as quickly as possible, by ensuring a good collective agreement and by making every time, at every opportunity I have had so far, extra money released by the government to the national police. As far as I'm concerned, I've said it funnyly, over the next 20 years, because I think the police deserve it, but not just the police; I have other organizations within my department that deserve it to get the same attention from me and they get it. That doesn't mean the trees grow into the sky. That does not mean that I can add unbridled extra money to my budget. That doesn't mean that choices shouldn't be made every once in a while. That is precisely why we are holding this debate carefully. Mrs Kooiman says: the minister digs a big hole and then throws in two shovels of sand. I don't know what she thinks, but when you talk about structural additional investments of hundreds of millions, I think Mrs Kooiman is a little short of me and the government with her metaphor. For the rest, I appreciate the warm interest in the national police and other enforcement services, because they are undoubtedly doing important work. Then I'll get to the Kooiman c.s. motion. in piece No. 648 on ICT innovation. That's what I've been discussing with her. It is a breach of the budget. There's no cover for her request. It is also a bit of micromanagement: want to send with the chief of police of the national police. I shouldn't have that need myself, let alone that the Chamber should want it to. So I'm going to have to discourage that motion. In the motion-Kooiman c.s. in piece No. 649 is requested for a plan of approach with Princess Day. I only know one plan of action with Princess Day. It's called the budget and the Millions Note. There will be. Something other than that will not come. For that reason, I advise against this motion. His motion in part No. In any case, Mr Bontes has already submitted a proposal at least once, perhaps twice before. For the same reason as the last time I refer to the Acts I shall not advise her. The Bontes motion in part No. 651 is about Moroccan youth. We had an exchange of views on this in the debate. There is no reason to make this a national priority. Insofar as the fight against nuisance is not a national priority, the local triangles are very capable of doing so. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u146	My motion to part No. 650 has been updated. Read the news in the AD today about cynicism and absenteeism in the national police. This is directly linked to the bureaucratic reorganization. It's gotta stop. Finish her off. Save the national police, but finish that reorganisation and continue on the three quick-wins I mentioned: ICT, procurement and work processes. The Minister should read her in the light of current events.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u147	The reorganisation must be in the review note, as agreed with the Chamber. That is the basis of the reorganisation. That is not what Mr Bontes means here. That is why I maintain my advice and advise against the motion. The motion-shops c.s. in piece No. 652 calls on the Government to provide sufficient resources to ensure the operational strength of national police in 2016. If Mrs Swinkels means by this motion that the number of 49,800 agents, which has been agreed with the Chamber as the lower limit, should be maintained in 2016, there are over 700 more than that at the moment, then my answer is that this is the starting point of the national police budget. That is why the motion for a resolution supports policy, but if Mrs Swinkels means her, she may also be very superfluous, because that is precisely what the entire budget of the national police and the agreements with the Chamber are seeing. So she's a reconfirmation of the appointment with the Chamber to have 49,800 agents. If I see it wrong, Mrs Swinkels must say it, but with all due respect, I do not see the added value of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u148	Mrs. Swinkels, short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u149	A motion must, of course, be seen in relation to all the other means that the Chief Constable now has to cut back. He's gotta do that, 'cause he's got to make some money today for the 50 million deficit. You can fire people. That is not desirable and the agreements with the unions do not provide for this. The purpose of this motion is to ensure that it does not go at the expense of operational strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u150	Then the question is what operational strength does Mrs Swinkels mean. We've agreed an operational strength of 49,800 people. We're up there. We also have a non-operational strength of eight thousand and some supportive people. So that's where we're above the agreed level. In accordance with the agreements with the Chamber, people will leave the police organisation. This is not done on the basis of dismissal, but on the basis of natural progress and other measures. So there will be people leaving the police organization, but that makes sense because that's how we agreed a few years ago. So if Mrs. Swinkels doesn't want that, then the motion is uncovered and I have to dissuade her. But if Mrs Swinkels appreciates it very much if I read the motion in such a way that the 49.800 plus supporting staff will be maintained in accordance with the appointment with the Chamber in 2016, then that is policy. I cannot oppose that, but the added value of the motion is not very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u151	The added value is that it sends out a signal that this measure should certainly not be taken throughout the whole package of measures that can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u152	There is no need for that signal, because the Chief Constable has the resources required to employ 49 800 people in accordance with the budget. I leave the motion judgment Chamber, but I see it as supporting policy and supporting the 2016 budget. I do not see the added value of the motion very quickly, with all due respect. In the motion-shops c.s. in piece No. 653 is asked to provide sufficient resources to prevent the influx of new police personnel from being reduced as a result of current shortages. If Mrs Swinkels also referred to this motion in the sense of "for 2016," the budget provides for what the influx of the police should be. Those appointments are just being carried out. I have already indicated in the debate that the influx of the police in 2016 is higher than in previous years, as a result of the way we budgeted and as a result of an additional investment. With that, the motion is also full support of policy. Then you could say that she is Chamber of Justice, but this also applies: what is a budget for if we are to secure all parts of the budget with a motion? I do not think that is appropriate, but I leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-35.u153	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
