ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. There's been people wearing facial covers for ages. And now that you occasionally see in the statue someone wearing a burqa, here again comes the fourth bill that explicitly or implicitly wants to ban the wearing of such a burqa. After Wilders, Camp and PVV cabinet-Rutte I the VVD and the PvdA come with it. Let me be clear, too. As a woman, I wish no woman would have to wear face-covering clothes and want to wear them. Because I think it's important that you can see each other's faces and emotions. It's part of our daily lives. Without the facial expression, there's something missing in communication with the other. But does that justify a legal ban? Absolutely not. In a democratic rule of law, you don't ban clothes you don't like. I was hoping that the times in which morals were legally laid down were over. I thought those times were over a few decades ago. However, it seems as if the present legislative proposal comes from fear of the other. No decent society should be guided by this. What's this bill about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	I see Mr Monasch is already trying to interrupt. Mrs Koşer Kaya has just begun her speech, Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	There is just a reference to the democratic rule of law. Could Mrs Koşer Kaya say why, in a democratic constitutional state, I am obliged to look at a symbol of the oppression of women?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	Ah, Mr Monasch is typically an example of a man who thinks that wearing a burka comes by definition from oppression. I don't agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	Can Mrs Koşer Kaya tell me how many men walk down the street in a burqa or with a nikab?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	That would be a nice face, but I don't think there are men walking around in a burqa or with a nikab.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	This is because these are dress articles prescribed by a faith and men. They force women to wear those clothes. It would be a credit to Mrs Koşer Kaya, as a democrat and a liberal, if she were to distance herself from it. I do not want to look at how women are oppressed in a democratic rule of law, and I do not want to see it in public space. What one does behind the front door is one's own business. But I do not understand how Mrs Koşer Kaya can allow women to walk the streets in a democratic rule of law in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	It is precisely because we have fought these freedoms that I will fight here every day that others may look different and therefore dress differently. It's part of a Democrat. That certainly belongs to an emancipated party like mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	Please continue with your speech, Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	What is the point of this proposal? Is this about security? That does not seem to me to be the case. If you want to apply for a passport with facial clothing and refuse identification, you will not get a passport. Anyone who walks into a gas station with an integral helmet is not welcome. Those travelling with a personal OV-chipkaart must identify themselves if requested. Does the government really believe that public transport is not safe now because people are allowed to travel anonymously? That would not be the solution to a burqa ban. Everyone would have to buy a ticket by name and it would have to be checked everywhere. Does the Minister want to go that way? I hope not. Or take a civil servant, lecturer or caregiver. He or she will have agreements with the employer on a representative appearance. Face-covering clothing won't fall under that soon. Has the Minister followed the ban on peasants on the French coast this summer? Did he see how women there were forced by the state to undress? Iran and Saudi Arabia were undoubtedly delighted at the fact that they are no longer the only countries with fashion police. Is that the Minister's way? Or does he still support his earlier ruling in an interview that he doesn't want to enforce the law and expects the police to barely issue fines? But if so, what else is left but pure symbolic politics? Doesn't that put extra pressure on the administrators of educational buildings and hospitals, on tram conductors and on bus drivers? They will have to say: you know that this is not allowed. But without this law, you can now also be asked not to wear face-covering clothing, often based on legal identification or house rules. I'm not the only one who's critical. The Council of State was even devastating. I've rarely seen him so critical. He also pointed to the lack of need for the legislative amendment and stated that it would be contrary to Article 9 of the ECHR, to freedom of religion. Yes, the freedom of religion, I say to my colleague from the Christian Union, who I see murmuring there. Doesn't the Minister fear that the same will happen as in France? The aforementioned burkini ban was swept off the table by Conseil d'État, the French Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	More in the context of the way in which the draft law is dealt with, but also with me, I would like to say that I believe that'murmuring' can also be formulated in a different way. Let's get Article 9 of the ECHR. The Council of State has indeed asked the Cabinet to better support that point. That's what the Cabinet did. I am curious, in itself, that will also be a question of mine to the cabinet whether it is adequately secured. But does Mrs Koşer Kaya not agree with me that on this very point we are looking for a balance between freedom of religion and the way we are used to dealing with each other in the Netherlands? That is by being able to look each other in the eye, as the two of us are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'm used to it, Mrs Schouten is used to it, and we think it's important. The point here, however, is: are we going to legislate on this or do we think it is important that people can live their religion and dress the way they want? Do we tell people to emancipate at their own speed or are we going to enforce it by law? We disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	That is just the question, because Mrs Koşer Kaya does not know my input yet, but that aside. In my view, this bill does not provide for a complete burqa ban. This bill regulates that in a number of places where normal human interaction is necessary for people to really understand themselves well, we do not allow face-covering clothing. I taste so little of the weighting of these different freedoms and responsibilities with Mrs Koşer Kaya. Has she really not thought about it at all or put some sort of weighting in it for herself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	Luckily, our thinking doesn't stop. That is precisely why we say here every time we see changes in society, we also call them. However, this can already be done in the kind of places Mrs Schouten calls. If a school has made a rule that you can't stand in front of the class with face-covering clothes, that can also be arranged now. If you pick up your passport, you'll be asked to identify yourself. It's a legal obligation. You can do that now. Considering what we're banning now, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mrs. Schouten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	This bill goes a little further than just standing in front of the classroom. It goes a little further than picking up the passport, because then there is indeed already an identification requirement. This bill also involves, for example, that teachers are in conversation with parents who wear such clothing, which makes it difficult for teachers to have a good discussion and understanding in a place where a standard applies for the way you interact. It's true at a school. Again, I'm looking for Mrs Koşer Kaya's weighting. She says it's all possible, which in some cases isn't. Don't we find some kind of middle ground with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	At a school, you can make arrangements about this. I really do not see what problem this is solving. It's just symbol law, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	Of course, Mrs Koşer Kaya is free to draw the map of religious freedom. I find it rather disappointing on the part of D66 that this is done in an extremely uncourteous manner, in the form of a challenge and a derogatory formulation, which is deliberately chosen. So far, I have always had the impression that D66 was one of the parties that appreciates the kindness of Parliament. Anyway, that's Mrs. Koşer Kaya's choice. It has, she says, rarely read as much destructive criticism as in the opinion of the Council of State. I agree with Mrs Schouten's questions, to which Mrs Koşer Kaya has so far replied very evasively. The Council of State has rightly appointed a number of points. If D66 looks at how that comment has been taken into account, will it respond to the desire to carefully consider the private choices of people and public security?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	When it comes to security and there is a suspicion that it is at stake, you can already ask for identification. In a hospital you can agree that no face-covering clothes are worn by nurses. We can do that now. If you see that in practice there are legal obligations then house rules, what does this add? I can't think of anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u21	I note that Mrs Koşer Kaya is once again making an extremely attractive move, but the question is not. It criticises this bill and it covers itself by appealing to the concerns raised by the Council of State. Then we started working on that. Does the way in which the criticisms of the Council of State have been addressed respond to the direction that D66 is in favour of or not? Is this bill an improvement or not? Is there a better balance between private choices and public interests or not? Yes or no, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u22	The balance doesn't explain you like I do. If I explained the balance in such a way that there was a lack of law, I would have defended it here. But this is symbol legislation, because there are already possibilities. I explain that to you every time, but you probably find that a little less comfortable. In practice, it already happens by means of legislation, or by means of house rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u23	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u24	Once again, Mrs Koşer Kaya uses the word "symbol legislation," ignoring the possibility of signal legislation. Once again, I note that Mrs Koşer Kaya simply does not answer the question. My question concerns the relationship between the criticism of the Council of State, what happened to it and how it ended up in this law. Anyway, she's free not to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u25	I've explained it repeatedly, but apparently the answer doesn't appeal. There's not much I can do about that. Moreover, the Council of State has criticised it, but the government's response has remained the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u26	I have stood up for a moment, because I find Mrs Koşer Kaya's story extremely confusing so far. On the one hand she says: this is a terrible law, for the burqa is forbidden. On the other hand, she says: in health care, education, public transport and the government there are all house rules and this law does not add anything to that. What is it? Is it a terrible law because the burqa is banned or is it a terrible law because it adds nothing to the rules that are already there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u27	I have been very clear in my speech: this law does not add anything. In practice, you can already make house rules for the ban that is in place here today. Furthermore, when it comes to security, you can already legally request identification. If you get your passport, you can already legally expect to be asked to show your face, otherwise you won't get your passport with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u28	But then half of Mrs. Koşer Kaya's story expires...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u29	You made up the other half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. How are we gonna do it here today? Who's talking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u31	You.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you. Half of D66's contribution expires, because apparently today it is not a law banning burqa. It is about whether the rules currently laid down in education, care, public transport and municipalities are house rules that D66 can live with or that D66 cannot live with. If, according to D66, the house rules that are laid down everywhere, in the bus, in the care, in schools and in municipalities, are fine house rules, then that is no reason to be against the law. If Mrs Koşer Kaya says that those rules are wrong, what should be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u33	The moment you explain very well why this law doesn't add anything, you actually say: this law is not necessary. I don't see why I should be in favour of this law. Again, it's symbol law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u34	I have another question, because Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mrs D66 often stand here when it comes to religious expressions in public life, such as Christians, but also others. D66 is always very critical of that. There are hundreds of thousands of Muslims living in the Netherlands, who can all live their faith and their beliefs without burka, but when it comes to a very small extremist group, these interests must be defended suddenly. Therefore, when it comes to D66's views on religion, I do not see a great deal of balance in action here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u35	There is a great deal of balance in this, because everything we advocate here is also about individual freedom, whether it is Islamic individual freedom or Christian or Jewish. We'll check it out. We are restricting that individual freedom today. Finally. You might ask yourself, who is the most affected by sanctioning? The woman, who is affected by the need for care, education or transport, or the man or community who exerts compulsion or urge that leads to wearing a burqa?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u36	Excuse me, I came running a little late because I had to think about whether I wanted to interrupt on this. Because I didn't understand it anymore either. Will D66 now stand up for the individual freedom of religious people, who are not even allowed to attend their divine service on Sunday mornings in peace? If this cabinet comes up with a law to maybe give a little space to municipalities or not, we don't have to have that discussion here. D66 gives you another blow of grace that makes you completely uncomfortable. Soon even someone who believes very much and wants to be with his family on Sunday and wants to go to church will not be allowed to close his shop in a mall. Is D66 going to stand up here in this house for the individual freedom of religious people? With all due respect, it really shouldn't get weirder!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u37	I will be happy to discuss the initiative law on the Sunday law with my colleague from the CDA. I hope this can be done before the elections. In that law, too, we argue for rest at times when people want it for themselves and not because the Sunday law is prescribed. In fact, by deleting the Sunday Law as a term, we have ensured that churches should be protected in the sense that you can go there freely. We've incorporated that into the Initiative Act. We also have a Jewish community in the Netherlands that wants to rest on Friday. We have humanist people. They might want some rest on Wednesdays. The fact is that that peace is up to the individual, not the state. There is the question of separation from the Church and the State. In this case, too, there is a separation between Church and State, because what people wear, I do not go about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u38	It is a long answer in which D66 once again emphasizes that she shopes very randomly in religious freedom, where it comes out to express the image that she cares about individual freedoms. Meanwhile, with the same ease, it restricts the freedoms of large groups in such a way that no one recognizes herself in D66. I find it sad and I find it completely unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u39	I am today fighting individual freedom for women to carry what they want to wear, precisely because I believe that we should not restrict the freedoms for which we have fought, not from fear but from a factual basis. Do you promote social participation and emancipation by forcing a choice of clothing? In that respect, the PvdA's list-taker battle brought us another surprising insight. Asscher doesn't find the burkini and the headscarf any form of emancipation, Samsom does. I think this minister was on Samsom's team. Then how does he rhyme this law with his choice? Doesn't he put the women we want to support at a disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u40	That was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u41	That's right. I have a bit of a problem with the burkini or the headscarf being discussed here. That is absolutely not the case. This law doesn't change anything. I fully agree with Mrs Koşer Kaya that there must be an emancipation struggle. In fact, the PvdA comes first in this. But don't link that to this law now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u42	Great, then I assume that the PvdA will not support this law either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a proposal to ban the wearing of facial clothing in part: in public transport, in public buildings, in schools and in health care institutions. To be very direct: I cannot imagine that there are parents who were used to bringing their children with an integral helmet or a ski mask to school. In practice, therefore, it will be mainly about the approximately 400 women in the Netherlands wearing a nikab. This debate is affecting their lives, but it is also about the character of our society, about who we are, what our ways are and whether we are prepared to stand up for it. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, I'm telling you right away, but how we stand in it, we're drawing a line for facial clothing in certain places, for example in classrooms, in courtrooms or in health care. That's not an easy trade-off. The arrival of Islam in the Netherlands has put us on new social issues. Although this is a general ban on facial clothing, the small but visible group of nikab and any burqa carriers has placed us on a new issue. Where does religious freedom stop and the enforceable standard begin? This is already the fifth bill that seeks to answer that question by banning all or part of facial clothing. None of the previous attempts made it to the finish line. We have had Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders' own-initiative proposal that proposed a burqa ban, we have had the initiative-law proposal that wanted to ban it in public transport and in public buildings, we have had the government's bill not to allow it in education, and we have had the proposal from the Rutte I cabinet for a general ban on facial clothing. The fact that we have seen so many legislative proposals passed, but that none of them reached the finish line, also shows that it is difficult to properly weigh the two conflicting interests here. On the one hand, you have the freedom of faith of very orthodox Muslims. At best, they themselves believe that their faith is asking them to fully cover themselves. That is why this bill is touching their deepest conviction. On the other hand, you have the social norm of normal interaction. Being able to look each other in the face is an elementary form of civilization. Face-covering clothing stands in the way of this. It is an ultimate form of isolation which makes living together very difficult and which separates these women from the rest of society. Moreover, there are ideas about the position of the woman behind which I find it difficult. Personally, I can only imagine that as a woman you choose to be incarcerated behind such a nikab or burqa. That is contrary to how we deal with each other in the Netherlands. It is at odds with the society I see before me. Let me make it personal: it is also contrary to my view as a Christian about men and women. We don't have to hide from God; we're just made in his image. We don't have to hide from other people; we're just made to relate to each other, to have contact with each other. That personal conviction does not immediately lead to me being in favour of a general ban on facial clothing. Despite my disgust for the burqa, for my group the freedom of faith of every human being weighs heavily. Tolerance sometimes hurts. Wherever possible, society must want to bear this pain when it comes to beliefs. Faith beliefs come so close to the essence of people that the government must be reluctant to enter into it. But that freedom of religion is never absolute. There are situations where the importance of society and the social standard weigh so heavily that there may be a need for a restriction of religious freedom. I mentioned being able to look at each other as a basic condition for living together. My group believes that this is all the stronger in the sphere of schools, government, public transport and health care institutions. There, face-covering prevents communication between them in such a way as to seriously impede the functioning of that atmosphere. Moreover, facial cover threatens social security in such places. I therefore believe that in schools, in health care institutions and in the public sector, the social interest is so important that a specific ban on this is acceptable. In recent years, in our election programmes, we have also drawn a line on these very points for facial clothing: at school, when you are in court or a municipal official, or when you need care. Then the norm is that you can look each other in the face and otherwise communication is not possible and social security is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u44	I very much agree with the first part of Mrs Schouten's speech. I agree with her that a burqa or a nikab indeed creates distance. Mrs Schouten then turned to the situation of schools, for example. But it is precisely those schools, and indeed those doctors, that say: we do not need this ban at all; it is even undesirable. How does Mrs Schouten feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u45	I'll get the bill. The third paragraph of Article 1 of the bill explicitly states "I also agree that a person may be exempted from the ban at the time he resides in non-residential parts." That is a bit technical, but that is the case, for example, if someone is in the room of a hospital or a general practitioner's practice or if someone is staying in a healthcare institution indefinitely. A person can then be exempted from the prohibition if, for example, that person would not be able to go to the general practitioner himself. We think this is a good addition, because you must be able to weigh in it. Otherwise, it may indeed be rather difficult if someone needs care and if the threshold to go to the hospital or the general practitioner becomes so high that this does not happen. I am glad that this has been mentioned in that article and that this embarrassment can be removed, so that this does not have to hinder someone from accepting care, for example. I see from that that the search we are making in our speech was also made by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u46	This, of course, complicates things: on the street it is not forbidden, but in the hospital it is, and if you are in the hospital for longer, it should not be forbidden. So the situation is getting very complicated. I am curious to know who still understands that, but I asked my question because doctors and also people in education explicitly state in Christian and Catholic education that they do not need this ban and that it is unnecessary and undesirable. I would like to have a reaction to that, because I haven't heard it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u47	I have also spoken to schools that say that this is a bit of support for them, because they now have to explain the rule they themselves have set. Sometimes there is a discussion in which it can be quite complicated for a school to explain what the rules are and how they are applied. If someone says there is no legal prohibition in fact, the school must agree with that. This bill will provide that clarity. So you can turn it around: this is a codification of a standard that already exists. It provides clarity, perhaps also for future situations where there is another discussion about the interpretation. I believe that the clarity that is needed here is very good. The parties can then work with this in practice. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the drafting of the legislative proposal, firstly about the powers of the organisations. If I have read the bill correctly, it does not change, for the rest, the competence of organisations and institutions outside the scope of the bill, such as shops, to set their own rules on facial clothing. Is that right? Will they remain able to include self-employed persons in these house rules that facial clothing is forbidden? This means, therefore, that this legislative proposal does not restrict the scope of such institutions, such as shops, because it only sees a number of specific situations. I'd like to get a confirmation from the cabinet. The scope of the proposal is not always clear to me. It's getting a little specific, but I think it's important for the Acts to mention this. Does a community center that is paid 100% from government subsidies fall under the definition of "government building"? And what about, for example, the independent administrative bodies, for example, if you have to apply for a benefit elsewhere in the municipality? For me, that delineation is still a little unclear. I would like the Minister to clarify this. Finally, the question I asked Mrs Koşer Kaya in an interruption on the sustainability of the ECHR bill. The Council of State criticised the justification of the bill. Under the second paragraph of Article 9 of the ECHR, the ban we are discussing today must be well substantiated. I see that the cabinet has given further support in these comments, but I would like to know from the Minister whether, in his view, that support is now legally binding. In my contribution, I have made it clear that this is a balance between two interests for the Christian Union: on the one hand, the freedom of religion of orthodox Muslims and, on the other hand, the maintenance of social standards necessary to live together and social security. I am in principle positive about the design of this bill. I look forward to the government's response to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would like to say that I think it is a bizarre face, not really a face, literally that there are a number of people sitting in the gallery with a nikab. I'm glad we're gonna put an end to this kind of crazy. In Islam, the woman is historically defined according to the man. She is primary daughter, sister or wife of. Her identity as an independent and unique individual is not present or merely flawed. How different is that for us in the free West? The West is the only civilisation block where women are truly free, where women have the opportunity to organise their lives in the way they themselves wish and consider good. That's how it's supposed to be. Today we are talking about the bill relating to the partial ban on facial clothing. In normal Dutch: the burka ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u49	Before I give Mr Kuzu the floor, I would point out that speaking in the public gallery is always complicated because they cannot say anything back. Having said that, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u50	That is not addressed to Mr Van Klaveren, but to you. These are visitors to the House of Representatives and with that they are guests. I also think that they should be treated with respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u51	Yeah, but I also think these guys should treat us with respect. I don't really think showing up in a nikab is a testament to respect. There are several reasons why the burqa and nikab are banned a variant in which only the eyes are visible................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am thinking first of all of open and normal communication and public security, but also of the citizens' sense of security. Safety and open interaction are fundamental prerequisites for forming a society at all. The burka gets in the way of this. In addition, this obviously affects the integration issue directly. Even more literally turning away from our open and free society is almost impossible. The burqa is the symbol of the inequality of men and women within Islam. It runs counter to Western core values such as the freedom of the individual and the equality of men and women. The burka and nikab are fabrics prisons that make normal functioning within our society impossible in different ways. VNL therefore calls not for a partial, but for a general ban on burqa to be read in French. It is a good thing that a first step is taken towards banning burqa. VNL, however, is disappointed to note that we are talking today about a undressed legislative proposal. There will be no general ban from this cabinet as the first legislative proposal envisaged. Boerkas on streets and squares and in shopping malls are apparently no problem for the VVD and the Labour Party. This is yet another turn of the VVD. Indeed, it was the VVD that stated in 2008 and 2010 that it wanted a total ban. Member of Parliament, Mr Kamp, even earlier tabled an own-initiative proposal. That was then and now the VVD goes back into the slump of the Labour Party, who doesn't want a burka ban at all. It was then MP Dijsselbloem who stated that a burqa ban was an expression of intolerance against non-believers. This is how we know the Labour Party: no regard for the victims, women in this case, but for political correctness and terrible cultural relativism. This is also linked to this bill: political correctness and cultural relativism. Dare not explicitly mention that the burqa is an expression of women's oppression and exclusion, and the artificial involvement of integral helmets shows the fear of speaking about the radical elements within Islam. The burka and nikab do not belong in the Netherlands. Open interaction and security are fundamental prerequisites for forming a society at all. The burka gets in the way of this. Radical Islamic expressions prevent integration and hinder the emancipation of Islamic women, not only in government buildings but certainly in the streets. This cabinet should stand for our freedom and openness and the equality of men and women. Unfortunately, it does not. It doesn't seem like it's worth it. Although it is a slap in the face of the original, my group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. You work behind the front desk of a gas station and a moped rider walks in. Then you'll be happy if that person takes off his helmet. It's only natural for you to see who you're up against, isn't it? It's a small effort to turn off the helmet. The pump operator can immediately assess whether someone is in good faith and the moped driver apparently has no reason to protect himself from, for example, security cameras. I think many will agree with me that it is not weird at all that a pump operator asks people to take off that helmet so that there can be normal human contact. That's what happens. It is not for nothing that the vast majority of the Dutch people agree with this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u53	I was at customs a while ago. In front of me was a woman with a nikab. She could also raise a part of the nikab for a moment to be identified. It's similar, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think we are talking here about the importance of being able to look at each other openly and communicate. Communicating is not only done through language, but also by looking at someone's eyes. I think that's what the bill's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr Azmani started with the example of someone who can drop off his helmet at the time he is asked to do so, and I say that someone with a nikab can also be asked to show the face. I repeat my question: isn't that the same? I hope I can get a clear answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u56	I think Mrs Voortman has a very clear answer. I'm just sketching an image of how it works in practice: it's perfectly normal to, for example, turn off the integral helmet in the public domain and in public communication. That is what we expect to see in the bill, for example, when you arrive in a health care institution, when you receive education, when you enter a government building or when you travel by public transport. That human contact is perfectly normal. Not for nothing does the vast majority of the Dutch population agree with this. However much opponents of the ban on facial clothing want to argue that there are all kinds of other arguments against this ban, this is, in essence, a case of normal communication between two people, as we are used to in this country. That means you see who you're talking to and you see the other person's facial expression. The government isn't basically about that pumping station. As much as we agree with that principle, the VVD does not want to impose on companies how they could deal with a ban on facial clothing. That is basically up to the companies themselves. However, I welcome the recent ruling by an Advocate-General of the European Court of Justice that companies are free to include such a ban in company regulations. This supports me in the idea that the government may make the same demand. The wearing of face-covering clothing creates a sense of insecurity in society. By covering your face with a burqa, a nikab, a balaclava or an integral helmet, you shut yourself off from others. When you take your kids to school or you take the train to go to work, you want people around you to just see you and that they can just talk to you. Hiding from the people around you doesn't fit in with our society. Face-covering clothing is therefore at odds with what we stand for in the Netherlands. Let us be clear that we have traditionally been a tolerant country. For that, our ancestors fought hard. Everything can be done in the Netherlands: it doesn't matter if you have a cock comb, if you're full of piercings, or if you're wearing an orange robe or a suit. Even if you want to change your appearance for your faith, you're free. The VVD stands for the freedoms in the Netherlands, but we have something to say to each other about how you behave in public space. It gives people a sense of insecurity if they do not know who they are facing. For this reason, a ban on wearing face-covering clothing is a long-cherished desire of the VVD. If you cover your face with a burqa or a nikab, or with an integral helmet or a balaclava, you close off from the other. The ban on wearing face-covering clothing in public areas such as areas for education, care and public transport and in public buildings is, in the VVD's view, a good first step towards a general ban on wearing them in a public space. Because that is the final objective for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a law which must solve a problem of which we do not know its nature or its extent. The cabinet wants to ban the wearing of a burka or nikab in public spaces such as government buildings, care institutions and schools. On request, the Minister indicated that he did not have up-to-date figures on the number of women carrying a burka or nikab. He hasn't had any research on why they're doing that either. In the latter, GroenLinks has the major problem of principle with this law. In addition, there is no concrete reason for this law. However, elections are coming. It is therefore very much the case that we are dealing with this law mainly with The Hague and party political interests rather than with women.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u58	I hear Mrs Voortman say that the Minister himself has not investigated why women do so. Has GroenLinks ever investigated that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u59	I didn't investigate that myself. You don't have to, because in 2009 the University of Amsterdam did research and a researcher had talks with women wearing face veils.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u60	Okay, but GroenLinks hasn't done his own research and is actually very poorly informed. I would then like to ask Mrs Voortman whether GroenLinks will from now on not wear trousers as big as those of Islam in front of the PVV, since we have looked into everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u61	You can also have doubts about these investigations by the PVV. I refer here to a 2009 study that has been carried out. I blamed the Minister for not having actual figures. With this bill, the government is going to interfere with women's choice of clothing and we do not know why these women choose to wear a burka or nikab. The approach of the law is that women are forced to wear a burqa, but is it in all cases? Let there be no misunderstanding: GroenLinks stands for the freedom of all women. Women forced or not to wear a particular garment by others must be protected. The same applies to the forced carrying of the burqa or nikab. With this bill, the government is going to interfere with women's choice of clothing and, ironically, the cabinet seems to be doing what it says it wants to fight, namely for women to decide what to wear. GroenLinks is critical of the burka and the nikab. Although no extensive research has been carried out since 2009, it seems that wearing a burka or nikab can isolate a woman. GroenLinks wants as much active participation in society as possible, which we all form. GroenLinks, however, is also a liberal party that stands for self-determination and freedom. It is precisely as a liberal politician that it is important to stand up for the freedom of people, including those people you do not agree with. Whether it is about freedom of expression, freedom of faith, freedom of association or freedom of choice of clothing: it is essentially about the same thing, about the right to make your own choices without interference from the government. The difference between the Netherlands and strict religious regimes as it should be in Saudi Arabia is that we will never impose on a woman how to dress. What GroenLinks believes should be done is that we are fully committed to ensuring that women participate in society. The law proposed by the government now does the opposite. Women who want to wear burqa will be more excluded from society as a result of this ban. The same law violates the freedoms that we all consider important in our society. We must remain in dialogue with these women and reach out to them so that they can take advantage of the freedoms offered by Dutch society. This can be done, for example, by supporting the groups that are committed to the resilience of these women.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u62	GroenLinks talks about fundamental rights: freedom of expression, freedom of faith. Sounds like they're all unlimited for GroenLinks. So you cannot limit that, because they are far too important for that. That can't be GroenLinks' argument, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u63	I have indeed indicated that we consider freedoms to be very important. I think they are also perfectly suited to our Western society. But there are situations in which other people are sometimes hindered by it. I've heard what doctors and teachers say about this. According to them, there are no people at all who say that they are being obstructed in their freedoms by taking the freedom to let someone wear a particular garment that we may have difficulty wearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u64	In medical and educational institutions, there are rules at present which prohibit the wearing of facial clothing. So I don't understand this argument. I think this is even more important. I understand that this is a dilemma; I see that dilemma as well. What I don't understand is that GroenLinks now seems to deny that dilemma, by saying that we have freedom of faith and that you can't touch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u65	I am very sorry that Mr Recourt of the Labour Party does not see the difference between rules of institutions and this bill. With this bill, we are going to introduce a public ban. So we are going to state how this is to be implemented. The rules of these institutions are designed to ensure that the work within these institutions is done properly. I believe that this is a fundamental difference: government rules and rules that ensure that the work within institutions can be done properly. I am really sorry that the Labour Party does not see that difference. Mr. Chairman. Four times earlier, a law was written to ban the burqa in whole or in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u66	I am very curious to see where the freedom of the other has remained for GroenLinks. I am referring here to the freedom of the other to feel safe in a society. We in the VVD are very much in favour of everyone in this society feeling safe. Where is that individual when you say that it does not matter that a burqa, a nikab, an integral helmet or a balaclava is worn in a society on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u67	In my view, this bill does not provide for a ban on wearing a burqa, nikab or balaclava in the street. I don't understand that part of the question. I have already said that I am concerned with the question of whether individual freedoms of people are being obstructed. I'd like to have a conversation with people. I think it will improve communication. I just said it when I interrupted you: if you can ask someone who wears a helmet to drop it off to identify him, you can of course do the same with a burqa or nikab. So I don't see any obstruction. In that I feel strengthened by what doctors and teachers say, namely that they do not see it that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u68	I'm gonna try it again with Mrs. Voortman. Of course, this bill does not take that into account, but Mrs Voortman knows the wishes of the VVD on this point. Apart from that, suppose there's an individual on the train with a balaclava on it, for example, who's calling loudly. One might then tend to want to speak to someone like that because he is calling loudly on the train. But perhaps one does not dare, because one cannot see, for example, the look of that person: does he give an okay nod when he is corrected or is he perhaps aggressive because he is being addressed because he is calling too loud on the train? Isn't that really what this is about: the social interaction in this society, including in public transport, for example? You need to know who's around you, you need to be able to talk to people when you want to, and you need to be able to see what it does to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u69	I don't know how often it occurs that someone is afraid that a woman in a nikab who is calling and being corrected might react aggressively. I don't see that. What matters here is that we have the law that there are freedoms. I refer to freedom of expression, freedom of education, freedom of choice of clothing, for example. That's what this is about. I think that is a fundamental freedom. And that's what I'm suggesting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mrs. Voortman's just going around. It's about the other's freedom. She now prides herself on the freedom of an individual to wear face-covering clothing. That's what GroenLinks stands for. But Mrs Voortman does not weigh that against the interest of that other individual who also wants to be free in this society and feel safe. A prerequisite for feeling free is safety. Does Mrs. Voortman weigh that up in her consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u71	Sure. I don't feel like other people need to feel less free because they see someone wearing a nikab or a burqa. There's a guy in my neighborhood who sometimes wears a burqa or a nikab. It doesn't make me feel any less free. I'd rather she didn't, but it doesn't make me feel any less free. I say: then it is a balancing of freedoms to carry something or not, and then the other balance comes to the top for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u72	I would like to continue on that point of freedom. I hear Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks say that we must go on the path of emancipation. That is actually the conclusion: not the ban, but the emancipation. GroenLinks was at the forefront of the discussion here about the SGP women's position and the SGP whether or not to grant freedom of association, I would like to add that to have its own views on it. Why didn't GroenLinks go there on the path of emancipation and why is that suddenly the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u73	I do not know for a moment what specific proposal by GroenLinks has been discussed here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u74	Let me clarify something. A trial was initiated from the Clara Wichmann Institute. GroenLinks was in the lead. GroenLinks helped to organise that trial process. Then it had to be legally enforced and then it was not said: let us do it by the way of emancipation. Why, then, should face-covering clothing go through emancipation and can it not be banned in very specific areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mrs Schouten is mistaken. GroenLinks didn't do that. There were people who were members of GroenLinks involved, but it was not an initiative of the GroenLinks Group. I'm afraid that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u76	Then I'm going to ask the question even more specifically. I have heard GroenLinks' views in this Chamber about what should happen when the SGP itself had freedom of association, using certain views on women and how women could be politically active. GroenLinks took the lead in this House of Representatives by saying: we should not do this by way of emancipation, but by means of a ban. I don't understand the weighting right now. It seems random at GroenLinks. Explain it to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u77	It is the difference between individual freedoms and the freedoms of larger groups. We say that as a woman you must have the individual freedom to become a member of, for example, a political party. That is something that many people in my party are for and which I believe is in line with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mrs. Schouten, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u79	It's just spoken past. There is simply no concrete answer to the question why GroenLinks wants nothing but a ban at one point and does not want emancipation to do its job, while at the moment she wants emancipation to do her job. Ms Voortman appointed all the freedoms contained in the Constitution. Freedom of association is also included. I don't want to repeat this whole discussion, but this is arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u80	I note that GroenLinks, in the debate in this room that has unwound herself about the position of women within the SGP in an extremely active way, has in fact advocated coercion, so that the SGP should not be able to make its own choices, but should open its membership to women. I am glad that Mrs Voortman is now apparently returning at her pace, but it is too late: it is now all forced through legal procedures, rather than its natural process. At one point, I'm gonna hook up a little bit. The way in which Mrs Voortman suggests that SGP women did not make their own decision not to become members is far from my point of view. There was a small number who wanted to join, but from the human and social vision of the SGP, which operates much more from the common mind than from the individualistic thinking that Mrs Voortman is talking about, this is an understatement of the freedom of choice of the SGP women themselves. I would be pleased if Mrs Voortman could accept this correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u81	What matters in this particular case is that women who wish to become members of the SGP. We're not saying women should join. Women who want to join the SGP can join. They can't be banned. That's how it is with the burqa and the nikab. We say: you must not force people to wear a burka or nikab, but you must not ban them from the government either. That is what this bill does, at least as far as healthcare institutions, public transport and education are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u82	Then Mrs Schouten's question is extremely topical. Now Mrs Voortman is playing the card of emancipation. Apparently, that card could not be played, given the earlier remarks made by GroenLinks in debates here in the Chamber, when it was about the position of women in relation to the SGP. Why this cover? Doesn't this just reek of randomness?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u83	I really don't see it that way. We say that anyone who wants to join the SGP must be able to become a member of the SGP, man or woman. You have to have that individual choice. This debate is also about an individual choice. So I don't see the discrepancy. In fact, I think that is very much in line with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u84	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u85	While a large majority of an association itself, democratically, comes to a certain vision of people and society, in which women can participate fully, only certain accents are laid here in this Chamber, with the support of GroenLinks, massively enforced that this should not be allowed. That can't be true, can it? That was a democratic process, wasn't it? In this case, a party must be forced to adapt its vision. That kind of compulsion is weird, right? Isn't that contrary to any form of basic freedom? However, I believe that we should not talk about the position of the SGP women anymore, but about the ban on facial clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u86	In conclusion, I would like to say that it is precisely the individual freedom to choose whether or not to join the SGP. It's weird that as a party you say: we choose not to let certain people in. If it were a different group, we would say that we do not think that is acceptable. In my view, that is what this is about, the individual choice to say: I am becoming a member of a particular party or not. I want to wear a burka or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u87	Finally. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u88	Finally, with this reasoning, a fervent opponent of the hunt should simply be able to become a member of a hunter's club. I really do not understand this argument, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u89	That is indeed the difference between Mr Bishop and me. Four times earlier a bill was written to ban all or part of the burka, and four times that proposal did not reach the plenary. It was a law of Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders, a law of then MP Kamp and two government proposals. Can the Minister share with us what in his view is the reason why these four legislative proposals are dusting on the shelf, as we speak? Is that perhaps because the Council of State found that there is no urgent social problem that is solved by it? I'd like a response. As a sole argument for the need for this bill, the Minister has been holding political and social debate on the burka for a long time. Does that mean that the cabinet will now submit a legislative proposal on all issues on which there is social or political debate for a long time? Can the Minister also comment on the comment made by the Council of State that governments, health care institutions and schools already have enough room to lay down clothing regulations and that the present bill, which the government wants to do again, is therefore not necessary? In the past, the education boards indicated that they did not consider a legal ban on facial clothing in education to be necessary. Then why is there such a ban now? Why is there a ban on facial clothing, whereas the medical organisation KNMG calls such a ban undesirable and unnecessary? If the people who might be affected by facial clothing don't experience it so much, why this proposal? With regard to GroenLinks, the fact that this law does not solve a demonstrable problem is not even the main point of criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u90	The position of GroenLinks is not clear to me yet. Does GroenLinks now say to the Council of State that there are already local, local bans and that this proposal is therefore superfluous? Or does GroenLinks say that we want to get rid of the already existing bans, because we do not want a ban at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u91	Our main objection is that you shouldn't go public and decide what someone wears or doesn't wear. A woman should be able to decide whether she wants to wear a burqa, a nikab or a miniskirt. Then there may be situations, for example, the conversation between caregiver and patient, in which it is useful that you are identifiable. It will then be possible for the institution concerned to draw up its own rules on how it intends to ensure this. Now the educational institutions and the health institutions say that we do not need a government ban. We have just had a debate on this, and it did not seem to be quite clear at the time, but it is this government ban that is so bumping into our minds. In the past, the Labour Party also had a hard time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u92	It's a little blurry because you say that the woman has to decide for herself, but later on you say that public institutions and hospitals are allowed to determine it in their rules. If I sum up the most important argument, you actually agree with the Council of State, which says: you can determine it in hospitals and schools, but you should not make it law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u93	In situations where there's obstruction, you can see how you can make rules to lift that obstruction. That's what's happening now, so there's no need for the law. Secondly, we have a problem, and I say it again with the government's determination to what women are allowed to wear or not to wear in this case. For GroenLinks, the fact that this bill does not solve a demonstrable problem is not even the main point of criticism. As far as we are concerned, this bill goes directly against our liberal western values. One of these values is that we do not discriminate in a free country. The law proposes to cover all facial clothing, but then excludes all kinds of variants of facial clothing. If facial clothing is necessary for the practice of a profession or sport, or a festive or cultural activity, the law suddenly does not apply. If the purpose of the law is to combat communication problems through face-covering clothing, why is this exception made? Is it just about the burka and the nikab and is he just doing what suits him? What, according to the Minister, is covered by a festive or cultural activity? Can a burqa or a nikab be worn during the Ramadan? I'd like a more detailed explanation. The Minister states that the enforcement of this ban is included in the regular police work. That surprises me somewhat. The prohibition applies to public buildings, health care institutions and schools. Luckily, those aren't places you run into a lot of cops. GroenLinks is therefore also a little concerned about what the Minister means by this. Is the police going to carry out any active checks in these places? There is no prohibition of a school or care institution. That doesn't apply until inside the building. If then people who work in those buildings do not want to implement that ban, what will happen? Are we gonna put the police in those buildings or are we gonna tell them it doesn't matter? If the latter is the case, we also say that this law is a dead letter. In view of the 2009 study, how useful does it seem to the Minister that only 100 to 500 women in the Netherlands wear a burka or a nikab? Is the police getting extra capacity? I would also like to comment on this. It seems to me that, in the run-up to the elections, we are talking today about a pointless and discriminatory bill. We're talking about the back of the women who's talking to the voter. That is not only uncomfortable, but also incorrect. GroenLinks will therefore vote against this bill, in full conviction that a plea for freedom is not without obligation. Freedom is also the freedom of those we disagree with or whose values we do not share. A woman isn't really free until she can choose for herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u94	I don't know what happened to GroenLinks. It was Tofik Dibi who said in 2009 that he found burka's running prisons. Apart from that, you have placed an interruption in my speech in which you said that someone who wears a nikab can lift it up at customs. Perhaps that has also happened to the people with a nikab who are now sitting in the public gallery. However, we do not know who is sitting there now, whether men or women. Don't you feel uncomfortable about that, Mrs. Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u95	No. I'm sure that's what happened in security, so these people have been identified. Yes, of course, I trust the security of the Chamber in that, too. I would also like to say, as I have already done in my contribution, that GroenLinks also has difficulty with garments such as the burka or the nikab. It is indeed a garment that creates distance. GroenLinks doesn't like that either. The question, however, is whether this will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u96	You narrow down the weather to only identification in the context of security. When I have debates here, I usually look at the public gallery first when I sit down. I'll see who's in there. I can't see who's in there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr. Chairman. This is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u98	No, Mrs. Koşer Kaya. Mr Azmani has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u99	Once again, Mrs Voortman, I ask you whether this does not make you uncomfortable. Wouldn't you rather see, based on the face, who's sitting there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u100	I really wouldn't argue here about people sitting in the public gallery. I imagine people have questions about that, but people in the public gallery cannot participate in this debate. It's a little tricky, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u101	We also have rules of conduct on wearing hats or sunglasses in the public gallery. I'm not specifically concerned about who's sitting there right now. I am concerned about the issue that we are now faced with again. My question is whether that doesn't make you uncomfortable. If I can take Mrs. Voortman's words, that doesn't make her uncomfortable. Makes me feel uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u102	I have already said that GroenLinks would rather not have women wearing burqas or nikabs. You can't see who's in there right now. I know they've been identified. I'm relying on the security of the Chamber and I'm assuming it's safe. However, I prefer that women do not choose this. What is right above water for us, however, is the choice of people. They have to be able to choose what they want to wear, whether it's a burqa, a nikab, an integral helmet or a miniskirt. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr. Chairman. For many years now we have had a ban on wearing too little clothing in the Netherlands. I am thinking of bans on nudist recreation and on sacrilege of honor. According to the SGP, this is a sensible matter. Individual freedom does not extend so far that everything must be possible. A ban on too much clothing, if I may say so, is new for the Netherlands. But the theme itself is not. Walking around the street with a ski mask on, or in a burqa, is just allowed. For many years we have been talking about banning ski masks, burqas and integral helmets. The proposal we are discussing today is a follow-up to a longer-term discussion on whether we would like to have such clothing in the public domain. You can argue all kinds of ethical, aesthetic and emancipatory arguments. That has just happened a bit in interruptions. But for the SGP, it is particularly important that it serves common security. The wearing of face-covering clothing at least hinders the experience of that safety and for open communication. That too has been shared during this debate. Therefore, according to the SGP, it is logical to ban ski masks and burkas. The government has chosen not to propose an overall ban. Such a general ban applies in Belgium and France. We would like to hear from the Minister again exactly the arguments for that choice. Why wasn't that chosen? Such a general ban is far more far-reaching. There is no doubt that there are certain considerations on the basis of which not to choose. We would like to share these considerations again, including in this public debate. An important question is how this bill relates to fundamental rights. It is important to look in particular at the 2014 ruling of the European Court of Justice. It allows the State a wide margin of discretion. According to the European Court, the French general prohibition was within the limits of Articles 8, 9 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It is crucial that the restrictions apply to everyone, i.e. to people with ski masks, to people in a burqa and to people with an integral helmet. It is also important that the ban does not go beyond what is necessary, i.e. that it is proportionate. That is why we would like to hear from the Minister to what extent the same objective can also be adequately achieved by the organisations' own arrangements. That possibility remains. The Council of State has also pointed this out. However, the government does not consider this to be sufficient. We would like to be told again why supplementary legislation is desirable. We do have the impression that it is often difficult for organisations to lay down rules themselves. This is always the subject of discussion. So you could also see this legislation as an aid to all kinds of institutions that want to lay down rules in this area. In addition, we run the risk of over-infringing citizens' freedoms if all kinds of institutional rules are created. Our assessment is that this bill can fully pass the test of Article 9 ECHR, especially in the light of far-reaching French regulations. What about municipal autonomy? How far does it go? That question is also explicitly addressed in this legislative proposal. Let me give you a concrete example. The General Local Decree of the Municipality of Leeuwarden states the following. "It is forbidden to be disguised, masked or otherwise rendered unrecognizable in a public place for the purpose of disturbing public order." In other municipalities there are also regulations with similar provisions. These regulations therefore prohibit the wearing of disguises on the streets. Are such provisions in the APV still possible if this bill becomes law? I'd like to explain this question a little bit. The legal prohibition seems to be intended as an exhaustive regime for the places which are subject to a ban on facial clothing. The SGP believes that municipalities should and should remain free to prohibit the wearing of ski masks or burkas in parts of the public space, for example in relation to the maintenance of public order in events or in areas at risk. We have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure this freedom of municipalities. That amendment is actually intended as support, as a further clarification of the present proposal. I would like to dwell briefly on the text and the explanatory statement. The aim of this proposal is to introduce a legal ban on facial clothing for public transport, educational institutions, health institutions and public institutions. In this way there will be uniform legislation rather than standards that each institution can set itself. The text of the legislative proposal and its explanatory statement raises a number of questions. There is no way of defining exactly how far the legal prohibitions extend. The government refers to the daily use of speech for this purpose, but this may lead to the necessary discussion. That is why we have some additional questions in a number of sectors. First of all, public transport. It is precisely for the experience of security and open communication that a station hall is perhaps just as important as public transport itself. Why has the government not extended the ban to the halls of train and metro stations and the associated platforms? The SGP has the impression that this point needs to be aligned with, for example, health and education institutions, for which such a further indication has been included. We have therefore tabled an amendment banning the wearing of facial clothing for platforms and buildings. We would like to hear the Minister's response to the amendment to further dress the bill. I'll continue with the education. Fortunately, our country has a wide variety of types of schools: public schools, special schools, funded education, unpaid education. The SGP asks the Government whether it is intended to apply this scheme to all these schools in full, free of charge, funded, public, and special provisions. This section also raises the question of how to rent school buildings. In response to our questions, it says that it is possible for extracurricular activities to be excluded from the scope of the prohibition, unless they involve activities which in any way have a relationship with education. That raises questions. Does this mean that the legal prohibition does apply if, for example, a national umbrella of schools meets in an area of a school, but that the legal prohibition does not apply as a social institution from outside the education sector renting a space in that school? If the latter is indeed intended, it raises the question as to why nothing is found in the text of the legislative proposal. The next area concerns government buildings. For the buildings owned by the government, it is well regulated in this bill, but the answer to our question about polling stations and other buildings not owned by the government does raise questions. If a polling station is located in a private building or in a church building that also happens occasionally, the Minister states in the answers that the prohibition also extends to such buildings that are in use by the government. Again, the text of the bill does not show any of this. Why is it not expressly stated that the ban also applies if buildings have been temporarily put into service by the government? Finally, I come to enforcement. Legal provisions must also be maintained; they do not happen on their own. But in the answers to questions from the Court, the government states that institutions in themselves do not have to maintain the legal prohibition themselves. This means, for example, that care or education institutions which do not find the legal ban to be successful can decide to accept the presence of people wearing a burqa or ski mask. Is that what the government is trying to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. The government does not give clothing advice and the government does not in principle decide whether or not to wear certain clothing. However, in practice, demands are often made in education, care or public transport, at a time when clothing covers the whole face and literally removes people from sight by an integral helmet, a balaclava or a face veil. You can't teach a student whose face you can't see. How do you know about a student on an integral helmet exam that it's the right person? In the care, there must be facial contact in order to be able to diagnose the patient. A ski mask at the dentist's isn't a job. In public transport, the driver or the inspector must really know who they are dealing with, also to check your photo. But these examples also show that the discussion on the problem of face-covering clothing in public space is rather theoretical. There is not often a student with a helmet in the classroom or with a ski mask at the dentist. The number of burkas in public transport, for example, is also very small. And yet the phenomenon of the burqa is certainly a cause for this bill. About 100, maybe 200 people regularly walk in these clothes. That makes the problem small, but I think the discussion is justified. Living with people starts to look into each other's eyes. We shouldn't lose sight of each other. The Minister has chosen a practical solution to a practical problem: wearing face-covering clothing is not prohibited except where necessary for the functioning of public services. This is also in line with existing practices, as I mentioned in education, care and public transport, where organisations generally already have home rules themselves. According to the Minister, the added value of this law is that it sets a clear framework, but at the same time the law regulates that schools, caregivers and transport companies are also allowed to derogate from this legal ban. What exactly is the point of this in practice? Special attention needs to be paid to the ban on wearing a burqa, as this may affect freedom of religion. Here, a balance must be made between the right of people to live as much as possible in accordance with their own religious beliefs and the need for every citizen in society to express themselves, to make a life together possible. The Minister therefore does not opt for a burqa ban, but for a ban on the wearing of burqa at the time when this prevents a public service. However, this may be a profound intervention for individual citizens in their lives, at a time when, as a result of this ban, they decide not to attend education or no longer want to receive care. They can also avoid contact with the government. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he has involved these considerations in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. The first disputes about Islamic women's textiles in the Netherlands date back to 1985. In that year, Minister Deetman, of the Christian Democratic Appèl, gave the local alderman a big blow because he had pleased the alderman to refuse Moroccan parents a favor. This favor, which was "asked" under the guidance of a professional muslim, concerned gender equality, absence of lessons and wearing Islamic textiles at school. The Labour Chamber member Van Ooijen's Party, known in this house as the Red Father, had a discussion with this business representative, who was supported on the spot by 50 other professional Muslims from all over the Netherlands, who, of course, worked hard at that time in the Netherlands to establish an Islamic infrastructure. If there was a level playing field in this conversation, I ask the Minister. What's his opinion on that? The municipality of Alphen came to the shortest end, you will understand. So a great success for Islam. The first real demands ever made in the Netherlands were met and that, of course, gives self-confidence. Islamic textiles wear much more comfortable when the minister and the PvdA and also D66 and GroenLinks are behind you. I will not repeat all of history, but in short, Islamic self-confidence has not diminished since then, not here and not in the Middle East. Under the leadership of the Muslim Brotherhood, Islamic women's textiles took an increasingly prominent place in the squares, the markets and the streets of Cairo, Damascus and also The Hague. Add the mass immigration and we are talking about a schism in cultural, religious and in this case also ideological. Of course, we have to do something with that. Many people are talking about integration, but that has not worked so far, despite the huge cost to taxpayers. Somehow that doesn't want to integrate. It's weird for the idealists, and they're not gonna find out, but they're gonna make a lot of sense for realists. But this is a cost for another debate. The burqa and the nikab, where only the eyes of the woman are visible or nothing of her face, are almost impossible to think away. At least that was what many politically correct people thought, and the Islamic people who were politically correct were able to work for her cart. By the way, we knew there was a woman underneath that Islamic textile. We should assume that, but it might as well be a well-trained polder-jihadi who just completed his education in Raqqa. But that is a bit scary, so let's not dwell on that too often and for too long. Finally, there is still work to be done to pay for mass immigration. Those who still have time, also have the right to recuperate and recreate from time to time. Apart from the fact that, according to Western standards, packing a woman does not contribute to an equal role pattern, something feminists used to want to fight for is often a reason to feel uncomfortable. And anyone who doesn't feel senang behaves differently. It's in human nature. People tend to behave a little more than that. Look around you. Imagine: your street, your neighborhood or your city doesn't feel like it anymore. Where people let their behavior be influenced by, for example, the Islamic uniform clothing style, Sharia has already gained some influence. Think of the Islamic neighborhood fathers sponsored by various municipalities, who are often dressed in uniform men's dresses and often also a big beard. They then appeal to people to the fact that they behave wrongly or dress wrongly or that they listen to music that is not allowed. Thus, the enforcement of our own laws in such a street, neighbourhood or neighborhood has become a bit out of sight. I'm expressing myself a little euphemistically, but of course you have to be careful what you say about Islam these days. Now I hope that the viewers of this debate are still powerful in the style of irony in this age of suffocating political correctness. The process of Islamisation that I have just described was a reason for my group chairman, Mr Wilders, to table a motion in 2005 with the aim of achieving a burka ban. Actually, that's ironic; he's just saying his last words in court and here some people are just about defending Islamization. But that aside. Despite the fact that there was enough support to get the motion adopted, the ban has not been introduced so far. Minister Verdonk did not carry out the motion, the compromise we achieved in Rutte I with our support was not a priority for the then ministers, then there was a breach of the cabinet, and in Rutte II the present compromise was reached. We can say the beginning is there. A small beginning, a somewhat shaky compromise, but what started with the Wilders Group in 2005 led to this in any case. Does anyone else want to say that the PVV has no influence? The Freedom Party will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr. Chairman. Let us clarify what we are talking about today. This law provides for a partial ban on facial clothing and provides uniform, national rules; that is good. For a doctor, teacher or conductor it is impossible to serve a patient, a parent or a traveller well and to ensure his safety if he is unrecognizable. Bus companies, schools and healthcare institutions can use the law as a back-up to their home rules. And although it does not occur very often, the debate is very topical. Where are we in the Netherlands? With this limited ban, we answer that question and therefore define where there is room for wearing such clothing. At the same time, we say where we can't. The Labour Party believes that a multiform country like the Netherlands can only function well if everyone participates and shares the basic principles of our society. This does not include the fact that citizens hide their faces. However, a free society also requires that we do not prohibit more than is necessary. A general ban on wearing face-covering clothing would therefore pass its purpose. It is therefore a good thing that the legislative proposal before us is based on a limited ban, namely only in public transport, in education, in health care and in public buildings. These are the places where public services are provided, where people are in contact with each other, and where they cannot avoid that contact, other than in public space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u107	I have a few quotes: "We are still not for that," Diederik Samsom said in 2013. "Why is it always the Hague symbol law?', MP Jeroen Dijsselbloem wondered. "We cannot fit social reality into a mold." Or: "The largest opposition party, the PvdA, speaks of a historical mistake." The report states: "A sustainable solution should not be sought in a ban but in a cultural change to be achieved." Or: "The members of the PvdA Group are not convinced of the arguments put forward by the applicants and cannot, on that basis, accept...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u108	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u109	... that a safety risk justifies the prohibition of a specific face-covering clothing." What has happened in the meantime that the PvdA is now very happy with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u110	I don't understand the quotes. It is quoted from reactions to the general ban. In my view, Mrs Koşer Kaya has heard me say very emphatically that we are against a burqa ban, against a total ban. We are also critical, as Mrs Koşer Kaya has heard. Does this law do what he has to do? Is he enforceable? I will also put these and all the other questions in my speech later. However, it does not go far enough to say that you were always against this proposal and now you are suddenly in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u111	I have quoted explicitly from the written questions raised in connection with the legislative proposal. Here too, the PvdA remains with the fundamental question I have just raised. Security is not the issue and emancipation is not the issue. What changed at the PvdA today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u112	The piece quoted at that point is almost literally back in my speech. I'll read it to you in a minute. There hasn't been any change in the point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u113	But you're going to support the bill. That's what I'm listening to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u114	That still depends a little on the answers, but we certainly have a positive basic attitude. And, again, I just don't get your quotes. The fact that you're critical, that you're asking critical questions and that you're also recognizing a dilemma doesn't always mean that you have to be against a bill? In fact, it's in the coalition agreement. It's been clear for four years that we're gonna take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u115	Then I will come forward in the second term, because I suspect that whatever answers the Minister will give, the PvdA Group has already decided to vote in favour of the bill. I find that extremely regrettable. In doing so, she also crosses the principles of the freedom of individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u116	We have a positive basic position. Like every group, we discussed the legislative proposal in the group. It is clear that we support this bill in principle. We do have questions. We'll be asking critical questions in a minute. But I think it's a little weak to tie that to all kinds of bullshit symbols and arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Recourt just asked: does this law do what he has to do? I hope he's also thinking about what this law can do about what you don't want. Catholic and Protestant education, for example, indicate that communication with parents with facial clothing is becoming more difficult, that there is a greater distance, that parents will no longer show up at school. I would like to hear how the Labour Party responds to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u118	My questions mainly relate to this kind of concern in the care sector. I'll ask those questions in a minute. Avoiding care cannot be a consequence of this law. That would be very undesirable. I find this a little more difficult for education, especially since a lot of educational institutions already have a local ban, which works fine. I do not have so many signals from education that there are major problems in that regard. Now that this law takes the local bans to a national level, I don't expect much change in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u119	Then I wonder why this is in here. I assume it stands for those schools that say: we do not want such a ban, we choose how we deal with such situations. Then my question is: how does Mr Recourt respond to schools that do not want this legal ban imposed by the government because they fear that it will make communication with parents more difficult, because it increases distance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u120	I think it is right to present to the Minister how this is dealt with in specific cases and to ask him if a practical solution can be found in the event that a school is no longer able to communicate with parents. The latter seems to me to be a problem too. However, we support the standard, including for schools which do not have such regulations at the moment. When a teacher and parents talk to each other, they have to be able to look each other in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u121	This means that the Labour Party not only wants to impose on women what they may or may not wear, but also that schools should no longer know for themselves how they do it. I find that interesting. As far as concerns are concerned, I have tabled an amendment. I hope the Labour Party will support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u122	We shall look at that amendment. But I have my own questions on behalf of my group. If the answer is correct, I will no longer have to support an amendment, because then it is settled. A ban also affects women who wear a burqa or a nikab. This is acceptable to the PvdA when it comes to public services and security, but beyond that the PvdA will not go, because this would restrict people's freedom without good grounds. A total ban does not solve the underlying problem of women who voluntarily or otherwise withdraw from public space and go across the street unrecognizable. The Labour Party chooses not the way of a ban in this area, but the way of emancipation; Mrs Koşer Kaya is now gone, but she asked for it. For this we must convince women who voluntarily wear a burqa, often converts, of the value of interhuman contact. And for that, we must fight against the oppression of women who are forced to cover their faces. Since this law is not about that, I ask the Minister how the cabinet does deal with this underlying problem. Rights are never absolute. They need to be weighed when they clash with the rights or interests of others. That seems to be the case with this law. A good balance has been found. Where there is no choice, as with institutions in which people reside permanently, the freedom of, among other things, faith has been chosen. And where there is a choice and where public services and safety are at stake, a ban has been chosen. The Labour Party still has a concern, which I would like to express and which I would like to see removed in this debate: how does the ban work in health care? The ban extends in health care to the entire building in which the care is provided, including the waiting room and the treatment room. This follows from the provisions of this law. We also read it in the answers. However, it must be clear that the doctor always has the last word. If there is a conflict between the doctor's duty of care and the enforcement of the law, that duty of care must prevail. This requires practical action, for example by not putting someone with facial clothing in the waiting room with other patients. Care-avoiding behavior as a result of this law is very undesirable. Can the Minister therefore confirm the following three cases? One. The doctor does not have to act contrary to his oath and has the last word in questions about care. Two. Practical solutions remain possible. Three. It's being monitored to see if the law doesn't cause any care avoidance. I still have a few practical questions. What about enforcement? I have read well that enforcement should not be allowed, but that this law makes it possible, above all, to take enforcement action if there is a problem. We have read what the maximum fine is: €405 but what will the fine become in practice in the event of a first offense? I will conclude with an additional remark, which is not in my prepared text. I was thinking that, frankly, I do not think the comments on integral helmets are very credible either. I do know another example, which I find credible and which also concerns safety, but not about a burka or nikab. There are more and more cameras in public transport nowadays. People sometimes pull their hood over their heads and their scarf up so that only their eyes are visible because they don't want to be recognized on those cameras. That is a real problem. I assume that this law also applies to this and so you cannot hide behind hats, hoods and scarfs in public transport. Is that right? Finally. I am not very concerned about the practice. Practice already has sector-specific bans, which are maintained in a workable way, in schools, in hospitals and so on. This law harmonises those standards, makes them nationwide and draws a clear line. That means that in principle we cannot support this law, Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u123	I am here, and I have listened extensively to Mr Recourt's speech. I would like to look at some of the laws that we have adopted in recent times, such as removing the priority provision for residences for status holders and extending the naturalisation period from five to seven years. And now there's this bill. These are all proposals that will increase the distance between people with different ideas, people with different origins. What does the Labour Party intend to achieve with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u124	I think this is a false representation of things. This bill should reduce the distance. We believe that people in Dutch society should be able to look at each other in principle and communicate with each other. A very small group of moslims doesn't match that. If Mrs Voortman says that we are increasing the distance between Muslims and non-Muslims in the Netherlands, that is really bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u125	You're hindering someone's choice. It chooses to wear a burqa or a nikab. For example, it could cause these people to stop going to the parent's evening or to think a little more before going to the general practitioner. That's exactly our concern. Our concern is that people might just lock themselves up and turn away from society. That is exactly what the other legislative proposals I have mentioned are doing. What does the Labour Party think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u126	Again, it's a very small group. The aim is precisely the opposite, namely to enable communication. I therefore expect this law to have the effect that communication can take place face to face, whether or not in an environment where, for example, there are no men or a safe environment. But I have also expressed the concern that this leads to a lack of care. As far as education is concerned, I have already said that Mrs Voortman is right. I also put this as a question to the Minister. In that sense, we share the concern. But I think this law achieves exactly the opposite of what GroenLinks is now suggesting. I believe that the law will bring people closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the admissibility of wearing facial covering has been a subject of political and social discussions for many, many years. More than ten years ago, even one of my first debates was on this subject. That's how long we've been talking about this. I will not say out loud what the Minister has just said, because I am sure he is going to say it properly. Having heard the whole discussion today, I think that our position will be known in the meantime. We believe that open communication between citizens is one of the ways in which people interact in the Netherlands. That's why we're having such a hard time with facial cover. That has always been our line, and that is also our line today. The CDA Group therefore supports the proposal now before us. This bill states that facial cover is no longer allowed in a number of places, namely in education, in public transport, in public buildings and in care. It is precisely in these places that visual contact is of the utmost importance. It is precisely here that the open communication in our society, which is so much appreciated, is not made difficult by facial cover. Of course, there is a de facto restriction on the freedom of religion. Several spokesmen have already said this. Also, the freedom to dress as you wish is somewhat restricted. We have been debating this for a very long time. How far should that go? You're actually peeling this off. At first, the CDA has always said: you should not want this at all, because that is not how we in our country deal with each other. But then you end up in all that tension. How far do you have to go? Some countries do and others do not. Then you're going to look very closely at where the problems are greatest. Finally, after ten years of debate, where should the problems be resolved seriously? And then you get to those four fields. Then you come to the field of education, where you want to create a pedagogical environment together. That's not really possible, if either a teacher or a student is hiding behind dust. It is also the case in public transport that this reduces other people's feelings of safety. You can't talk about a disease or a condition as a doctor or patient if you don't even see how the message comes across. How can you talk about a passport or a child's birth certificate as an official at a window if you don't even see who you're talking to? So we have a huge aversion against the fact that people don't show up, but at some point you have to think: let's take a step now and actually settle it for the most pressing areas. These are the four areas for which the Minister has made the proposal. My group has just a few more questions about enforcement. They're gonna be elected for criminal sanctions. I understand that, but when I read the explanatory statement, I think that the professional gets over pretty quickly. I think it is a good idea today in the Chamber to state very clearly that professionals can set their own limits for what we want in our society. They can say that we do not deal with each other in this way. Someone at the front desk can say, "I'm not doing this service right now." A school can say that we do not deal with our staff and students in this way. In relation to schools, I do ask the Minister: what role will the inspection have in this? A child who does not go to school anymore or parents who do not care about school anymore is another aspect that we should be paying attention to. We've had a very nasty situation with an Arriva driver. It is important that we stand alongside these people who say: we have agreed that we do not deal with each other and that you do not get on the bus, so you do not get on the bus. This is a first frontier, which is set for the people who uphold our laws for us. I therefore think that in the explanatory statement the fine has gone a little too quickly. As a Chamber today, I would like to say that we stand alongside the professionals, who are commissioned by us to uphold our norms and values and to uphold them as individuals. I come to another point because the SGP has tabled an amendment that struck me a little bit. I was under the impression that what the Mayor of The Hague did last week, namely to ban a demonstration in which people covered their faces, could actually already be done. So I wonder if the amendment is necessary. I analyzed that case. Here's what I noticed. The police had been ordered to perform. They were only allowed to be demonstrated with an uncovered face, but then left extremists came of course with facial cover. It looks like the police had to remind people up to four times to make sure their face was visible. They refused. In the end, the police could only end the demonstration; only then did they intervene. Is it true that the police can do that right now? When it is indicated that it should not be demonstrated with facial cover, should the police first dismantle the whole situation? After all, this may be much more disastrous in the event of a demonstration. Or may we say to someone: you are violating the rule we have established with each other and are fined. I'd like to know about the Minister. Are the limits set in this way? I think we can enforce this law. This law responds to a need. Many may have the need to move forward, but you might wonder if we should have another ten years of discussion for that. Although I still very much like coming back to the Chamber, it seems nice to be able to close this debate just before the next period after three deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u128	I give the floor to Mr Kuzu. I have seen that he has requested 30 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u129	And it's a question of whether I'm gonna be okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u130	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the partial ban on facial clothing. Soon I will come back to the women who will be affected by this ban and to their objections, because we should listen to them more. I want to start with William of Orange, Father of the Fatherland. At the building of the Council of the State there is on the street side a portrait gallery of all constitutional princes, starting with William of Orange and ending with Princess Beatrix and King Willem-Alexander. On 31 December 1564 William van Oranje gave an important speech in the Council of State on freedom of conscience and religion. What he said in it is literally behind his portrait in the Council of State: "Nevertheless, the Dutch can't approve that princes want to rule the souls of their people and take away their freedom of faith and religion." We fully agree with that. Face-covering clothing is not new in the Netherlands. This is how we know the cover: a long silk or fabric hood without sleeves. It first arrived in the Netherlands in the fourteenth century, blown over from Andalusia. Noble European ladies wore the hatch. It remained in use until 1930 in the municipality of Wieringen. It is clear that we are against banning all or part of facial clothing. It is a very far-reaching bill that restricts the freedom of religion. It is therefore against the Constitution. The Council of State is against it. Amnesty International is against it. The Human Rights College is against it. All human rights organisations are lining up to condemn it. If there's so much criticism of the bill, why does the government want to implement it anyway? What are the concrete problems that are being solved? I say it very firmly: there are no such problems. The government turns a fictitious mosquito into a real elephant, because it is a tiny group of 400 women. Research by Annelies Moors shows that they almost always wear their facial clothing of their own will and are not forced to do so by their partner. I say it very firmly: if there is compulsion, then we must do something about it. In fact, the partner often disagrees. Annelies Moors says: at least they are not pathetic, oppressed women who have been taken from abroad. You also have to stand firmly in your shoes to go down the street with a veil. You're already getting so much over you. Today, that happened with the security of the House of Representatives. The women sitting in the public gallery today came in with a lot of pain and trouble. This small group of about 400 women doesn't cause any trouble. The government itself states that there have been no incidents in recent years. Why, then, does the government state in the explanatory statement that face-covering clothing ensures that the quality of service cannot be adequately guaranteed in health care, in public transport, in education and in public institutions? What is that supposed to mean in concrete terms? What are the specific problems in the care sector? Do people with facial clothing die because they cannot be helped well? Are there any misdiagnoses? I'd like an answer from the Minister. What are the consequences? Will we solve the health problems if we send these people away? Are we gonna let them die instead of helping them? The minister says your burka or your health. What are the specific problems in education? Do people with facial-covering clothes do their homework less well than people without facial-covering clothes? Do people with facial-covering clothing achieve lower grades than people without facial-covering clothing? Do they get their degrees less often? I'd like an answer from the Minister. What are the consequences? Do they learn more when you leave them at home? The minister says your burka or your diploma. What are the concrete problems in public transport? Do people with facial-covering clothing refuse to show their transport tickets more often than people without facial-covering clothing? Do people with facial-covering clothes beat up conductors more often than people without facial-covering clothes? I'd like an answer from the Minister. What are the consequences? That these people can't visit their family and friends anymore. What are the concrete problems in public institutions? Do people with facial-covering clothing behave less correctly than people without facial-covering clothing? Do people with facial-covering clothing pay less taxes than people without facial-covering clothing? I'd like an answer from the Minister. So there is a non-existent problem in a tiny group of about 400 women. This is a clear pestilence measure. This is clearly symbolic politics. It is one of the most important principles of our Constitution. We have said it many times: parties take over the ideas of Geert Wilders. They move to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right. Also this burqa ban comes from the case of Wilders. It began in 2005 as a motion supported by the VVD and the CDA. Later, the CDA re-entered into the tolerance agreement that it concluded with the PVV and the VVD in 2010. And now the PvdA also moves a little towards Geert Wilders. A little bit? Quite a step! All these parties are actually denying their basic principles. Surely the VVD should stand for liberalism, for freedom and for life and let live? How can you restrict the freedom of religion? Recently, we had a debate on organ donation. The VVD constantly talked about the right of self-determination and that was a fundamental point for the VVD. But isn't the right to self-determination for women wearing facial clothing suddenly? Is the VVD selective shopping in its own basic principles? UN top man Ban Ki-moon talked about an atmosphere of xenophobic nationalism when visiting the Netherlands. That's supposed to make parties in this Chamber think about it, isn't it? Aren't they hitting the wrong path? Aren't they descending into a primitive form of enemy thinking and fear politics? One of Amnesty International's fundamental objections to the ban on burqa also affects this xenophobic nationalism. I quote: 'A possible explanation for the popularity of the burka ban is that face veils would be strange to European values and culture. International human rights conventions are clear on this point. The disapproval or discomfort of a few or even the vast majority can never constitute an legitimacy for restricting the right to freedom of expression or religion of another person. When the exercise of a human right by a minority is subordinated to the opinion of the vast majority, that right is to exist. A right thus becomes a privilege the exercise of which is subject to the approval or goodwill of a majority. The eagerness to ban burkas in several European countries is perhaps an indication of a change in human rights attitude." I would also like to point out the danger of a sliding scale. It starts with a partial burqa ban, but how does it go? I refer to Yassin Elforkani, popular in circles around the PvdA. He says: "In neighbouring countries you first see a burqa ban, then headscarves are no longer allowed and then nothing is allowed at all. That religious freedom must be guarded." As announced, I now come to the voice of the people themselves, the people who are affected by the burqa ban. There's too much talk about them instead of them. My question to the Minister is this: has he actually reached out to these interest groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u132	Yes, I did!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u133	Good. I'd like to hear what came out of that, because I don't see much of it. We at DENK would like to draw attention to the concerns of these people. First of all the petition: over 9,000 signatures are collected for the action We are against the decision: Partial ban burka and nikab. How does the Minister feel about that? In addition, there's a working group. Stay away from my niqaab. They have drawn up a detailed and fervent plea for the repeal of the legislative proposal. I would like to quote that and from the Minister I would like to give a serious and comprehensive response to their objections. This is the group affected by this bill in their daily lives. Those people deserve an extremely careful answer. I quote: "As Dutch, female, face-covering citizens, our representatives, our allies and all other disadvantaged people through the bill for a limited ban on facial clothing, we believe that the government of the Netherlands is inadequate in guaranteeing the rights of its citizens and complying with its obligations. Since 2005, the second chamber has tried to ban face-covering clothing, in particular the so-called "boerka'. The bill submitted on 22 May 2015 which received a majority of the votes from the second chamber is characterised by symbolic politics and does not go far. We are increasingly dissatisfied and disappointed with the way in which the government handles the rights of its citizens who choose to dress as they wish and like it. For this reason, we felt that it was necessary to send out a clear signal on this issue, which we are doing in the form of a letter of fire. Below we will explain the origin of this signal on the basis of a number of points which illustrate this deficiency. We will, of course, also take into account the consequences for Dutch society." Good Dutch! Point one. "Adopting this law and actually penalising citizens, because they want to dress differently in government institutions, education, care and public transport, is a real low point in the Dutch history of freedom of expression. The freedom of expression for which the Netherlands is so famous! A history that is characterised by the struggle it has had to make to give its citizens the freedom it knows today. The freedom to be who you want to be and to dress as you wish to dress. The Netherlands itself is very critical of the countries where they do not enjoy these freedoms and governments that oppress their citizens by imposing what is and is not to be said carry and so on. Even Amnesty is surprised at this motivation. According to Amnesty, such a ban is contrary to the right to freedom of expression and religion. The organisation believes that women who choose to wear a burka or niqab have the right to express their identity, opinion or belief. Abdelkarim el-Fassi journalist and documentary maker has put this well: "We, so-called 'enlightened Europeans', should proclaim to the defenders of the liberal rule of law that citizens should be allowed to wear what they want to wear and be who they want to be. In that state of law, we must respect minorities who hold another way of life, whether skinheads, gabbers, rastafaris, gothic's, hippies, Niqaabis or fervent starter rack fans: The right to express your identity is a product of freedom that we must apply unequivocally and consistently." It is above all a threat to democracy and freedom of thought, which is an even higher good than freedom of speech. After all, many show by clothing who they are and what they think. One more pronounced than the other. A ban on this is a threat to the freedom of thought." Point two. "The Minister states that, among other things, to come forward with this bill in order to set a clear standard in society. The inversion of the Netherlands and the rise of feminism have contributed to our understanding of how a woman today should "hear" her profile. There are no universal and/or Dutch values that explain to us how the woman should dress in a certain spirit of time. And lucky for you! However, this ban has led to a dangerous trend to guarantee the "Dutch identity" legally and thus exclude citizens who do not comply with that description. In fact... to fine! Then there is the question: where will this lead in the future? The thought of a Dutch citizen who is no longer given the choice by her government in the harsh winter to get on a bus with a thick scarf wrapped around the face in combination with a woolen hat, reminds of a repressive government. This is the implementation of the law to ban all facial clothing. What exactly is the problem with this ban? The freedoms of religious minorities must be respected not only in the name of religion, but also for fear of government repression. Those who are truly liberal should be more concerned about this than the minimal group that wears the facial cover. The focus on the niqaab is disproportionate and it is more symbolic policy than a real social problem." Point three. "As an argument for this bill, security and public order are appointed. However, no link has been established between facial veils and threats to public order or security. There are no known cases in which children are taken from schoolyards by women wearing facial clothing, nor of cases in which they are robbed, etc. There are no statistics from which all these claims are made. However, the figures are numerous when it comes to the robberies that are carried out with a hoodie and/or cap. However, a hoodie and/or pet ban is not mentioned in the second chamber. Professor of Law at the University of Maastricht, Jan Smits, says about this argument: "The coming winter makes many go out with hats and scarfs. My hockey niece also covers her face during a competition and I sometimes see women with a face mask sitting on the terrace of a café next to a beauty salon. We don't see a safety problem in that. That makes a burqa ban inconsistent on the basis of this argument: whether the ban actually applies to all facial clothing (which is practically impossible) or whether it applies because someone is Muslim (which is so much contrary to fundamental rights that no one dares to imagine)." Professor Moors also mentions this argument in her report: "It is also the argument of public order and security that was included in the February 2007 coalition agreement as a legitimation for a possible general ban on facial clothing. However, the cabinet has then seen fit to impose such a general ban, because representatives of the police, customs and public transport have all indicated that the current legislation already provides them with sufficient means to maintain public order and that the facial veil cannot in itself be regarded as a security risk. The media repeatedly said that there are no problems in this area at Schiphol Airport, that the number of women who use public transport with a face veil is very small, that they do not cause any particular problems or pose a safety risk." It is therefore more like a hot and especially scary business where a number of parties in the second chamber eagerly use it in the struggle for their seats. And we're asking you as a government not to go along with this. Should this not lead to real fear, which is not based on facts, into a whole piece of legislation?" Point four. "The communication is another argument for this bill. In England, where there is no prohibition, women wearing facial-covering clothing are fully involved in society, without the so-called impediment to communication. Another example is a Dutch lecturer who has taught a course of journalism in San'aa, Yemen, where a large number of students wear a facial veil. However, he soon noticed that he was very capable of assessing their reactions, and that these women were no less active in the seminars (Volkskrant 23 January 2007) Also, the results of a study at the University of Amsterdam show that it is not so difficult to recognise feelings when a face veil is worn as long as the eyes are visible. (Volkskrant 15 February 2008). And from conversations with staff members at a university in the Netherlands who taught a group of students, two of whom wore a facial veil, there appeared to be no real problems related to the process of communicating themselves. In the decision of the Equal Treatment Committee (CGB) in 2000, non-verbal communication was considered sufficiently possible when someone wears a facial veil. And in practice, a heart surgeon, who has to perform an immensely difficult open heart surgery that requires very secure and precision work, wears a mouth cap. The communication in the operating room is only through speech and the eyes. Never has there been a complaint about a surgeon who should take off his mouth cap because communication might lead to unpleasant consequences for the patient. Are we not afraid that this surgeon is communicating with his colleague wrongly and has fatal consequences for the patient?! Again an argument that doesn't last." Point five. "Suppression, emancipation and integration. Professor Moors' research commissioned by the government clearly shows that especially highly-educated Muslims, often converted women or otherwise women of the 2nd and/or 3rd generation, who master the Dutch language and have developed themselves in many ways, wear the niqaab. Many of these women have their own income, either as an entrepreneur, homework or as a service to children or women. Add to that that most have had to fight with family and often also the husband to be able to wear this niqaab. The claim that these women are oppressed and forced to wear the niqaab is therefore not founded and contradicts the professor's conclusion in her report. In the general consultation in April 2008, cabinet ministers felt that a general ban was not a solution for emancipation; it could even lead to less freedom of movement for women. The logic of this reasoning remains unclear as to why this would not apply equally to a limited ban, excluding these women, for example, from education, public transport, etc. The only oppression these women experience is the oppression of their government which, with this bill, co-determines what they may or may not wear. The state should not act as a feminist. This ban therefore leads to a paradox: Liberal democracy, in the event of a partial ban on farming, suspends the individual freedom of the niqaabbbbbbbbbbb in order not to disturb its freedom (by any means whatsoever). Point six. The question is also what is being achieved with this legislation. "With this ban, a face veiled mother should not go beyond the gates of the schoolyard when she brings her child to school. On parent nights and report interviews, she will no longer be welcome with her niqaab. This ban in educational establishments continues to promote the educational development of women themselves, who are no longer able to benefit from training, training or further training. What is even worse is that these women with their niqaab are no longer allowed to use health care, resulting in long walking around with health problems that worsen. They will no longer be able to use public transport, which means that they will not be able to move freely. For taking the niqaab off will not be an option for these women despite the limitation imposed by their government. This makes these women dependent on others by their government. Isolation and exclusion is the result of the implementation of this bill."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u134	I've been listening for a long time. What I hear from DENK, from Kuzu now, is that it is really a dramatic proposal. I wonder why Mr Kuzu has sat here in these blue benches with this coalition agreement. Has he made any reservations on this point? Did he say, no, I'm not gonna sit in this plush because I can't take care of this? He just signed off on the cross. To all those people who are listening today and who think this man is really against this burqa ban, I say: people, he just signed by the cross. He was okay with sitting here in the seats and then filling it up. It's really shameless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u135	I don't know how that goes at the CDA. But in the time I was a member of the PvdA, members of the political groups were not forced to sign a cross for the coalition agreement. We have also discussed this extensively. At the meeting in which we discussed the coalition agreement, I also objected to this point, just as I raised objections about the paragraph on asylum and integration, about the loan system and about many things that were contained in this coalition agreement and which we criticised. And do you know what Diederik Samsom, the group leader of the PvdA, answered at the time? Mr Recourt remembers that very well. He said: I will ensure that some of the proposals contained in this coalition agreement will not be pushed aside from the VVD. I see in 2016, four years after the coalition agreement was discussed, that many things, including this bill, have fallen in the direction of the VVD. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u136	This is just an apology for being a coward. There were threats in the coalition agreement about which I totally freaked Maxime Verhagen out, because I said: it's just not gonna happen. He has gone through the fire for me and for my colleagues with very important points. In this way, we have agreed on a government agreement with each other, and we have stood for it. But Mr Kuzu did not do that. He is blowing the whistle on a proposal whose text has not changed. In the coalition agreement with which the coalition ended up sitting on these benches, it simply says that this ban will come into effect. This does not need to be pushed towards the VVD. It was clasp-and-ready. I even think that the government has done its best to limit it on these points, because I do not think that there were any exceptions in the way that doctors get the space and so on. Maybe that's what this minister used to ride in it. In the end, Mr Kuzu is making a beautiful decoration here with a coalition agreement for which he simply sat down in these beautiful blue benches and then shouted murder and fire. He was the arsonist himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u137	Bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, We've been criticizing this since day one. We have also seen that it did not arrive in the Chamber until four years after the government agreement was signed. If it were all that easy, we'd have had it three or four years ago. We see that we are at the end of the reign. It was also the CDA who shouted murder and fire that we would have to deal with this bill for this cabinet period. I knew the CDA as a party that stands for freedom of religion. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that it is 'own religion first'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u138	I take responsibility for what I sign up for. I take responsibility for any coalition agreement with which I sat on the benches and not Mr Kuzu, because he was just fine with it so that I could sit here and scream. It's a cowardice you say to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u139	Moreover, it was Mr Kuzu who, in my opinion, came to the Chamber with a great deal of mandate, also on the basis of preferred votes, and who clearly shows the voice of people you do not want to hear, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I would like to ask you whether during the ten years you have been in the Chamber, you have had a conversation with the women who sit on top of this in the public gallery. Did you do that? And if you did, what did you take from it? I know this is entrapment, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u140	That is why Mrs Van Toorenburg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u141	I told you, I've been having this debate for ten years. I've spoken to women with nikabs and burqas several times. I even had them in an association in Saudi Arabia. I even talked to them there. And you know what's so funny? Last night I took the train home. I put my bag down, I sit down, I look up and I see I'm sitting next to a woman in a nikab. I talked to her, too. She volunteered. Fine. We've had a spicy conversation. We wished each other a good day and I said: I hope I never see you on this train again. It was an honest conversation, an open conversation. I'll do it every time. I'll do it again tomorrow. I just hope not in the four places where this government is going to ban it from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u142	It is good that Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA is involved in this discussion, but it would also be good if she were to learn something from it. I understand that she didn't learn anything from it last night and that she hasn't for the last ten years either. Mr President, point seven. "This bill only encourages polarisation and turns people against each other. We are very concerned about this. The facial woman feels increasingly unsafe on the streets and in public places. These women themselves are at greater risk of becoming victims of threats of violence, according to Professor Moors' research. Contrary to the claim that society will be safer on a partial ban. We know from experience that, since the legislative proposal for a general ban in 2012, verbal and physical violence against these women has increased. The abused woman from Eindhoven has confirmed the fear of many. The media then went into conversation with a number of veiled women. According to Um Abdurrahman, a 35-year-old converted Muslim, who has been wearing a niqaab for fourteen years, this is the fourth violent crime against niqaab carriers since the summer of 2013. And I'm only talking about Eindhoven! To sum up, the adverse effects of this bill: - Limitation of freedom of expression and of religion. - Limitation of freedom to dress as you wish. Creating fear in society. - Suppression and exclusion of full Dutch citizens. Making women dependent on others after they were independent. - Isolation of different-dressed civilians. - Deterioration of the health of these citizens. - Obstruction of educational development. - Polarization. Setting up groups against each other. - Increase verbal and physical violence against other-dressed citizens. So how do we think we're gonna do it? Reject the bill for a limited ban on facial clothing, because it violates Dutch law and international human rights. And comply with current legislation in protecting every citizen regardless of his choice of clothing. In practice, there is already agreement and cooperation between the relevant citizens and their service providers: women, when they identify, raise their faces and take them off in the treatment room. It is unfair to exclude these women and to isolate them because there is a subjective fear among certain citizens. Let us not close our eyes to this ambiguous European trend in following the banning of expressing yourself. Have the courage not to be completely guided by the political delusion of the day, in which the veil of vision has been placed in a negative light by the media, but base yourself on reality!"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u143	I hear Mr Kuzu making a warm plea for freedom of religion here. He's even talking about international treaties. Then let's just turn it around a little bit. Does Mr Kuzu think that in countries like Saudi Arabia women also have the right to go down the street without facial clothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u144	I find that very interesting. We are here in the Dutch Parliament, with 150 MPs. We're talking about the Netherlands. Let's also talk about the Netherlands. We're talking about a bill on facial clothing. That's a trend. "If they don't like it there, we shouldn't want it here either." That is the difference between the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia. Here in the Netherlands, that would be okay. We have a Constitution here. We have human rights. We have a civilization we're proud of. Bringing in examples from Saudi Arabia, that ambiguity, I do not stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u145	I think I am asking a very clear question, to which Mr Kuzu can simply answer yes or no. It is true that we in the Netherlands do have that freedom. I note that in many Islamic countries that freedom does not prevail. Then Mr Kuzu would be a guy if he said: I condemn that too. Because freedom of religion doesn't just work one way. It works both ways. Does Mr Kuzu agree? Does he want to condemn these practices in Muslim countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u146	We condemn oppression and exploitation of women, wherever they are in the world, on whatever basis. Let's get that straight. However, it is not correct, and it would not adorn the Christian Union, and it also knows that a few months ago a few motions were passed on this matter if it is said: here in the Netherlands we have mosques, but in Saudi Arabia there is no other church. That's the beauty of the Netherlands! We should be proud of that, and that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u147	It is clear from everything that Mr Kuzu is only going one way. I ask the very simple question whether he wants to condemn practice in Saudi Arabia, for example, or other Muslim countries where this freedom does not apply to Christians, for example. He doesn't even do that. I find that really disgusting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u148	Nonsense. I just said that we are against oppression on any basis. Whether it is a Christian minority in Saudi Arabia or anywhere in the Middle East. This morning, there was the budget debate on Foreign Affairs. There I talked about the Rohingya minority in Myanmar. Mr Voordewind agreed with me. We are against oppression and exclusion anywhere in the world on any basis. But it should not be, and I often see that in the Christian Union, that is said: it should not be there, so it should not be here. I'm far from it. Mr. Chairman. So much for the task force getting rid of my niqaab. We are looking forward to the Minister's response to all their points. I'm rounding up. In France, the burka ban is already in place. More than 1,000 fines have been imposed there. 90% of those fines are paid by the foundation Don't touch my Constitution. The founder of the foundation is Rachid Nekkaz. He says: I am against the nikab, but I am in favour of the freedom to walk in. Unfortunately, it seems that the burka ban will also be introduced in the Netherlands. Hopefully we'll also get a foundation here that pays the fines. But the fundamental injustice, of course, is not taken away. Listen to William of Orange, listen to all those women and stay away from freedom of religion with your fingers. Dare to think differently, dare to be just and dare to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the floor last. I can be brief and clear: I have signed the government agreement on this point and I therefore support it. That may be obvious, but I still have a few questions. Moreover, I would have preferred to move in a different direction than some people have advocated here. I have two questions and, unfortunately, because I cannot be present at the second part of the debate, I would like to make a motion with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u150	I shall first check whether there is any objection, because it is not customary to table a motion in the first term. Motions also start with "heard the debate."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u151	If you can't, you can't. It is purely because, unfortunately, I will probably be the last person to speak in the next round. But if you can't, I'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u152	I'll see if there's any objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u153	"Objection" is always a strange word, but as you say it is: the Chamber, heard the debate. If I haven't heard anything, of course I can't say. Perhaps Mr Monasch should give his motion to the Members. Maybe someone thinks she is so brilliant that we share her view on behalf of Mr Monasch, but we should take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u154	I can't avoid such a challenge and invitation. I understand the point. That's not a problem. I'm gonna ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u155	Look. Then it's settled. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u156	You've run out of time, but it's not that limited, is it, in this debate? Thank you again to the Minister for the transmission of this moving bill. It is a good thing that we are going to conclude the discussion. As far as I'm concerned, there are two questions left. The cabinet does not choose to prohibit the wearing of facial clothing in public space as a whole. It is limited to a number of specific areas, means of transport and buildings. In Belgium and France, the wearing of facial clothing in public space is prohibited by law. So it's not that weird. Now that our southern neighbors have taken this measure, a ban on facial clothing in public space, what arguments does the government have to insist on this proposal and not move in the right direction in respect of decent democracies such as France and Belgium? My second point, also in view of the background of this Minister, is to return to this point. One aspect of the ban in public space is that it is imposed by a belief dominated by men who impose their will on women and decide what to wear. That is why it is an important point for me. As far as I am concerned, the nikab or the burqa is a symbol of women's oppression. That is also my question to the Minister. Why does this cabinet want to allow this model of women's oppression in our street view? Why look away while normalising what we find acceptable here in the Netherlands is desirable? I would like to hear why the cabinet wants to tolerate this symbol of women's oppression in our street image, unlike in France and Belgium. Several colleagues have made comments about guests in the public gallery. I have a question about that, too, which I'm putting here. I find it extremely uncomfortable that I can't look people in the face. I'm a public representative here. I'm standing here doing my job. I also want to be able to see everyone in the face in a democratic debate, whether they are here or up there. It'll be taken from me. I find that uncomfortable. I think it's undesirable. If we are debating together here in the House of Democracy, then everyone is making themselves known for the whole duration of the debate. I think it is undesirable for us to have visitors who are veiled here or in other halls, while we are having an open democratic debate here. I hope that is the thrust of my motion for a resolution that you want to see to it that the house rules of this house are changed so that everyone, while sitting here during a democratic debate, will be presentable and made known for the entire duration of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u157	The Chamber should also comply with the laws and regulations. The current laws and regulations make it possible for people in the public gallery to be present in this way. If the law changes, so will the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u158	That's what my motion was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u159	If we are dealing here with laws that concern people, in this case people who wear burqa or nikab, does Mr Monasch not think it right that these people are present, because democracy is open and transparent? Isn't it really okay with him that if there's a law being handled that affects you in your life, you're there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u160	It cannot be that, depending on the subject of the debate, I have to change my opinion on the way in which someone is dressed or not. I am concerned that people may be present at this debate or at another debate. When I debate here as a representative of the people, I want to be able to look people in the eye. I am now being deprived of that right as a representative of the people. I am doing my job here, and I want to have an open democratic debate, and I am a great fan of the democratic rule of law, but I cannot do that now. Hence my request to see whether that cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr Monasch is not having the debate with these women, is he? The debate is being held with Mr Van Raak, with Mr Recourt and with a number of other people. How is Mr Monasch hindered in the debate he is holding with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u162	I would like to raise this point because I wanted to raise a point of order, and I would also like to address this question to the Bureau. I am not asking this question to Mrs Voortman, because I know her point of view. I think that is a reprehensible position. I find it reprehensible that I, as a democratic representative of the people, should be debating in a house where I cannot look people in the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u163	I note that Mr Monasch can debate with people who he can look straight in the face. That's what he and I are doing right now. His point that he is being obstructed during this debate is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u164	Then Mrs Voortman is not well informed. I like to look into the audience, but maybe that doesn't apply to her. I like to debate with people who are present and I just see that in this public gallery...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u165	But you don't debate with the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u166	I am not just debating this with my colleagues. I'm debating for... this is an open forum. This is not just about one representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u167	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u168	I think that's what's holding us back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u169	I do not want Mr Monasch's question to be entirely clear. Do I understand correctly that Mr Monasch is asking the government if the house of democracy is a government building? That's actually the question. Is this a government building? Is this room and this building even covered in that? I understand that Mr Monasch wishes to put that question to the Minister, because I also have that question. I don't think it's official, but I don't know. Maybe your implored clerk knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u170	I take this question with me, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u172	I think that question was addressed to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u173	That was addressed to you? Okay, I'll have a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u174	Yeah, do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u175	This is the heart of Dutch democracy. How does Mr Monasch reconcile this democracy with his remark that he is in a debate with the public who wants to follow this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u176	I'd rather have this discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u177	May I respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u178	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u179	In the heart of democracy, there is an open-minded debate, but that is precisely not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u180	Thank you. Mrs Koşer Kaya, I think this point has been discussed enough. We came here at the end of the first term of office. The Minister states that he can start his reply immediately. I would very much like to know from him how his answers have been built up and how much time he thinks he needs for his first term so that we can take that into account in planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr. Chairman. I suggest that I start with the starting point of the law as it stands. I will put a few accents on this. I will then deal with the enforcement of the bill, after which I will discuss concerns about the potential avoidance of care. I will then deal with a number of specific questions from the Members. A few questions have been asked that are not covered by these general themes. Finally, I will deal with the amendments that have been tabled. I think I should be able to be ready at 6 p.m. on the basis of my pure speaking time, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u182	I know you're not the only one who can influence that. I suggest you proceed with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u183	As several Members have pointed out, the proposal before us is not a general ban on facial clothing, as is the case in Belgium and France, and as has been the case here in previous proposals. So in that sense, if it is adopted, the bill will clarify the fact that people can also go across the street with a covered face. Several speakers, including Mr Bishop, Mrs Schouten and Mr Recourt, asked why this choice was made. Let me explain. I too find it undesirable and unpleasant in general that people cover the face. I think that is mostly due to considerations which I do not share and which I consider undesirable. On the other hand, we live in a free country where people can stand in their front yard and go down the street as they wish. In the end, you have to weigh between the two motives. Considering everything, the cabinet has stipulated in the present bill that you should also be able to go across the street with a covered face in a free country. That's one side of the bill before us. The specific feature of this bill is that for four sectors, namely education, care, public transport and public buildings, it is stipulated that you should not cover the face there. That is because the services that are provided there and the interactions that take place there, by their nature, mean that people can look into each other's faces. Let me give you an example. In education, the norm is that you can not only learn the tables of multiplication but also look into each other's faces. You must be able to read each other's feelings and emotions to some extent from the face. You have to be open to each other. In addition, but that is not the main issue, aspects such as identification and, on some occasions, security play a role, but it is important that the process of caring for people in vulnerable situations or the process of education for young people who still have to learn how things are going in the world means that you set that standard as such. That is the choice that is made here and which is also laid down in the law. That is more than just symbolic politics, because in the social debate and in practice, what is apparent from the cases before the Committee on Equal Opportunities is sometimes unclear what is and what is not allowed. I take it as an example that, in the case of training as a pharmacist's assistant, it was not allowed to ask people to cover the face, but it was allowed in the case of a toddler's playroom or a Protestant-Christian school community. Now the legislator lays down the standard: in the areas just mentioned, it is not allowed to cover the face. That cannot be a surprise, because that is the result of the coalition agreement. For the record, people sometimes think that the government made the coalition agreement, but it is not. This was established by the newly constituted Chamber after the elections. A government is then asked to implement that government agreement. For all those who were elected to the Chamber at the time, it is no surprise, because at least four years ago there was a majority in the Chamber that concluded that coalition agreement as such. There are a few points that are important in the legislative proposal before us. We also cut through a few buttons that might have been cut otherwise. Firstly, we are ultimately talking about a non-religious proposal. I agree with those who say that the discussion about ski masks or integral helmets does not often take place. Nevertheless, it is important that the legislator has chosen to regulate a ban on covering the face, regardless of one's motives for doing so. That makes sense in the answer to the question of its legal status and what the test will yield. Whatever the reason for the social debate, I do not deny that the burqa played a major role in it. The proposal as such is religiously neutral. Secondly, a spatial ban has been chosen. It could've been different. You could have said everything that educational institutions are involved in. Then the school trip would be covered, too. However, the draft law has also opted for the wording as explained in the explanatory memorandum. These are buildings, real estate or public transport vehicles, which relate to the four areas covered by this prohibition. That also makes it easy. That also means there can be no misunderstanding. In the case of a school, the ban applies not only in a classroom, but also in the hallway and in the playground and the schoolyard. That's where the law ends. This is, moreover, without prejudice to one of the questions put, that there may also be other reasons, for example in the context of public policy, why a temporary ban on facial clothing can be chosen on occasion. But I'm not going to go into that now. It's a simple ban. It targets the one who covers the face. Infringement leads to a fine that cannot be higher than €410. Fines are indexed; the proposal still contains €405. Furthermore, only the carrier is punishable. I shall come back to that in detail later. So if a doctor treats someone who covers the face, that treatment does not eliminate the criminality of that carrier or carrier; it remains of course criminal. But that doctor wouldn't be a criminal offence. I'll come back to the case of care in a moment. So this is a starting point. Finally, in order to avoid all kinds of absurdities, the bill provides that specific situations such as actors in stage performances, a surgeon with a mouth cap or a diver with a diver's hat are not covered by the scope of the prohibition. However, the ban does apply to balaclava and the integral helmet. And if someone covers his face entirely with scarves, so I say in response to a question from someone about this, that also falls according to the letter under the law that is before us. This is what I wanted to say about the basic principles of the legislative proposal before us. With this, I also replied to comments from many of the spokesmen. I am not going to repeat all the names every time about the starting points. This brings me to my second point. Mrs Koşer Kaya, Mrs Van Toorenburg and a number of other spokesmen spoke about the enforcement of the law before us. Let me say first of all that I assume, also on the basis of research carried out by Vizea two years ago and on the basis of experience abroad, that in principle Dutch citizens tend to comply with the law. Oh, thank God! The intended and also foreseeable effect of this law will therefore be that women will usually be women who say: I go across the street with a covered face, but when I go to the hall of the AMC or when I stand in the school square with my children, that is not allowed and I have to take off the cover. I also expect them to say in their own environment: it is the law and, although I prefer not to, I join the law. I therefore expect that in the vast majority of cases people will comply with this law, even though they would rather not. Moreover, as Mr Van Raak pointed out, this law has a standard-setting character, including for institutions that may already have house rules. This law now provides the framework: this is the law. So you can know that there is a legal basis when drawing up house rules and making agreements on their application. You should always be careful with comparison, but compare it to a parking ban at a health care facility. Nobody parks in front of the door twice and then goes in. You can't do that. That is and will remain forbidden. Then, in this case, it is up to the doctor to decide whether to treat the patient first or to tell the patient: first you have to park your car properly and then I come to the necessary medical treatment of the wart on your knee. We're not gonna touch that assessment. It is up to the institution itself to assess how it deals with implementing the ban in practice. The general standard thus stops the discussion and allows institutions to determine for themselves how to deal with it. I can imagine a bus driver saying to someone who gets in the car, "You can't have the face covered here." If this law is passed, transport companies, as I have agreed with them, can determine how to deal with it in instructions for the driver. A bus driver like that sits there on his own when someone like that gets in. You don't want to put people who do their jobs and who don't have the authority to search in a difficult situation. So you need to record: is he going to call the police if necessary? How do we deal with this in practice? So that is up to the sector, but the ban is clear. I think that eventually, if you play the game all the way to the endgame, you will say at a school, for example, to a teacher, amanuensis, amanuensis, visitor or older: you know the law, this is not allowed here, we ask you to either show the face or quit. If they do not comply, the ultimate consequence is that it is possible to say: in this situation we cannot accept this; we call the police. It could then come and act as a enforcer. In the extreme case, and perhaps not at the first time, that could lead to the writing out of a print, a receipt, just like with a parking permit. I am now looking at Mr Recourt, who has been a judge. I am not, but I think that in practice the highest fine will not be charged immediately in the case of the first infringement. It does not suit me to determine its level, but it will be lower than the maximum amount. Finally, and then the block of enforcement is ready, I think that in practice, which I painted, this will not put an enormous pressure on the police force. The number of people who wear such a thing at all runs in the hundreds; there are not many. I am always reluctant to mention absolute numbers, also because some people only do it on occasion. I think most people will take it off, or even without the question, because they know it's not allowed. Then maybe you'll have a small group left. It is primarily up to the institutions to deal with it in practice, because it is prohibited. Eventually, in a single case, the police will have to maintain it. I think that's within the capacity of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u184	Let me take a look at Mrs Voortman, because the Minister will return to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u185	The Minister expresses a number of expectations, but on what basis is his expectation that people will say: from now on will I no longer choose this garment? Isn't the expectation just as real that people will say, "Well, then don't I go to that parent's night?" On what does the Minister base this expectation? I would also like to know exactly how police enforcement works. First of all, it's the bus driver, the teacher or the doctor who says it's not allowed. If that doesn't work, the police will come in. I would also like to know more precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u186	That expectation is based on the picture we currently have of the general ban on burqa abroad. Just now the 1,000 coupons were mentioned, but this is true in France, where you are not allowed to go over the street with a face cover and where the number of carriers is also much higher than in the Netherlands. There is also a Vizea investigation from 2014. I, too, had a conversation with people from a burk-carrying organization in my room. Mrs. Voortman asked for that. Of course, I can't judge if they were the same people. My overall picture is, also based on my knowledge of how people deal with legal prohibitions, that basically the vast majority of women will know themselves strengthened because it is not allowed to say to their dominant husband, aunt or uncle who is strict on it: sorry, it is not allowed to get off the law, so I have to take it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u187	Finally, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u188	Of course, it could also very well be that a dominant husband or a dominant relative says: and now you stay home. So we don't know at all if that's gonna be the effect. The women who choose to do so will in any case feel hindered to choose for themselves what they are wearing. I would also point out to the Minister a broader effect. It is not just about the numbers of people carrying a burqa or a nikab, but also about the effect on a larger group of people of a measure that the government says: we are now choosing to restrict this piece of freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u189	That's why I started the way I started. I have stressed that this proposal is not a total burqa ban, unlike in our neighbouring countries Belgium and France, but focuses exclusively on face-covering clothing. I remember a statement by Mrs Halsema van GroenLinks, who said that I would like to rip those things off. That's not the point at all. Mrs. Voortman gestures: so do I. But I wouldn't want that. I think people can wear a symbol of their faith, whether it's a yarmulke, a head cloth or a cross. But the social process, for example in education, means that you don't cover your face. That's the choice of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u190	The Minister talks about images and assumptions. I can't really do much with that, because that sounds like: believe me on my blue eyes. I want some factual evidence. The Minister indicated that they wanted a general standard and that the discussion would end. Was there a huge discussion between the institutions and the people with a burqa? And on the basis of what figures is this said? Then the Minister says: if there is a discussion after the introduction of this law, I do not expect much of it. That too is based on an assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u191	In reply to this question, I give a brief overview of cases before the Equal Treatment Committee, including the ruling. Training as a pharmacist's assistant: prohibited distinction. Nikab bearing students: no prohibited distinction. 2003/2004, Director of Elementary School refuses to speak to mother with facial cover about the registration of son: forbidden distinction. Concept clothing code for Protestant school community: no prohibited distinction. Toddler playroom sets rules for nikab bearer mother in 2009: no forbidden distinction. It's not many cases, by the way. Let me stress that again. But there seems to be some discussion about where the border is. That will be solved both ways. I also hear that people who wear a nikab or burqa are being addressed in the streets by people who say that they can't do that anymore, or they can't do that anymore. That is not the case. That may be true, but if the law is in the Official Journal, it is no longer allowed in these four areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u192	Finally, Mrs Koşer Kaya on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u193	Those are indeed a few examples, but there is no broad study that I could conclude is a huge problem in practice. I'd like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u194	Vizea research 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u195	Furthermore, this shows that in practice there is already a good solution with the legal instruments available. What does this bill add?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u196	I believe that Mr Recourt asked for the same in the first period of interruption. It's a two-way thing: either you're very sorry, because there's a ban that there wasn't, or you're actually codifying by law something that was already in the house rules for a number of institutions. To be honest, I think that is the case in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u197	What if an institution likes it all and doesn't press charges at all? It may be that the institution says: fine, if you appreciate it, you do. In adult education it may be said: slide over, don't report it. I would like to have answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u198	I understand the question. I think the answer needs to be clear. From the moment it is in the Official Journal, it is forbidden to cover the face within the premises of such an institution. That is just as forbidden as, for example, it is forbidden to put the car on the sidewalk. I assume that the competent authority will have the desire to maintain that ban and that it will appeal to people to do so. If we do not do this at all, it can of course happen that one of the visitors does so. He can say: wait a minute, I come here in a situation that I find very objectionable. In the final case, however, I cannot imagine that it would be possible, in principle, to report it, because it is a criminal offence. Someone could complain and say: that's something to me; I come every time in the hall of the hospital and I'm surrounded by people who cover the face and that's not allowed. Anyway, that seems very extreme to me. If the institution does not maintain, it seems to me more normal for another visitor to turn to the institution and to maintain order against the doorman or anyone else there at that time, says: I would like to point out that what is happening here should not really be allowed. That's not new. This also applies to the ban on smoking on the train or all kinds of other bans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u199	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u200	Thank you. This is enlightening. That could be a way. I mention this because the educational organizations have sent out the signal that there is not a great deal or an urgent need for such legislation. But this is obvious. Institutions shall be deemed to maintain this. I have a supplementary question. Is it permissible for these institutions to incorporate the legal provisions into the policy they may pursue as an institution with regard to clothing regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u201	Yeah, that's allowed, but there's not that much crazy to incorporate. It is clear from the bill that in the schoolyard, in the hallway and in the classroom, in the buildings of a school, you are not allowed to cover your face, whether you are older, visitor, teacher or student or otherwise. If one wants to incorporate that legal provision in one way or another, that can of course be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u202	I can also imagine that some schools say: no caps are worn at school either, period. That would then be an extension to this legal provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u203	I would like to keep the discussion pure. The law is clear as it is. In addition, and on top of that, institutions can have dress regulations. There's a lot of case law about that. It's known, but it's strictly unrelated to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u204	It's not quite clear to me yet. Take the metaphor of wrong parking. If you do that in the E.R. because you're running in with your kid with an arterial hemorrhage, I don't think the hospital's saying, hop, print. If I understand the Minister correctly, there is room for a practical solution and he says: others may be able to report it. I don't think so. You can only ask the hospital to perform. You can, I think, as a citizen not press charges and say: I'm in the waiting room with a lady I don't know; police, would you like to perform? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u205	It's about how the police handle the enforcement of criminal offences. As a former judge, Mr Recourt has cut more with that axe than I have, but I agree with him that there is an escalation ladder. People should first of all understand for themselves that they shouldn't do it. That will generally solve it. You can also appeal to each other and in the future, like, "Do you know you can't smoke here?', Say, do you know you can't cover the face here? If that doesn't have any consequences, it does make sense for you to turn to the one who's going about the order. In the hospital, that could be the nurse who organizes the place in the waiting room. You could say to those people, "Do you know that someone there is doing something that isn't supposed to be done?" That's a long way from taking your cell phone to call the police station and then ask the police to come in front of it. That all seems extremely theoretical to me. But I do think it is important not to put a legal ban into perspective even before it has reached the Official Journal, because 'punished' is, of course, 'punished'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u206	I certainly don't want to put it into perspective either, but I do want clarity. The minister's about to go into care, so let me take education as an example. I can imagine a school saying to a parent: it's a legal standard and I don't want you to come into the school with face-covering guidance, but because you're holding on and keep wearing that face-covering clothing, I still want to talk about your child's bad school results, because we put the child first. Well, then the school will have the room to give it a practical interpretation, won't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u207	Oh, yeah. I have also experienced this practical interpretation, because I have had an extensive conversation in my room with a number of people who are wearing a nikab and who have united themselves. In addition, they were wearing face-covering clothing. Before that, they spoke to one of my legal assistants. In that conversation they had left the face uncovered, because they find it no problem to show the face in the presence of women. You can find all kinds of things, but of course there are many possibilities for practical solutions. Mr. Chairman. That's about enforcement. I've actually said something about avoiding care. I very much understand that concern. I will peel it off layer by layer, because this is an important subject. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of the intended and expected effect, namely that one will show one's face because it is the legal standard. In the first term, it was asked why this is necessary with the doctor, but the doctor is verse two. For example, it is also important for other people in the waiting room, who can also be in a vulnerable situation and prefer to have a normal interaction with the people on the seat next to them. It may also be important for caregivers who want to keep a very close eye on patients, even if they are still in the waiting room. They want to be able to see how someone's doing. If they see in practice that someone isn't doing so well, they can get a glass of water, they can ask someone to lie down for a moment, or they can let someone go in with priority. For this it is useful and necessary that one can see the face. I hope and expect people to take their faces off there. I have already said that the ban concerns the one who covers the face and has no further effect on the people around them. If the doctor, in his or her professionalism, sees reason to leave anything but for what it is and to proceed to treatment, that has no consequences for that doctor. He can judge that himself at the time. The criminality will then persist. In that sense, I've made the comparison with another, minor offense like a parking violation. Even then, it could theoretically be true that a doctor chooses to treat first and that the patient then goes outside and sees that there is a print on his car. If you go to the police station, I guess... well, I don't really know what happens then. That probably depends on the situation. Not every emergency service brings with it the right to break the law, not even on that point. I would, however, like to assure Mr Recourt, also on behalf of my colleagues from VWS, that I will keep my finger on the wrist and keep a close eye on whether, in the first year following the entry into force of the law, it must of course have taken a moment to avoid any concern. I'll report it to the Chamber if that's the case. I will leave it in the middle for a moment to decide what the consequences are, but at least then it will be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u208	I had asked three questions about my concerns in the care. I would like to thank the Minister for seeing whether it leads to concern. I assume that the children of people with facial clothing will also be involved. It's not just about the person himself. So I mentioned three practical points...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u209	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u210	No, I think he just went into that. Firstly, the point that the doctor should care if he thinks he should. Secondly, the criminality and the possibility of practical solutions in the general practitioner and in the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u211	And third, I'll keep the finger on the wrist to see if it leads to unwanted effects. I want to try...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u212	I'll come back to that doctor. By definition, it is not a criminal offence. That is an important point. Suppose a doctor says: I'm not gonna do anything with this; I'm a doctor, I'm there to provide care and I'm not there to tell people what to wear, so if people come here with a burka or nikab, that doesn't change anything for me. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u213	I answered that question: it does not lift criminality. If the doctor says by analogy that smoking is allowed in his waiting room or that patients can put their car on the sidewalk, because he treats them anyway, then the person who commits that offence remains a criminal offence. It's just not the doctor's act that gives that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u214	If someone parks their car on the sidewalk, you can call the district cop at some point. But what happens if a doctor does not maintain the burqa ban because he does not think it is his job, if he is addressed to it by another patient, but does his fundamental problem remain with the ban? Should the other patient go to the police and say, "You should take a look at this practice?" How does it work in situations like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u215	I refer briefly to my answer to Mr Recourt's questions. I took care of the order in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u216	You didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u217	I'd be happy to repeat it. Firstly, I assume that people will comply with the law themselves. Secondly, citizens can appeal to each other under this law: do you know that it is forbidden here? Thirdly, people can turn to the person, the competent authority, who deals with the order on the ground. That could be a nurse making sure people can get into the treatment room in turn. Finally, it is conceivable that people should turn to the police and say: do you know that the law is not enforced there? But that seems to me to be an extremely extreme situation in this case, which will not be achieved quickly, because these three steps have preceded it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u218	Now for the other points!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mrs Schouten asked whether it was true that nothing changes outside these four areas. The answer is yes. Is a community center a government building? Yeah, if it's under the administration of the municipality. The explanatory statement shows that, in general, the location combined with management determines whether or not there is criminality. A case was asked for, but I don't really want to do too much about this case. Anyway, if a school board decides to rent a space for one evening, it will remain a school and will remain under the management of the school board. That is why the ban applies. For ZBOs, the answer is also affirmative. Finally, Mrs Schouten's question as to whether it is legally sustainable. The short answer is affirmative. As Mrs Schouten said, we have extended the explanatory statement in order to provide further justification. I believe that Mr Bishop also pointed out that the far-reaching overall ban in Belgium and France remained in place at the European Court of Justice. The fact that, in the light of the ECHR, it will remain, in the firm belief of the lawyers consulted, is that it is governed by law, that it is foreseeable, that the prohibition is known and accessible, that there is a legitimate objective, that there is proportionality and that the.I started with it, I have been formulated religiously neutrally. After all, it is about the covering of the face, no matter what the motives of a person are to do so. It therefore does not call into question religious freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u220	I would like to come back to the question of which buildings are covered or not. We already have cases here and that shows that it is sometimes quite difficult. I, as a citizen, do not always know when I enter a particular building, whether it falls entirely formally in line with the authority of the municipality and how the funding is built up. Can the Minister state what happens if someone is really assuming that he is in a public non-public space and that, on second thought, it does not turn out to be so? Will the Minister indicate when there is or is not a public area or will there be a discussion between the person committing the offence and the police? How am I supposed to imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u221	This is quite a lot of cases and I can refer to the explanatory statement for that, because quite a lot of written questions have been asked. In general terms, the competent authority on the ground must first assess whether it believes that the law is applicable and secondly whether it is responsible for communicating it to the visitors, the customers and the people who work there, so that it is clear. If someone walks into a station and wonders whether he should leave the face uncovered, then the explanatory statement shows the choice we make in the present legislative proposal, namely that the platform is more or less open to the sidewalk where one can avoid each other. That is why the platform is still outside the prohibition. If you enter the vehicle, that is where the ban begins. Again, that case-law is deboned in the explanatory memorandum, the further report and the reply. Eventually, the person responsible for an institution will have to make the decision. I'm not entirely ruling out that it'll ever come to trial, but then the judge can also check it against the law, including the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u222	Finally, Mrs Schouten, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u223	In twos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u224	Yeah, I'd rather.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u225	Now the responsibility is shifted a bit to the competent authority, because that has to decide whether or not it is covered by the law. The case law has indeed been treated reasonably, for there are some examples described in the explanatory memorandum. I can imagine that's not exhausting. Then it can't be that it has to be said on the spot whether or not it's a public space. The Minister also bears a certain degree of responsibility for this and, if so, should he not indicate per room 'attend, you are under the law'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u226	Agreed. That's what I did. I did so in the written reply. It was just added orally: what about a community center, and what about a Zbo? I answered both of them. If the community centre is managed by the municipality, it is considered to be a public area. A Zbo is also included. As a legislator, you can only make as much clarity as possible. In order to be precise, the person who deals with the local order must, of course, do his best to comply with the law. The final test of whether that happened is done by the judge. Now that we are looking at so much finesse: this also applies, for example, to the question of how permeable a face-covering voile should be before it is considered as facial covering. In the end, of course, a test must be carried out in all reasonable terms, first in practice. Theoretically, it might even end up being restrained by the judge. Precisely because we restricted the law in four areas and in locations, I think the law is as clear as he can be. Suppose, for example, you say "education." This is not about the place but about the process of education. I've considered it, but then suddenly it gets really complicated. For example, you go on a school trip, or you walk down the street with your class. Then I can imagine, indeed, that you will have endless casuism. As I said in my introduction, the cabinet deliberately chose to attribute the law to the locations, making it relatively clear. Is something a care institution, an educational institution, a government building or a public transport vehicle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u227	Finally, I would like to know whether the law will also apply to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u228	Yes, that was my next comment on Mr Monasch's contribution. Are we a government agency? I think so, but it is important that this is also taken into account in the answer given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u229	I understand the question. That's the case. The Second Chamber, the States-General are a High College of State, just like the Council of State and a number of other bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u230	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u231	I'm not going on about the order, but I'm going on about the law: that's what they're under the law. Mr Azmani argued that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports this proposal but would like to go further and favour a total ban on facial clothing. I take note of that. I would nevertheless like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their support for the proposal. Mrs. Voortman asked if I had conversations with people who cover the face. I did. She also suggested that the forthcoming elections might be the basis of the legislative proposal. That is not the case. It was established by government agreement just after the previous elections by the Lower House. It's had some feet in the earth, but it's just execution of that. Mr Bishop asked whether the provisions of the general local regulations would remain possible. That is true, but they must have the aim of preventing a disturbance of order. I shall come to the amendments in a moment. It must be based on a specific objective. It cannot simply be in general: we want to maintain order in Apeldoorn and that is why it cannot be on the streets. I answered the question about the rented school location. The issue of the polling station is a matter of case law. It is important to establish it here. If this is done in a building that is not strictly one of the sectors, for example in a church building or in a mosque, then at that time it has the function of which it does fall under the prohibition on that occasion. This is the answer to Mr Bishop's question. I believe that I have answered Mr Van Raak's question about the deviation. Mr De Graaf gave an extensive overview of the history. I take note of that. I leave that to him, also in view of the hour. This is the proposal now before us. That is what I am defending here, and I am pleased that Mr De Graaf supports the proposal. Mr Recourt began his speech, which speaks very much to me, by referring to the fact that there is a problem behind it, which is much greater than the numbers suggest. It has everything to do with the relationship between man and woman and with views that I do not want to spell out here, for example that there is an asymmetry which makes it the responsibility of women to cover her beauty, so that the man does not come to the wrong thoughts. You can find anything you want. Mr Asscher, who is responsible for integration, has extensive programmes to achieve further integration, which he regularly discusses, explains and defends here. We have talked about care-avoidance. As a result of Mr Recourt's contribution, I have already identified other forms of facial cover that are all covered by this bill. Mrs Van Toorenburg pointed out that the professional is ultimately the one who, supported by the law, is the first to tell people that what they are doing now is not allowed. I actually said that in my introduction. So I totally agree with that. To the extent that people will not comply with the law by themselves, I think it is sufficient if the doctor's assistant, the teacher or the amanuensis points out on the basis of a picture or the house regulations that this is not allowed here. Of course, that's the lead. The inspection oversees the entire course in schools, including this subject, but, strictly speaking, does not have any role in enforcing prohibition legislation as such. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked how the police operate. At some point we will come to the limit of what I want to explain here as Minister for Foreign Affairs, because this really brings you to the task of the police and the execution of the police work. That's gonna get you on V and J's property. I hope that the legal framework is clear on this point. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already responded to Mr Kuzu. I don't have much to add to that. Finally, I come to Mr Monasch's questions, which were partly addressed to the Presidency. I believe they have been answered by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u232	However, I have asked a number of very specific questions which have not been dealt with by Mrs Van Toorenburg's interruption. I would appreciate it if the Minister would also deal with the questions raised during the examination of a legislative proposal. I can repeat my plea of half an hour, but I do not think you are going to approve it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u233	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u234	I therefore expect a response from the Minister, at least on the restriction of freedom of religion. If we are going to quote Mrs Van Toorenburg, she admits that this is a restriction on freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u235	It may be up to me, but I think I have explicitly mentioned the freedom of religion. In fact, I said that this was set out in the legislative proposal. So I did answer that question. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already said something about the rest in the event of interruption. In fact, the members of the House of Representatives, including Mr Kuzu, were first elected and installed. I remember that, because I came to the Chamber at the time. The political groups then concluded a coalition agreement. At that time, the chairmen of the political groups, on behalf of their group and without reservation, found that this was the coalition agreement. A cabinet has been formed. That's how it happened. That is what I wanted to say on that point. Perhaps I still have to answer the question as to what the conversation with the people with facial clothing has resulted in, because that is indeed a real question. They attached great importance to stressing that it was their choice to do so. It wasn't those I've spoken to in their perceptions forced by others. They themselves perceive it as a form of purity and religion to do so. I accept that they think so, so I'll report it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u236	The Minister says: we have neutralized it. At the same time, we know that it is aimed at a particular group in society. We have been working on this since 2005; that history has been sketched. So the minister can't get away with sec putting it neutrally in legislation. We know what this is about. We are debating exactly what this is going to solve. The Minister himself admits in the note on the report that there have been no problems in the past. Again, doesn't this reek very much of symbol legislation that doesn't solve any problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u237	I am Minister, servant of the Crown, but of course I am ultimately called upon to implement the coalition agreement concluded by Mr Kuzu and others. This means, indeed, that the present legislative proposal is not aimed at any target group, but is religiously neutral enough to see, for example, in education the face of those who participate in that education and that it is therefore not allowed to wear a balaclava, a burqa or an integral helmet. I would add that the debate often focuses on daily practice, so it is often referred to as burqa or burqa ban. For the record, it should be clear that when someone with another motive decides to cover the face, which is equally within the scope of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u238	Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u239	This is really my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u240	I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u241	However, I would like to clarify this issue of concern and specifically Article 1, third paragraph. There is an exception: the competent authority of a healthcare institution may decide whether or not someone is covered by the burqa ban at that time in order to prevent all kinds of unpleasant situations. Let me give you an example. Someone with a burqa is standing at a care facility and the secretary says, "You can come in here." It is not formally the competent authority. The doctor says: I didn't really agree on that very much, formally I can't. Does anyone have to decide for themselves what the competent authority is before this exception occurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u242	I am glad that Mrs Schouten has asked for this, because in her first term it was said something different than was intended. The law is as follows: In a care facility it is not allowed to cover the face. When people live somewhere, they are in the privacy of their own living environment. Then they must know for themselves whether they want to cover their faces in their homes, in their front gardens or even on their streets. That's the distinction. Now the question is, what do you do when someone lives in a health care facility? Is that part of living or being in the care facility? When people live permanently in a care institution, for example elderly people who need permanent care, they can do whatever they want in the residential part of that care institution. That is ultimately in the privacy of their own living environment. That could raise the question of how they walk to the cafeteria or go to the non-residential part of such an institution. Paragraph 3 states: By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authority of a healthcare institution may allow the wearing of clothes as referred to in that paragraph in the non-residential parts of the care institution by clients or patients residing there for an indefinite period of time, or their visitors. It's an exception to that rule. This is without prejudice to the fact that the people who work there, whether they are in the residential or non-residential part, should not cover the face. That's the logic that comes from the way the law is dressed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u243	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u244	Let me get this straight. At the moment that person visits a doctor in that care complex, that could be another problem in the waiting room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u245	If that is in that care complex where people live, paragraph 3 allows the competent authority to determine how it is handled. Otherwise, you can't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u246	I have something else that might shorten the second term a little bit. I may have missed the answer, but I asked a question about the use of school buildings by non-educational organisations in relation to the use by civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u247	I answered that. I said that if the building is rented out, the criterion remains the location in conjunction with the management. At a school building the location is a school and the management is at the school board. If you rent it out to the local goat breeding association for a holiday evening, the ban will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u248	Excuse me. I didn't notice that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u249	You're gonna have to keep up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u250	I'm trying to keep pace with the clock. That brings me to the amendments. I understand Mrs Voortman's consideration, but I have argued why the scope of the law is as it is and therefore also relates to education and healthcare institutions. I do not recommend its amendments to the documents. So 8 and 9. The same applies to Mr Bishop's amendment to item No. 10, which says that it should be possible, in the context of public policy, for local authority to decide in general that it cannot be done in a given area. Of course, this can be done if there is a reason to do so, i.e. in a demonstration or a risk football game. However, that is already the case. That doesn't change. However, I do not want to do it in general here, because then you will come back to a general ban on burqa for which the application can apply locally. That is not the intention of the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u251	Would you like to ask a question about an amendment by yourself, Mr Recourt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u252	No, it's Mr. Bishop's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u253	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u254	Because it's not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u255	Good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u256	I understand your hurry, Mr. Chairman. Still. The minister says it's not the intention of the law. Can we not consider that the law is higher regulation and that you cannot pass it by with lower regulation, so that a municipality cannot say: we simply call our municipality burqa-free municipalities and go a little further than the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u257	That's right. It has no legal basis. In the case of demonstrations, the legal basis can be derived from the Law on Public Events. However, this must be a manifestation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u258	My second question concerns the residential part of institutions. Do you have to be registered there as your apartment? Is it also residential if you are hospitalized for a long time? How are we going to set the line there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u259	The criterion, the law, is that there is residence if you live there. There are people who are admitted periodically, for example in the autumn because they are depressed. Then it's a temporary treatment. That's all I want to say. You're gonna have to look into the practice eventually. Theoretically, the question of whether this is a residence would be understood as referring to residence or could not be referred to the court. The criterion as it stands seems to me to be sharp. Mr Bishop, with his amendment to item No. 11 proposed to extend the ban on wearing face-covering clothing to station buildings and stations. I admit there's a choice here. You have to draw the line somewhere. The recital in the draft law, which is also as it was given in consultation, is that in many places in the country of the public road you can walk so under the station or walk the platform up and down. Then it makes sense to involve it in the public road and. The scope of the law, i.e. not allowing cover of the face in public transport, only starts with the vehicle. The criterion for this is that one can in principle avoid each other on platforms. Once you're in a coupe, you'll be transported together. If that train stops somewhere, you're gonna be sitting together like a community in that compartment. That's different from walking on the street or standing on a platform. I understand this amendment, but I would advise against it anyway. I believe that I have given an opinion to all the amendments and I will conclude with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u260	Thank you, Minister. Then this brings us to the end of the government's first term. I propose that the sitting be suspended for a dinner break, unless Members want a very short second term. I see that's the case. Then we'll just keep going. I give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya as the first speaker of the Chamber in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u261	Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to my colleagues. What strikes me is that the VVD, the PVV and the CDA are very clear about why they are in favour of this bill. They give very honestly to that face-covering clothing does not fit within our society. There are other parties who support this legislative proposal with: then we have a general standard and then there is no more discussion; then it is clear. I have looked again at what the Human Rights College says on the basis of the few things the Minister has just mentioned. It indicated: this bill is partly because there is such a discussion and see, here you have a number of things. In fact, the College says, and I quote: 'With the uniform regulation proposed in the legislative proposal, there is no room for a balance between the specific circumstances in a given situation'. In fact, the College says: leave that to us now, even if there is discussion about the clarity of the policies of organisations, then we can offer tailor-made solutions. The Minister then needed at least half an hour to answer all questions from different parties about the lack of clarity. I fear that this bill will only create further uncertainty and further procedures. This brings out very clearly the symbolic political nature of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u262	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions we have asked. I think that this debate was about the weighting of two interests: on the one hand, freedom of religion and on the other hand, the general public interest. We believe that the cabinet has carefully weighed this bill. So we can also agree to the legislative proposal. I would like to thank the Minister for looking at the aspect of care avoidance and how it develops. There may be more discussion on how the exception will apply and how it will work in practice, but this debate will also be held in other places. Maybe in the First Chamber, too, when the bill gets there. Thanks for the commitment to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u263	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. As I pointed out in the first term, we are pleased that a first step is being taken when it comes to limiting situations in which people are living in nikabs and burqas. Normal and open communication is not dealt with by nikabs and burkas. Of course, there is also a security issue. Moreover, and that is not the least point, integration stands in the way. We will support the proposal, although it is a light version of the original.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u264	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. At the heart of today's debate, when I hear the advocates and opponents like that, is the question of how far you go to individual freedom in this case to decide whether you completely cover your face. For the VVD, it is always very clear as a liberal party: your freedom ends where mine begins. As a VVD, we stand for a society in which everyone feels really protected and has equal opportunities. It's more than just identification, I say to the opponents. Moreover, when we talk about identification, we ignore the fact that there is in principle no security in healthcare, education and public transport. It's about open communication between two people, about social interaction. That means you see who's around you and what look someone has, and that if you want to talk to someone and make contact, you can also see what your words do to the other person. These face-covering clothes are at odds with what we stand for in the Netherlands. The final objective of the VVD is indeed a total ban, but we are pleased that the cabinet is taking this important step after a discussion of more than ten years. For this, the VVD is grateful to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u265	Mr. Chairman. The implementation of the law does not become clearer. On the street you can carry a burka or nikab to the door of the school, care institution or bus, but it is not allowed in there, unless it is longer stays, for example when you live in a health care institution. Then the legal prohibition doesn't apply. The Minister then piles up a lot of expectations. He expects people to stop wearing the nikab. He expects that otherwise the caregiver or teacher will appeal to people. If that doesn't happen, he expects someone else to. Otherwise, the police will show up, but that seems unlikely to him, he adds. Then how does it work? People get to wear these clothes on the street later. Is the police going to contact the healthcare provider or school in question, or does he expect the police to monitor? That clarity must be provided by the Minister in the light of legal certainty. On the other hand, this law may just as well lead to other effects, that people who are forced to wear these garments will in future be kept in custody, and that people who voluntarily claim to wear nibbles will choose to escape from society themselves. That is precisely to the detriment of participation in society. Perhaps there will be schools or general practitioners where there will be no maintenance because people there have something else to do, where nobody else will go for it, and then the police will say: we are too busy with other things. At that time we have a paper letter, one that will lead to more mistrust among those who are in favour of this ban. They'll think there's a ban, why isn't the police doing anything? You can think: well, if it doesn't mean anything in practice, then what difference does it make? Then you have a symbol law with a particularly nasty image, that of a government that wants to instruct women in certain situations what they may or may not wear. That seems to us to be contrary to our liberal western values. GroenLinks also believes that the burka and nikab hinder communication, but in practice it appears to be possible to find solutions to this problem. That is why we believe that this restriction of freedom, even when it comes to values that we do not share, goes too far. GroenLinks therefore considers a partial ban imposed by the government to be undesirable and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u266	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for the pleasant way in which the various questions were answered. It was clear and to the point. There is a proposal here that takes full account of the balance between personal freedom, which everyone has, and the guarantee of public and public interest, which you, as a society, also pursues. I think it is a good thing that there is no general ban, but that it is focused on four parts. We shall consider the first amendment that we have tabled. This also applies to our second amendment, a little by analogy with the definition of educational and health institutions, namely 'in buildings and inherits used by public transport companies'. You can't just walk into a station platform, because you have to have a valid ticket for that, for example. That also makes it possible to maintain this clearly. We are going to talk about this, but we do attach a little bit to that point, because then you have a very clear line on all four elements, those four sectors, for which it is in force. We fear that otherwise the necessary confusion may arise. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr. Chairman. If we want to live together, we also need to be able to look at each other to prevent people from disappearing from sight. The Minister has not opted for a burqa ban. He has chosen to solve practical problems in practice, because wearing a burqa in education, in health care institutions, in public transport or in public institutions is really impossible. The Minister has taken a long time, but I think he has finally come up with a wise proposal. The SP can support that. The debate was enlightening. I have heard Mr Kuzu maintain us for a long time about the horrors of a burqa ban, while he has for years signed a burqa ban. I have also heard other spokesmen criticize the ban on burqa, while it is not a ban on burqa. It is a practical solution to practical problems and we are going to support that solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u268	Mr. Chairman. The law as it stands today was literally in the coalition agreement. That law falls within all legal rules and all treaties. But, of course, there is a dilemma. Where is the border to restrict freedoms? However, that dilemma is not as great as some people are suggesting here. I liked Mr Bishop's example. He said you can't stand in your bare ass in a schoolyard, either. Everyone thinks it is obvious that we are setting limits to this, even though, of course, the opposite is the case here. Can you set limits on not being able to communicate well or barely? I think the border's been found right. Not a general ban, but if the quality of service and safety are at stake. We can support that. We thank the Minister for his commitment to our grave concern about the care. We're gonna monitor that. Practical solutions are possible. If the ban cannot be honored, I understand that the first intention is that someone should take off his burka or nikab, for example, if there are no other patients or if there are no other patients waiting with the assistant. If there is room for that, so that care is not taken, we are already largely reassured and I will advise the group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u269	Mr Bishop would never say such a thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u270	Have all of Mr Recourt's questions been answered about these uncertainties? The Minister needed a lot of words to explain how these uncertainties could be removed. I didn't learn much, but Mr Recourt did, that's how I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u271	I do, because I have asked three specific questions on the matter, and I have received three specific answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u272	You don't have to repeat it. Mrs Koşer Kaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u273	It wasn't just about the care, it was about how you deal with discussions about someone who's in the doctor's waiting room, and so on. Mr Recourt has asked many other questions about the grey area. Did he say that those questions were answered by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u274	The waiting room at the doctor's is the care. My main objection focused on the question of whether there is scope for practical solutions if there is a dilemma. That room's here. Furthermore, there are always differences of interpretation for every law. They will eventually have to be removed by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u275	Mrs Van Toorenburg does not need a second term. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u276	Mr. Chairman. We see that, despite all the objections expressed by Amnesty International, the Human Rights College, the Council of State and the burqa carriers, the Minister continues to do so. It is sad that he is restricting the constitutional freedom of religion and that he has formulated it neutrally, so it is not a restriction of the freedom of religion. I think he knows very well that that is the case. Apparently, the coalition agreement is still sacred. This is not the case when it comes to the income-dependent care premium. That is not the case when it comes to criminalising illegality. But if Muslims and a group of women are bullied, that is the case. Is this partial burqa ban a start? Are we going to have a general ban, then a headscarf ban, then a ban on Islamic education, a ban on mosques and a ban on Islam? That is the path we are taking in this country. Politics in this country is just on the wrong track. Too many political parties are chasing Geert Wilders, too many media are working on the negative image of Muslims and other Dutch. Too many Dutch view diversity as a problem and not as a force. For this reason, the debate on this bill deserves only one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the law on partial prohibition of facial covering clothing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u277	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Schouten, Mr Van Klaveren, Mr Azmani, Mr Bissschop, Mr Van Raak, Mr De Graaf, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Recourt for their support for the legislative proposal. I have three further comments to make on outstanding questions. Mrs Koşer Kaya quotes the Human Rights College, which states that if this law is passed, there will be no room for consideration. That is correct, because a clear ban has been introduced. In this way, the questions referred to are why, in one education situation, are they not and in another? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So that observation is correct. Mrs Voortman says that it would be an unclear proposal in implementation, but if I understand her correctly, she is basically against the proposal. I think that we have found a form that is as clear as a proposal can be. Indeed, it is practically limited to locations, leaving relatively little margin of discretion as to whether or not this falls within the scope of the prohibition. From the point of view of GroenLinks, which is not so far away from mine, I could have imagined that a different consideration had been made. To see just this as a restriction of freedom... I also see another side to it. Anyway, I think the arguments on that point have been exchanged. Mr Kuzu, finally, unpacks again. Preferably, everyone stands for his word and for the support given and his signature. The same applies to the coalition agreement. I'm gonna limit myself to this. The motion is a bit of a crazy motion. It proposes that the Chamber vote against the bill. You can just vote against the bill. Anyway, I'm deceiving that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u278	A brief comment, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u279	I asked one question. The Minister indicated the four stages of what would happen if the ban were not complied with. But what happens when someone says: my doctor doesn't comply with the ban and I want that to happen? Does that person have to go to the police? And what will the police do? That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u280	I think I have answered that twice. I call the steps. The first is that people will stick to it themselves. That's what you'd expect. The second is that people talk to each other about the law, which is said to be: you come into the waiting room, but do you know that's not supposed to happen? The third is that people can turn to the doctor's assistant, who organizes the place on the spot: I find it disturbing that the law is not enforced here. That is just as you can do in the case of a ban on smoking, or if someone sitting there naked, Mr Bishop, has not used the word "butt'. In such a case, you can appeal to the person who organizes the order. The fourth step is, theoretically, that someone is reporting a criminal offence. But then the question is whether the police will immediately rip off their sirens and whether, if they do, a fine will be imposed immediately. It is therefore only entirely how the police deal with such an offence in terms of priority, with a maximum fine of €410. In practice, it seems to me enough that it is a clear ban. I also assume that this will be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u281	Indeed, I was concerned about what happens the moment it comes to the police. The Minister says: I do not think that it will be dealt with immediately, and it is just the question of how all this is going to happen. That is exactly what he is saying: it may be that it is nothing in practice. But if you are in favour of this ban, then you have another law that is not being respected. It's also about the trust that can damage you with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u282	This is an odd conclusion. We have a clear law and I trust it will be respected. I also expect it to be respected. In my first term, I have given the reasons why I think that will be the case. Moreover, violation of the prohibition is punishable, not for the doctor or teacher but for those who do not comply with the law. Whether it will have to come to that in practice is verse two. That's gonna have to prove it. It seems clear as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-7.u283	We will vote on the bill and the motion tabled next Tuesday.
