ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the members of the committee and their support. Mr Koster and Mr Van Gend are also present at this debate. They're in the President's Lodge. I would also like to welcome them. Mr Koster and Mr Van Gend have acted as sounding board for the committee. That is why they are here. I give the floor to Mr Bontes. Mr Bontes' speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The results of the Schouten Committee's investigation are totally unsatisfactory. There will be no openness and one or more group chairmen who have leaked from the committee secretly will simply go free. No one in the Netherlands understands it anymore. Politicians seem to be subject to different rules than ordinary citizens. Politicians seem to be above the law. This is unacceptable. Does this committee really believe that it has gone all the way to getting the truth out of the table? Or did the committee, consisting of MPs from the Labour Party to the VVD and from the SP to the PVV, especially want to keep its own group chairmen out of the wind? For my group, a number of points remain very unclear. Why is the investigation of the Rijksrecherche not made public or made confidential for inspection? Why was there no discussion with the direct staff of the group chairmen? Why did the Bureau say in advance that the scope of the investigation should be as limited as possible, and why was the entire file not yet transferred to the Attorney General of the Supreme Court? Of course, the old legislation needs to be adapted to prevent a similar failure in the future, but there are still one or more group chairmen in this Chamber who may have committed a crime of office and simply remain as MPs. To this person or persons we say: you are a disgrace to Parliament, take responsibility, leave politics and never come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	Before you leave, Mr Bontes, Mrs Keijzer would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	I am listening in Mr Bontes' words to the frustration that I myself have, and which I believe everyone here has, about the final outcome. I am curious whether Mr Bontes has read the report of the 2010 Prinsjesdag pieces committee. It contains a very clear analysis of what is lacking in legislation. Therefore, the outcome is as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	I know that statement. Those recommendations have never really been done. Now we really need to put our hands behind us in order to optimise this ancient legislation, regulation. I will make every effort to ensure that this happens. It's all stayed down. That is a fact, but that does not alter the fact that you are left with frustration because the committee secretly leaked. That's pretty much the hardest thing you can do in Lower House if you go wrong. The way things stand today, it goes unpunished, and I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	As I have said, I share that frustration, but I also hear Mr Bontes talking about the 2010 report. I think that almost everyone who is present here was already involved in politics at the time, either personally or indirectly. Mr Bontes shares the view that we need to look at how we can change the law, and that is profit for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	That is indeed part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Leaks aren't part of politics. Lekken's a coward because it keeps politicians anonymous. It is bad for our democracy, because it allows politicians to claim anything, but we cannot control those statements. By leaking anonymously, politicians can spread half and whole untruths without having to account for them. It is also about information that journalists are not usually able to control. In recent times I have often been concerned about the many leaks here in The Hague: leaks from the cabinet, leaks from the House of Representatives and, as a momentary low point, the leaks from the committee secretly. It all began with irresponsible action by the Minister of the Interior in the Nieuwsuur TV programme, in which the minister responsible for our state security cheerfully leaked out a letter from the US secret service. He also seemed to deliberately leak wrongly, which in turn led to accusing fingers of several group chairmen and to several leaks from the committee secretly. That then led to another report, because leaks from the committee secretly are a criminal offence. After this report, the D.A. started a criminal investigation, to find out after twenty weeks that according to a law of 1855 she is not allowed to investigate any of the members of parliament. Of course, we were wondering why the committee secretly filed a complaint. The report by the Schouten Committee shows why: this leak was certainly not the first. This leak was, according to the committee, "the proverbial drop that overflows the bucket." Much more has been leaked from the committee secretly, at least one group chairman is apparently willing to commit a criminal offence in order to play political games. The committee secretly decided to report it on a subsequent occasion. That was the beginning of a political drama. According to an old law, the D.A. was not allowed to conduct an investigation, after which, according to the same law, the committee-secret had to appoint a committee of inquiry itself. However, that committee does not have the right powers to conduct a criminal investigation, which only the public prosecutor has. Then, rightly, the image arose that politicians can get away with a criminal offense. I would like to thank the Members who took part in the Schouten committee. They have taken on a difficult task, done this task very seriously and delivered a sound and enlightening report, even though of course its outcome is disappointing. The report by the Schouten Committee leaves a number of questions unanswered. For example, why did the investigation stay with the D.A.'s office for so long? However, the most important question that the Schouten Committee could not answer is: who is the leak, which political leader, someone with a great social responsibility, is prepared to commit a criminal offence in order to gain political advantage? The fact that this question could not be answered is very bad for confidence in politics. Firstly, we cannot work with an old law, which was not originally intended for MPs. Secondly, we in the House of Representatives cannot conduct a criminal investigation if we do not have the legal means to do so. Thirdly, we must amend that law as soon as possible, so that political crimes can in future simply be punished. It remains acidic, bitter and indigestible that a political leader apparently gets away with lies and deceit again. Does the Schouten Committee see any possibility of continuing the investigation? Any chance of getting the truth out of the way? Or should we accept that things are not in order, that we should make a new law as soon as possible, so that politicians can no longer hide behind anonymous leaks in the future? Actually, it's very simple. If a politician wants to tell the truth, he doesn't do it anonymously. If a MP wants to be honest, his name can just be in the paper. Lekken is not part of politics, although some politicians claim otherwise. If leaks become common, politics gets suffocated in a poisonous game. Then we'll allow lying and cheating to become the standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry for this report. We must conclude with each other that there are no sufficient grounds for the prosecution of one or more persons. That seems unsatisfactory, and that is what my two colleagues have already referred to, but it was not the committee's commitment. Let's face it. Doing research can lead to any outcome, also a result that feels disappointing, that does not match the generated or created expectation and that feels like a cold shower after the heated hype. But I'd rather have nothing than an untruthful thing. The report shows at the same time, because the members of the committee have so clearly written it down, how many obstacles were on their way and with what limitations they had to do their work. Nevertheless, they have made the best of it. In doing so, they showed that the Lower House takes its task seriously. That was the maximum achievable within the given frameworks. In times when confidence in politics and governance is under pressure and may become more and more under pressure, that is a great asset. It is not the optimum imaginable, but the maximum attainable characteristic of politics. The report also raises a number of questions with my group. Why, for example, did the Public Prosecutor's Office need about a year to decide that it was not prosecuted? Because so much time had passed, the committee of inquiry was unable to extract much more from the memories of the persons heard. That's a missed opportunity. The award by the Bureau was not clear either. The committee gives examples of this. What improvements would the Committee recommend to the Bureau, or wider, to the entire House of Representatives, for any subsequent assignment? In addition, the committee had to work with legislation that was already cited by colleagues Van Raak and Bontes, who was unclear, dated and contradictory. With a law that dates back to 1855, that's not surprising either. In the nearly 161 years that have passed since then, this law has even been amended several times, in 1886, 1929, 1998 and 2008, as you all know, of course. In the last year, the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act was made applicable to investigative powers. Ironically, therefore, one of the larger bottlenecks is precisely the newest part of the law. The Committee points out that unfortunate coincidence between the Ministerial Responsibility Act and the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act, as well as many other bottlenecks. It is therefore high time to adapt the legal framework for the prosecution of political officials. In 2010, as Mrs Keijzer said to Mr Bontes, that conclusion was already drawn as a result of the violation of the Princesdagembargo, but then nothing was done about it. Let's not make that mistake again and use this report as a basis for a new law. Can the committee make any further specific recommendations to the Chamber and the Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Trust in Dutch politics has now fallen to a sad low. That's not so crazy either. The cabinet does exactly the opposite of what the Dutch citizen wants, as witnessed, for example, the cabinet's progress towards turning the Netherlands into one large asylum-seekers centre. The report of this committee of inquiry now shows that a politician in the Netherlands can get away with leaking highly confidential information, not least from the so-called committee secret, which can only function on the basis of confidentiality. This is where a company can be run, after which the dance can be started. Explain that to the ordinary man or woman who immediately licks piece and gets a fine if he or she for example drives a little too fast. In short, it is very frustrating and very unsatisfactory that the leak has not surfaced. This committee of inquiry, which, of course, is also thanked by the PVV group for its work, has unfortunately failed, partly because of outdated laws and the lack of investigative powers. However, more information is available on this serious matter than has been shared with the Chamber and the citizen. We read in the research report that the Public Prosecutor's Office had one or more group chairmen who had telephone contact with NRC Handelsblad's journalist who was leaked. These call details, which the Committee has taken note of, shall also include the frequency and duration of the interviews. The PVV wants to have the name or names of the group chairman or group chairmen that the public prosecutor had in mind. My only question to the committee is therefore to provide this information. This is the most important point for the PVV, because it gives maximum openness and clarity. The group chairman or group chairmen can then explain here what they discussed with the reporter of NRC Handelsblad. Then we also know which of the group chairmen did not call the NRC journalist. With this openness we just become a lot wiser. This information must not be swept under the carpet. Finally, the PVV would like to stress that leaking confidential information from the committee secretly is not something. Once again, this committee can only function on the basis of confidentiality. If this confidentiality fails, and foreign intelligence services no longer have the guarantee that shared information is in safe hands here, they will not soon share anything with Dutch services again. Then the Netherlands lacks information that is essential for national security or for the security of our troops abroad, to name but a few. So anyone who leaked has thrown the safety of our country into thin air. That's why we need to get the call records I just asked for. The PVV Group is not satisfied with less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. In a short time, the committee has done a great deal of work. We would like to express our thanks for the thorough report produced by the committee. All possibilities have been examined, within the limited possibilities that the committee had. I should like to express my thanks for this thorough study. However, the SGP, like the committee, would have liked to see a better result. It is very unsatisfactory that nothing has come out that will enable the responsible or those responsible to be called upon to bear their responsibilities and to be dealt with. The SGP understands very well that the committee has done what is possible, but breach of the secrecy of office is a very serious matter. This calls for the utmost use to be made of research opportunities. That is why I still have a question for the committee. Is there really any possibility, in her opinion, of doing further research and analysing where the leak is exhausted? I'm not talking about a political trial. I'm talking about a different kind of investigation. Does the committee see any possibilities? The SGP also considers it unsatisfactory that the investigation by the Public Prosecutor lasted one and a half years. This has already been mentioned by colleagues. The conclusion was clear and simple: the Public Prosecutor's Office was not competent. The committee shares this concern, although it is said very neatly that it took a very long time and that the dossier was not pan-ready. A somewhat less parliamentary expression is a mess. But those are my words and not those of the wise committee. Couldn't the question have been answered at least a year earlier? Shouldn't the investigation, especially as far as the MPs were concerned, have been returned much earlier? Or are there any indications that the D.A. might have had more possibilities for research that were not used solely because of its political character? The committee states that there is no leak culture at the CIVD. That is an important conclusion. The fact is that the committee's confidence has been damaged and that the committee itself will have to work to restore confidence. In the meantime, it has become clear to every Member of Parliament that this standard of secrecy is extremely important. Then I come to the legislation in force. The law on ministerial responsibility is from 1855. Historically, I'm kind of attached to it. In itself, there's nothing wrong with an old law. It can be good, but of course it has to be adapted to the times and changed circumstances. At that point, the committee faced problems. The arrangements for investigating the crime are no longer up-to-date. The conclusion of the 2010 Public Secret report was already clear at that time: "However, in practice, the path of criminal prosecution, no matter how much a Member of Parliament's behaviour is punishable, is untenable'. But no one has really taken this recommendation seriously so far. It is important that the Chamber, together with the government, quickly starts to change the legislation. The SGP likes to cooperate. Among other things, the question must be raised as to whether a political order to prosecute rather than by the Public Prosecutor is still in place. It is also necessary to clarify how the relationship between the political task of the Chamber and the government and the investigative task of the National Criminal Court and the Public Prosecutor is interrelated. The SGP would like to see a Court ruling calling on the government to come forward quickly with proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	I note to all the speakers so far that we all have the problem that we want more research but we do not know how. We do not want a political leader to get away with this kind of behavior, especially when it comes to the committee-sneaky, i.e. secrets. So I'm really looking for how we could do that. I don't think we can conduct a criminal investigation in public. That is also one of the reasons why the application of the powers of the parliamentary inquiry was a problem. But what are the possibilities? When I think, I see the High Council and the secret services. What kind of bodies would Mr Bishop consider appropriate to carry out such a follow-up investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you for this question. That is actually exactly the question I am asking the committee. Like Mr Van Raak, I would like to ask what else you can do to bring such a fact to the table. I don't really have an answer to that right now. The committee states that within the given legal possibilities it has done what it could. It is, and it deserves to be appreciated. My question is as follows. If, with this in mind and with this experience, she would reflect once again on what is needed in instrumentaries to be able to act adequately against a, hopefully not appropriate, case, because is that her answer? I am therefore very curious to hear that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	So do I, and I can tell that this is Chamberwide. I think there are some thoughts within the committee, which I am very curious about. In this case, it is about the committee secretly, about state secrets. If you're leaking state secrets, the only way to really investigate is to let the secret services do this. Would that be an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	For me, those kinds of options are absolutely negotiable. Especially when it comes to state secrets, you quickly run the risk that state security is at stake. Then it would indeed be appropriate to involve the secret services. So it could be a road, but I would also like to hear the committee's reflection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	An image is being created of a rather sloppy handling of political group chairmen with the secrecy, especially towards their own employees, informers and personal assistants. How does Mr Bishop appreciate this process, particularly in the light of the fact that we take others rather seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is the responsibility of every Member of Parliament and, in this case, of all the chairmen of the political groups to deal with it with extreme restraint. That can be expected from them. It's also a matter of professionalism. In such an investigation, we would not like it to be limited to the direct circle of group chairmen in this case. It should also focus on the circles around it, because that may also be where the leak is, precisely because perhaps a remark has been made that something has been placed on the table negligently, which will lead a life of its own. You really need detective work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	Does Mr Bisschop agree with me that if people are doing so sloppyly as some might do, so if they are dealing so loosely with information that staff in the immediate vicinity get that information, this could already be regarded as a civil servant? In this respect, I would also refer to the fact that people who leak from the trust committee are condemned for this, a committee with a lower but comparable confidential status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	That is not so much a state secret; it has more to do with the fact that you have been kept secret. What exactly is the status to give to the forms of breach of confidentiality? In this respect, you can make a difference. It will have to be worked out in the context of the updating of the legislation on this issue. I would like to think about that; I do not already have a concrete position on this. However, I fully agree with Mr Houwers that this is a criminal offence as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would also like to thank the Schouten Committee for its work over the last three months. In a very short period of time, it has tried to find out whether there are sufficient grounds for prosecution following the declaration of leaks from a private meeting of the Intelligence and Security Services Commission. The VVD Group also thanks the committee for the answers to the questions raised in connection with the report by the Schouten Committee. Members of the House of Representatives, but also other political ministers, can only do their work seriously and credible if there is no leaking, not from the House of Representatives and certainly not from the CIVD. If this is to happen, we will need appropriate legislation and regulations that will allow the prosecution of political officials. Political ministers who violate official secrecy must be able to be traced and prosecuted. From this conviction, the outcome of the work of the Schouten Committee is frankly frustrating. The conclusion concludes two things: Firstly, the Committee has found no facts or circumstances that lead to a reasonable suspicion of the guilt of one or more persons of deliberately violating the confidentiality of the Committee for the Intelligence and Security Services, the CIVD, the Secret Committee. This lacks sufficient grounds for prosecution. The leak won't come up. Secondly, the current legal procedure appears to be an inaccessible path. The D.A. wasn't authorized to complete the investigation. It took a long time before the investigation was handed over to the House of Representatives. The committee had a short time for further investigation. The committee did not have adequate investigative powers. And the legislation the committee had to deal with was unclear, dated and contradictory. This outcome is frustrating, because the question of who might have leaked from the CIVD remains unanswered. The Schouten Committee also regrets the latter. There is, therefore, only one solution, namely to adapt the laws and regulations governing the criminal activities of political officials as soon as possible. That is what we owe to ourselves. I have a question for the committee on this point. I know that this question is officially outside her remit, but I am still curious about the answer. A number of other colleagues have already referred to it. The committee is an expert in experience, after the investigation it has had to carry out. It has been confronted with a legal framework which appears to be contradictory, outdated and complex. What should be done, in general terms, in the Committee's view, and at what time, to modernise legislation and regulations? We had a chance in 2010, but we missed that opportunity. At that time, the report on Public Secret already recommended that efforts should be made to modernise legislation allowing ministers, State Secretary and MPs to be prosecuted for criminal offences. With the report of the Schouten Committee in hand, we now have the opportunity to speed up the legislative changes that allow the prosecution of political officials. Let us now move quickly on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	I thought that was what Mrs Thieme wanted to interrupt, but she walked to the chair for her contribution. I call Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are once again debating openly the secret committee, a committee so secret that even a parliamentary committee of inquiry does not find out who leaked from the secret committee. A crime of office to which the Rijkscrimony investigated first, without result, and to which a parliamentary committee of inquiry subsequently did, also without result. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the committee for its work. It is a testament of inability and above all proof that the committee secretly does not fit in with a transparent parliamentary democracy. The systematic secrecy between the Cabinet and the Chamber undermines not only the confidence in parliamentary democracy but also the freedom of action of the Chamber. At present, virtually all group chairmen participate in the committee secretly. I am the only group chairman who does not visit the committee secretly in principle and on principle. Of course, the Chamber may exceptionally, and at the request of its members, be kept confidential if circumstances so require, but the systematic secrecy between the Cabinet and the Chamber undermines the confidence in the Chamber as the highest authority. Freedom of action is also at stake. The cabinet can silence the Chamber via the committee secretly on important issues by declaring subjects that are discussed in committee secretly on its initiative. It is the duty of a representative of the people to gather and share information wherever necessary, even as a cabinet that does not want to share information. A member of parliament must be able to request information from the cabinet at any time. Only in this way can a representative of the people exercise the full control role. The duty of silence about secret information provided by the Cabinet prevents that. Last summer Mr Wilders was so shocked by a statement in committee that he decided to put forward an enigmatic motion on this subject with a view to an important policy change of which he was not allowed to interpret its nature and character because of the obligation of secrecy. Even now that the committee has been leaked, it becomes clear how uncomfortable the handling of unpleasant secrets must be for group chairmen. More than the question of where the leak is in the current issue, the question of how long the Chamber will allow itself to be silenced by a structural duty of silence by secrecy with the cabinet must be discussed. Secretly widening the gap between citizen and politics. Sneaking the people's representatives out of the woods. Sneaky attacks on the principles of the rule of law. After all, if someone leaks from the committee and therefore commits a criminal offence, prosecution must take place through fellow Members of Parliament. The case must then be assessed by the Supreme Court and no appeal is possible. Sneaky isn't like this anymore. It is therefore desirable that the committee should be lifted secretly. I would like to table a motion on this in the second term. I would argue that we no longer have systematically closed doors to matters that cannot bear the light of day. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	I can go very far with Mrs Thieme. I also always look surprised at the annual reports of the committee secretly. Nine out of ten topics.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Also the massive sharing of information about Dutch citizens with the American secret services, the reason for the drama we are discussing today, is a subject that I do not think should have been raised there. I'm also looking for a way to shape it better in the future. If, for example, there is a threat of an attack somewhere and the government feels the need to inform the Chamber, I think there must be a place, a committee secretly, where that information can be shared. This is the case when all kinds of military cases suddenly appear on the streets or all kinds of situations are taking place that the Chamber should be informed about. It's about things you can't discuss in public. With a view to the future, we could look at a committee sneaking together only when it is necessary, rather than a committee in which, as is now apparent from the annual reports, all kinds of political issues are discussed that do not belong there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	I am very open to occasional confidential information, for example at the request of the Chamber or because the Cabinet indicates that it would like to share with the Chamber something that cannot be shared in public. It is important, however, that the spokesmen who know all the ins and outs surrounding a particular file, such as the security spokesperson, should be able to obtain that information. Now there is the strange situation that a group leader knows something about secret services while the spokesman on secret services does not have that information. There's a duty of silence. Then you get a not well-informed Chamber that is not sufficiently able to judge whether the cabinet is making the right decisions. I think it would be a good idea to fill this issue in at a professional level, so that it is not systematically group chairmen who are informed about all kinds of matters, but that, above all, the spokesmen are involved. Let us look at that, but a committee sneak is really not of this time anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying it the way it is. Here's a frustrated person. I can imagine that this applies to more people, especially the members of the Committee of Inquiry headed by Carola Schouten. Thank you to all Members for their extensive and careful research. It is a unique thing: to initiate a criminal investigation into a criminal offence committed by one or more members of parliament. In itself, that is justified. The Dutch must abide by the law. The same applies, of course, to MPs. As we know by now, the outcome of the study is crystal clear, but therefore no less disappointing. Given the limited legal possibilities, the Committee could not identify one or more suspects, as referred to in Article 27 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This requires that there are facts or circumstances that lead to a reasonable presumption of guilt of a criminal offence. That crime is there. There has been a leak, but it was not possible to actually identify concrete facts or circumstances that could be traced back to one or more suspects. The legal possibilities are simply insufficient. The Committee regrets that it has not been possible to find out the truth behind the breach of the confidentiality of the Committee for the Intelligence and Security Services, the CIVD, also known as the committee secretly. It is very regrettable that this has not been done, but the report and the answers to the questions are crystal clear. The recommendation to renew this procedure of persecution by the Chamber should be taken up. This is already stated in the 2010 Public Secret Report. We can all take care of that. If a majority of the Chamber is of that opinion, the Chamber should take steps towards a legislative amendment, so that this incorruptible course of action can no longer be achieved in the future and so that proper investigation can be carried out, allowing you to find the truth. Given the research now, does the committee have any ideas on how to better organise this? There are all kinds of possibilities conceivable, for example by the D.A., but are there any other variants? I would like a response from the committee to make this debate useful for the future and to draw lessons from it. In theory, this debate could lead to a burden being placed on the Attorney General of the Supreme Court to prosecute. Is this true? Does the committee share the view that, despite the frustration, this would be strange, given the results of the investigation? After all, there is no specific suspect, no name. What would this look like in practice? Would that mean that all interviewees should be nominated? I'd like a response. Finally, in view of the above, I would appreciate it if the committee could share a little more of the inner findings, precisely because of the lessons for the future mentioned. Why, for example, did the prosecution's investigation take so long before it was transferred to the Chamber? That question is particularly interesting, if there was any doubt at the time of making a declaration to the D.A. about its own powers of investigation. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. These are bad times for trust in politics. The issue surrounding the missing receipt at the Justice Department is a painful example of this and the investigation into the leak at the CIVD and the reporting on it perhaps even more. The Chamber had to investigate a possible offense of one or more cabinet members and some of its own members. It had to do so with an incomplete toolbox. The butcher who approves his own flesh is still a mild expression. Turns out the butcher's only allowed to use a bone knife. What amazes 50PLUS in particular is the ambiguity of the report. On the one hand, the committee indicates that it does not have sufficient resources. On the other hand, it is concluded that there is no reasonable presumption of guilt. If there were insufficient instruments available, no firm conclusion of value can by definition be drawn. It's like organizing a children's journey through a legal-political jungle. That is not going to work, of course, and the committee knew that. That is why, in my view, the frustration of reporting and answering the questions is dripping away. Why didn't the committee refuse to draw any conclusions? Why didn't she say: with these resources, we can't be credible in finding the truth? Why have not all the available resources been used? Why was it no longer used under oath, which was indeed possible? Are there any other instruments that have not been fully used? Why was the Secretary of Defense, who was present, not heard? Why didn't she get involved in the preliminary interviews? Why did the Public Prosecutor's Office transfer the file to the Chamber, now that it appears that the Committee cannot even establish any suspicion of guilt? Then what did the D.A. find? What came out of the analysis of the call records? The committee cannot and will not say anything about this, but how should we proceed? How do we remove suspicion? What we now have is unsatisfactory. I understand very well that people at home suspect another cover-up. Who's gonna take the initiative to change the law? It is our responsibility, in the interests of our own credibility and in the interests of everyone who works here that the first steps are already taken in this cabinet period. That is why we must be very quick. It seems to be a matter of days rather than months. Finally, it seems that the indirect leaking has also been deliberately or unconsciously not investigated or hardly investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u27	I share Mr Krol's frustration when it comes to not getting the leak out. We are in complete agreement on this point. I also heard Mr Krol say the word "doofpot." My question to Mr Krol is therefore: does he agree with the conclusion that the committee has really used all the legal means at its disposal to get the leak over the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u28	I doubt that very much. I've been talking to a former Vice President of the court for a long time this weekend. He said, "I wish I'd given that order." I would have assured you that the leak had come up. He too would have done so by legal means. I am very sorry that no one in the country understands it at all. That is bad for our credibility and we must do everything we can to remove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u29	However, I would like to draw Mr Krol's attention to the report, in which it is argued very carefully, by section, which legal instruments the committee had at its disposal. I call it hearing under oath, for example. That was an option, but the information obtained under oath cannot then be used in criminal proceedings. That is why it has not been done. This has been the case on a point-by-point basis: what do we want, what are the legal possibilities and what steps can we take next? I am very curious to know who Mr Krol has been talking to, but I am convinced that this committee has used all the instruments at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u30	If that is the case, then this committee could have said: we cannot get away with this, we will give the order back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u31	I am curious to see what instruments Mr Krol sees to actually get to that investigation that leads to one or more concrete suspects. Mr Krol thinks that this can be done. It is important for all of us to know how.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u32	Unfortunately, this is not possible with the current rules. That is precisely the unsatisfactory thing. When I hear outsiders say: I could have done it, I am ashamed that we didn't succeed. This means that we have not done enough to change the law since 2010. Hence my call to change something about that as the weather.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u33	Then I fully understand Mr Krol. He is convinced that the current rules cannot do so. From the person who says he could have done it, Mr Krol also says that he does not think so, but that the law needs to be amended. I share that because otherwise, if this were to happen again, we will never come to a proper investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u34	I will explain it again: I am not convinced of it and I am afraid of it. If an outsider says he would have found out with his legal knowledge, I'm ashamed we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then I repeat my first question: what instruments are these? Mr Krol says that there are instruments that could have been used. What instruments are these? If you read the documents of both the committee and the committee Prinsjesdag pieces from 2010, the conclusion is that there are no such instruments. Mr Krol is now saying something else. Then I would also like to hear from him in a very specific way, because it is a serious matter, which instruments the committee could have used in order to make a presentation to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u36	That is the indirect instrument of saying: we cannot do this, we return the order. We would all be sitting here with the problem and then we would have to come up with a solution. For the people at home, that would have been a lot more pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u37	Who is this outsider Mr Krol is talking about? I'm curious about that. Mr Krol is now defending with someone who could not have done what these six colleagues could have done within the existing 1855, combined with parliamentary powers of inquiry. The reason for this has also been made clear. Who's that brilliant outsider who could have done this? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u38	Why don't we take a really good look at what I just said? I just said I talked to a former Vice President of a courthouse this weekend. He said if you'd given me the order, I'd have found out. I didn't say he would have found out. But he's convinced he found out. If someone with years of experience in this field says so, he will probably not say so for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u39	I am glad that Mr Krol has so much faith in that person and that he has so little confidence in the committee that has had to work with inadequate opportunities. But that's his right. But who is that person who said that, with the knowledge and possibilities he can see well, he could have solved this? I'm just curious about that. Mr Krol likes openness. He's the guy who says we should be open to each other. Just say that name, and maybe we can do something with that! In formal terms, the Chamber has the opportunity not to follow the committee's advice and to make a different choice. Perhaps Mr Krol is the one who can set that in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'd be happy to do that in confidence, but not here where the whole population can look, without that person giving me permission to mention his name. I'm not gonna stand here and leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u41	I respect that. I do not call that leaks, but Mr Krol's association with that person is correct. I hope that Mr Krol will give some thought to the confidence he creates in an anonymous person versus the mistrust he creates in a committee of the Chamber. Those two don't seem quite balanced to me. I hope that Mr Krol can take steps to ensure that what he wants actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u42	At least that person isn't anonymous to me. I did not talk about 'disloyal' either, but about the fact that this is an extremely sad display that will not help people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. Frustration, incomprehension and possibly a cover-up. I think those words live with all of us. When I look at the results of the Committee of Inquiry, made up of the CIVD groups, where the small groups are excluded, I get the very idea of 'we of toilet duck approve toilet duck' and you know what follows. Incomprehension about the outcome, but also about the way things are going, because I remain open to a number of questions. The first question is: why was a senseless report made? Pointless, because apparently at the beginning it was already known that it could actually lead to nothing, given the legal advice and a while of reflection. Why was it registered by the authorised representative? And was the agent authorized? Have the Vice-President of the House and the Minister of Justice been kept informed in the interim, as the Minister has mentioned in other cases? So that happened before November 11th, too? Is the D.A.'s step to do something based on De Telegraaf's questions? Why are the group chairmen being protected a little when they are very sloppy about the secrecy? That's a question, isn't it? Is it the case that now, as it were, a group chairman is hanging on the string of a journalist, because he shares a secret with the journalist? These are questions which concern me and which I would like an answer to. All in all, I come to the conclusion that a criminal offense apparently pays off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. The Schouten Committee had the complicated task of investigating the leaks from the CIVD, the committee secretly. It is very important for the functioning of that committee that the confidentiality of the debate is also guaranteed. Leaks aren't one of them. In presenting the report, Mrs Schouten indicated that the result of her hard work was unsatisfactory. The leak wasn't found. I note, however, that this was not up to the committee. It has tried, by all means possible, to get the truth out of the table. It is unclear whether the quote really comes from Albert Einstein, but some say he said about scientific research: if we knew exactly what we were doing, then it was not called research. The same applies to the research work of this committee. The committee had to find its own way through very dated nineteenth-century legislation, and it had to take a path that no one had gone on since that time. She did that very well. I would like to thank the committee for this, as well as for its solid and comprehensive support for the conclusions. The report thus provides an excellent basis for tightening up procedures in the future. Before I go into that further, I would first like to ask the committee about the possibilities of the prosecution. The file remained there for 20 months, especially at the college, while the legal room was searched for. Following information from De Telegraaf, a decision was taken on this subject quite suddenly. However, it has been argued in recent days that the Public Prosecutor's Office should have made more inquiries into parliamentary offences, only the prosecution decision is reserved for the Lower House according to these speeches. What does the committee think of this distinction between detection and prosecution? In the opinion of the committee, could the prosecution have investigated the matter more thoroughly, at least until a specific suspect came up, or was it not legally possible? Then the sequel. The committee has made it very clear that the legislation on the basis of which it had to work has not been very useful. There is nothing wrong with the basic idea that the separation of powers requires a special procedure for criminal proceedings, but the procedures clearly no longer meet the requirements of this time. In this case, it was a mission impossible to find a suspect. I think the Chamber should look at itself in that too. Why did we not do anything about the 2010 recommendations to modernise the procedures? The result is that we have sent a committee out with an impossible task. Not a pretty picture, but in any case: it has happened and it has produced a detailed report of an unsatisfactory search. That makes the report very valuable. As I said, the committee's monks' work provides an excellent basis for the rapid modernisation of procedures. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the principles of the old law on separation of powers and new and modern procedure must be used. I propose to the Chamber to ask the Cabinet to take charge of it. It is, of course, important that the Lower House, and also the Upper House, are properly involved, from the moment the first guiding choices for a legislative proposal are made. Once again, I would like to thank the Schouten committee. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the committee has produced a sound and educational research report. My group fully supports the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by saying a word of thanks to the committee. It is clear that it did not go well with the secrecy committee at the time. The Schouten Committee rightly concludes that. Despite careful research, it has unfortunately not become clear how that could have happened. It should be possible to rely on the fact that information that is confidential remains genuinely confidential. As far as the PvdA is concerned, there is therefore no need to repeat what has happened in the Committee on Intelligence and Security. The report by the Schouten Committee also shows that the legal procedure in the event of breach of confidentiality by holders of a public office does not now provide a sufficient legal framework. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. A number of years ago, the De Wijkerslooth Committee already stated that the existing legislation on the prosecution of criminal offences by directors and MPs had to be brought to justice. In particular, the Ministerial Responsibility Act, with rules for investigation and prosecution, is outdated. That law dates back to 1855. The law is outdated, unclear and now contradicts newer legislation, for example the Parliamentary Survey Act. State law scholars had already concluded that. Nothing has been done with this recommendation from the 2010 De Wijkerslooth Committee. That is what previous speakers have rightly said. For the first time, the Schouten Committee has therefore actually come across this in practice. The PvdA therefore supports the committee's recommendation that legislation on this issue should now really be modernised. We propose that the government be asked to come up with a proposal together with the representatives of the Upper House and the Lower House. What's confidential must remain confidential. Let's learn from this incorruptible thing. Let it also be clear that this should not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands an unwritten administrative rule applies. If you want to buy time, you set up a commission or get an investigation. That buys us time. On the Internet, civilians played Cluedo and tried to find the leak themselves. But politics The Hague held itself over its head three months ago by setting up a committee of inquiry. Politics The Hague, that's us, that's no one else. There have been harsh words today, but at least one person in our midst is a liar and an impostor. That's bad. What is the signal that The Hague is sending with this? If a politician leaks secrets and commits an offense, he walks. But if a citizen can't show his ID, he has to come straight to the police station. That is the double measure that is measured, which we of DENK are so fiercely fighting. After the program "Holland's next President of the Chamber," the House of Representatives is now the setting for "Who is the mole?" But finding the mole in The Hague is difficult. 'Cause what did we do? We set up a pacifier committee; I'm sorry I have to put it this way. We knew three months ago that the committee did not have the powers to find the mole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr Kuzu, this is not a football committee. This is a committee set up by the Chamber. I'd appreciate it if you could speak with respect about the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr President, I know that a large part of the Chamber wanted to set up a committee. We were against it from the start. The committee itself calls its assignment a "mission impossible." The only thing the committee has gained is three months' time for the mole. One delicious is covered by seven delicacies. What does this do with citizens' confidence in politics? As far as DENK is concerned, this case must be referred to the Supreme Court immediately. That should have happened a long time ago. This scandal is huge among the population. Citizens often react to this sneaky case by saying that school pupils had to voluntarily report themselves when injustice had been committed, otherwise the whole class would be punished. It also works that way in the army. As long as the unsub doesn't come forward, his entire battalion will be punished. In fact, I would like to propose in this Chamber that all Members' salaries should be suspended until the mole has volunteered. If the leak comes forward, the sentence will come naturally. There is no place for such a person in politics. That person will disappear by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Schouten committee for all its work. It was a very special assignment, referring to an article of law from 1855. It has been a search for the completion of the commission's mission. The committee writes about this in detail. Leaks from the Intelligence and Security Services Committee is a serious matter. GroenLinks believes that openness should be the norm, but if something is shared in confidence, it should also remain confidential. However, what is shared in confidence must also be truly confidential information. I'll get back to you on that. The committee couldn't figure out who leaked out of the CIVD. That is unsatisfactory. Many speakers have already said that. We wholeheartedly support this. We have also been too long on our square kilometer from The Hague to the game "Who did it?" This is the way to play, without an outcome, while at the same time many other very important themes deserve our attention. This applies not only to the fact that the committee has not been able to find out the truth, but also to the process that preceded it, which is now leading to this debate. For example, the Committee points out the long period that the public prosecutor needed to conclude that it was not a matter of popularity. Couldn't that conclusion have been reached more quickly by the D.A.? Could this perhaps have made parliamentary research more effective than it was today, for example because there was a little more reminder of facts? Would it at least have been a less dragging issue? Would the committee like to respond to these questions? The report does not actually contain explicit recommendations, but the Committee does clearly outline the imperfection of the current legal instruments to prosecute political officials. She refers to a recommendation from the Public Secret report, which has been on the shelf for six years. It is time to work on that recommendation. This has been said by several speakers. We wholeheartedly agree to ask the Cabinet to come forward with proposals to modernise the legislation allowing ministers, State Secretary and MPs to be prosecuted for criminal offences. Not only should the law be modernised, but also our definition of what is secret and should remain secret as far as GroenLinks is concerned. GroenLinks wants more openness and transparency than is currently the case. What is really state secret must remain state secret, but anything that is or should not be real must be public. A good discussion on what is covered by that definition would be in place. This could also strengthen confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u50	The debate on the report of the Committee of Inquiry will continue tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. Then it is up to the committee to answer the questions.
