ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u1	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Van Veldhoven is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u2	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm expecting my colleague Kees Verhoeven. I'll see if I can speed up his coming to this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u3	I hope he realizes that we're all waiting for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. I apologize for walking in a little later. I'll file my motion first, so I don't go over time. We have just had an AO on the Informal General Affairs Council. As a result, I shall put the next motion to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not sufficiently clear whether, in the implementation of the EU-Turkey deal, both parties fully fulfil the conditions laid down;]] [[Calls on the Government to invite the President of the European Council to convene an extraordinary European summit in the short term to discuss the implementation of the EU-Turkey deal;]] [[calls on the Government to call for the suspension of the implementation of the EU-Turkey deal until all (international) conditions are met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Klaver and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u5	I tabled this motion because of disturbing reports following the entry into force of the Turkey deal. Refugees would be shot at. The Director of the European UNHCR has indicated that 13 individual asylum applications have not been properly completed. The Minister did respond, but a final story remained out. Nor has he asked Turkey for clarification on the shelling, nor has he launched an independent investigation. The Minister asked the Commission to investigate the Turkish violation of the principle of non-refoulement, but it remains unclear whether all refugees deployed to Turkey have had individual treatment. Individual treatment is, of course, crucial, because it is included in the treaties. My group is not yet sufficiently convinced that everything within the current deal is in line with human rights, as forced by the Chamber by motion. We therefore believe that we should table this motion despite the fact that the Minister has already dealt with a number of issues in this afternoon's AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you very much. I'll see if the minister can answer right away. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u7	I am happy to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for the motion tabled on behalf of Mrs Gesthuizen, Mr Klaver and Mr Voordewind. We have indeed had discussions on this matter this afternoon. I would advise against this motion for a number of reasons. I myself had the impression that, for Mr Verhoeven, it was not convincing enough that on a number of points raised, in fact all of them, there was an answer concerning the international legal guarantees of sending people back to Turkey. I reported exactly how that works this afternoon. Migrants are informed about their right to asylum. If they indicate that they wish to make use of this, they will be included in the Greek asylum procedure. This means that an individual examination of the application by the authorities, the possibility of appeal against the decision of the Greek authorities, access to a court and legal assistance by a lawyer and individual review by the judge or the appeal of the individual migrant cannot be declared admissible. I've told you how that works now. I also said that only people who did not want to apply for asylum have been returned. So no people are being sent back outside the international conventions. Last Tuesday, during Question Time, I discussed in detail the statements relating to Amnesty International's report. It is not right that I did not answer the questions relating to shelling. Of course, it is essential that implementation is carried out on the basis of international conventions, which is why I am going to Greece and Turkey tomorrow with a number of ministers to look closely at this. However, I have no reason not to believe in that. I have also been given assurances that this is the case. I therefore see no need to ask the President of the European Council to convene an extraordinary European summit in the short term. For the first time in time, there have been no drownings. In this sense, the human rights situation has improved considerably, precisely because of this action. The first Syrians, mainly families, have been transferred to the Netherlands in a safe and legal way for resettlement. I would therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u9	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-10.u10	I thank the Minister. I propose that we vote on the motion tabled this evening.
