ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u1	If he has stopped his phone, Mr Van Gerven has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of a number of laws to achieve two things: structural regulation of the funding of anonymous e-mental health and the possibility of anonymous funding of care to seriously threatened persons. Those are two topics you can't oppose. However, you may wonder whether this amendment of the law will solve the problem in a structural way. According to the SP, the problem is much greater than just the funding of anonymous e-mental health. The problem lies in the current healthcare system of competition between providers and the financing per operation. This care system must be able to justify every minute, leading to bureaucracy and mistrust towards the care professional. As a result, people's privacy is constantly under pressure. A dbc already contains a lot of information, namely about the treatment, the condition, the duration of treatment and so on. Shouldn't care just always be privacy proof? If so, isn't that anonymous e-health just unnecessary? For example, in the current legislative proposal on the electronic patient file, you must always give prior consent to the exchange of your medical data via the national switching point. As the Minister postpones the operation of the amendment that regulates this, the question arises as to whether this will lead to more or less need for anonymous assistance. I'd like to get an answer from the Minister. Already before the transfer of mental health care from the AWBZ to the Health Insurance Act in 2008, the SP warned about uncertainties, bureaucracy and scaling up. She also pointed out the patient's position. This transfer also meant a reduction in solidarity. After all, the AWBZ was a public insurance with a contribution tax according to capacity and the Health Insurance Act is not. The right to care is regulated, but the element of competition between the different health insurers and between the different healthcare providers is also included. However, the transfer is still ongoing. Since the Health Insurance Act requires that care can be traced back to an individual insured person, the financing of anonymous interventions in the field of e-mental health is no longer possible. For the transfer to the Health Insurance Act in 2008, it was agreed that a treatment could take place on the basis of a budget. After the transfer, funding via the service budget component was still possible, but with the expiry of this budget component by 2013 and the introduction of incentive payment, budgeted providers are no longer able to pay. The Minister himself writes this in the explanatory statement. With the present amendment of the law, the Minister says he will respond to a motion from the SP from 2007. Yes, it is. 2007. Eight or almost nine years ago, my then colleague, Mr van Velzen, already called on the government to identify the bottlenecks surrounding Internet treatment and to see if an anonymous directive is possible. Are all these problems actually being resolved, as the Minister claims to do? I have doubts about that. First of all, I have doubts about the feasibility of the present plan. That's for two reasons. Firstly, how can healthcare providers demonstrate that anonymity is really necessary for psychological reasons? Secondly, why is it that an annual subsidy period has been chosen, which nevertheless entails a great deal of unnecessary bureaucracy? Let me start with that last one. I would ask the Minister, for example, to set the subsidy period to three years. In this way, the bureaucracy involved in the annual contract can be reduced. I have a motion on that in mind. My first point was about the burden of proof for healthcare providers with regard to the anonymity necessary for psychological reasons. How are healthcare providers going to prove that this is the case? The VVD asked for this, like the SP, but I did not find the Minister's answer satisfactory. Instead of providing a solution, the Minister simply states that healthcare providers have to demonstrate how they do it. However, by placing the problem with the healthcare providers and by throwing it over the fence, as it were, it has not been solved. Doesn't this mean that the Minister is putting care providers on an impossible task? Does it not create more bureaucracy for healthcare providers? Doesn't she create a paper reality like that? If you, as a client, know that care is free when you fill in that anonymity is necessary for psychological reasons, then just check it, I'd say. That does not feel easy as far as the SP is concerned. So I ask the Minister once again: how are the healthcare providers going to prove that anonymity is really necessary for psychological reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u3	It is right for Mr Van Gerven to point out effectiveness. The VVD has also asked the necessary questions about this. I'll come back to that later. However, I do wonder the following. On the one hand, Mr Van Gerven points out that it is not clear what the effectiveness of what the providers offer is. On the other hand, he proposes to give suppliers a three-year period. If you don't know about effectiveness, isn't it much wiser to have that term for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u4	In my speech so far, it was mainly about anonymity: how should you prove that the care can only be delivered anonymously? Your question as to whether that care works, which you rightly claim, is another. I just haven't addressed that issue in my speech yet. My speech was mainly about anonymity: how can the healthcare provider prove that it has to go down that road alone and that it has to be completely anonymous? There is also the question of effectiveness. Of course, care must be effective, but I do not think answering that question depends on using a three-year grant period or one year. A healthcare provider or an aid provider must provide state-of-the-art care. This must be monitored by the Health Inspectorate and, where appropriate, the Health Institute must play a role; these bodies are involved. I think this should be separated from the direct grant application. My plea is to grant the grant for a number of years so that there is rest on that front. It concerns a limited number of providers and relatively small amounts, as we have read in the proposals. That's my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr Van Gerven can take it down as a relatively small amount, but it still adds up to 2 million. That's serious money, I think. In this sense, I am surprised that Mr Van Gerven does not link the content of what is offered with the duration of the contract. When you don't know how good the care is, isn't it weird that you're gonna keep doing that for over a year? In fact, if it doesn't work, you need to get rid of it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u6	Let me make a comparison with the contracts with hospitals, about which there is a lot of discussion. Because the need for this is very strong, multi-annual contracts are increasingly being concluded. In this way, an organisation that provides assistance knows what it can expect, for example, from resources to provide care. This is independent of the general question that each institution is supposed to offer quality. The SP considers that the task of guaranteeing quality is not so much invested with the health insurance provider as it belongs more to the professional groups themselves who have to check each other's health care systems and supervisory bodies, such as the inspection. Mr. Chairman. My specific question to the Minister is whether the subsidy period of one year can be extended to, for example, three years, also in order to reduce administrative burdens and to reduce business uncertainty. A key question is whether it is not an idea to invest the grants at the Healthcare Institute. In doing so, we have also made a profit in terms of anonymity. If the subsidy flow were to go through the Healthcare Institute, we would be rid of individual accountability. After all, on the basis of individual accountability and declaration, anonymity is at stake, I am referring, for example, to the category of persons at risk. Wouldn't it be a solution to invest that at the Healthcare Institute? I'm here to talk to you about the seriously threatened clients. You have to think of girls who have become victims of honour vengeance or pimp boys. Because the funding of their care is not anonymous, such girls may end up in a life-threatening situation. For example, such a girl goes into hiding at a place where she receives care, but the bill goes to the health insurance company, which makes it possible to find out where she is staying. So there could be a leak. My question is whether that perception is correct; I think I read this in the documents as well. It is clear that there really should be no traceability for those who are evil-minded. Can the Minister point that out again? She herself says that it goes well in nine out of ten cases, but of course we are concerned with the one case where it is not going well. After all, you will only be that tenth that is threatened with death or whatever. That's not acceptable. I would therefore like to receive a response from the Minister: have we understood this correctly from the documents? It says that the health insurance companies have complied with the fact that the protection regime is in force, but the question is whether it is sufficiently effective and whether it is sufficiently effective. Another remark by the Minister on whom we are concerned concerns the system of monitoring and security, the SBB of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The question is how long it takes for people to be included in the SBB if that is at issue and how anonymity is guaranteed. We understand from the Minister's answers that anonymity is not guaranteed. However, it is stated that attempts are being made to apply the anonymity retroactively from the moment when the woman has disappeared from the sight of her killer, but I do not find that reassuring. So I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. Hence my previous question as to whether, in view of the functioning of the protection regime of health insurers and the lack of guarantees that threatened clients will always be included in the system on time, it is not better to have that funding run through the Health Institute. We do the same for illegal immigrants and asylum seekers. Then the health insurance companies can just get out. So I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I'm considering tabling a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. "Care for the mind costs the most," notes the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment in its latest study of disease costs. The cost of depression and anxiety disorders has more than doubled in the last ten years. The cost of addiction has almost quadrupled. The number of people receiving help over the Internet has tripled in recent years. The latter is a good development in terms of costs, because treatment via the Internet is cheaper. The PVV is therefore in principle in favour of e-mental health. This is particularly true of the seriously threatened people. We still have a few questions about the grant of anonymous e-mental health to non-seriously threatened persons. "Anonymous" means: free care, no vision of quality or effectiveness and no control of the declarations. The Minister writes in the explanatory statement that anonymous e-mental health is necessary because patients could avoid care out of shame. I am surprised that the Minister does not regard care as a problem out of shame, but do not avoid it out of lack of money, and that while there are now several studies showing that care avoids because of the high risk is a growing problem and that there are no figures at all about care out of shame. In fact, I found the opposite in the Trimbos release for 2013-2015. I quote a number of findings. "In the Netherlands, the threshold to seek help for psychological or emotional problems seems relatively low compared to other countries." "But 8 percent of adult Dutch people say they feel uncomfortable talking to a professional counselor about their mental problems and only 2.6 percent say they are very ashamed of this." "Eighty percent of grown-up Dutch people don't give themselves much, or aren't ashamed at all when it becomes known that they have sought professional help for psychological problems." The Netherlands seems to be at the forefront in terms of easy access to help for psychological problems and shame about mental problems is hardly common. Then why this bill? Will the Minister respond to this? I am far from convinced of the need for anonymous e-mental health. The purpose of this bill is to regulate the financing of anonymous e-mental health by providing an annual subsidy. The grant has a lower limit and an upper limit of €100,000 and €700,000 respectively. The total amount available is 2 million. How did the lower limit and the upper limit come about? I cannot imagine that setting up an online platform with some fill-in forms and chatboxes, a number of 24-hour staff and a coordinator should cost so much. Last year, Stichting E-Help estimated that the cost of a complete, full online platform mix is about €450,000. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this upper limit can be halved, as can the lower limit. Or is two tons calculated for a principal's salary? I would like an explanation of this. How hard is that 2 million-dollar limit? What if there's a massive influx into this new offering of free online help in case of mental illness? Doesn't this bill create an entirely new healthcare offer, which ultimately makes the ggz not cheaper but much more expensive? Has the Minister taken into account the influx of patients at all? If so, who's gonna pay for that? How are the anonymous patients registered? How can their claims be monitored? How do we know if the treatment is successful or not? There's nothing in the bill about this. The indication merely states that there must be a psychological necessity. How stretchable is that understanding? Each supplier can draw up his questionnaire in such a way that the necessity has soon been demonstrated. Fortunately, the indication is now being evaluated against the DSM-IV criteria and not against the DSM-5 criteria, where a binge or a somewhat longer mourning period is already classified as a mental disorder. However, this may change at any time. In short, my group is very concerned about abuse and the sensitivity to fraud of this bill. It is in fact a kind of experiment, not based on research and figures, but on assumptions and expectations. I'm rounding up. The PVV Group is in favour of e-health, but anonymous e-health should be discouraged rather than encouraged. Is that how the Minister sees it? If so, how will it prevent influx and promote outflow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Health Insurance Act. This is about ensuring that the anonymity of people is guaranteed by health insurers. This will also make it possible for people covered by the monitoring and security system to remain anonymous. These are people who have often been victims of serious threats and/or abuse in sad circumstances. The safety of the safe house must be guaranteed for people covered by the surveillance and security system. Unfortunately, in the past, it has been found that a threater was able to retrieve the address data as a result of administrative traffic between the care provider and the health insurance provider. That's unacceptable. Let me give you an example. In 2004, a man shot his wife outside of a stay-of-my-living home. He traced her flight address through the health insurance company. People who rely on the monitoring and security system must be able to assume that they are safe. The present amendment to the Health Insurance Act allows for an anonymous settlement of the healthcare costs. The VVD therefore agrees with this part of the bill. At the end of 2007, a motion of the SP was widely supported to identify the nodes around internet treatments and to see if a directive on anonymity was possible. This reflected the internet therapies used for people with an addiction who wanted to remain anonymous. In recent years, the range of e-mental health applications has grown. E-mental health can be used in the treatment of various psychological complaints and can also be applied anonymously. For the VVD it is very important that people end up in a regular care path. Not for nothing has there been investment in the practical supporters ggz with the general practitioners in the past period and the basic mental health care functions. Care can be provided here in a very accessible way. These people are subject to medical professional secrecy, which ensures the confidentiality of such a conversation. This raises the question to the Minister as to what the argument is for the funding of anonymous e-mental health now to be laid down in a law. What is against continuing the current practice of providing a fixed subsidy of a ceiling of 2 million a year? The note of reply shows that little is currently known about the effectiveness of the application of anonymous e-mental health and that no structural monitoring has been carried out. The SP has already drawn attention to this. Who makes use of it and who benefits from it? Those are questions. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that it would be a good thing to have more insight into effectiveness? Which methods do work and which do not work? Does this form of anonymous help lead to solutions and are people looking for help in regular care? For the VVD these are relevant questions. Fortunately, scientific research is carried out on the effectiveness of the use of e-mental health. During a visit to the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam, I learned that a study shows that the combination of remote assistance via the internet and actual help through a conversation with a psychologist, the so-called blended care, leads to the best results. How does the Minister view this? Does the VVD consider that it is important that people enter the regular care process? Will this be a starting point for the application of anonymous e-mental health? The letter of 10 June 2011 states that a total of EUR 2 million, including implementation costs, will be allocated in a structural way to finance it. This amount shall be borne by the Health Insurance Fund. Will this amount be maintained in the coming years? Is this used for all forms of anonymous e-mental health? Or is a distinction still made for certain psychological complaints? Which ones are they? What role will the Healthcare Institute play in this? And what is the guarantee that this bill will not create a title to increase this budget? The VVD acknowledges that sometimes it can be very good to offer people the possibility of anonymous e-mental health; there is no misunderstanding about that. Nevertheless, for us, it is right for people to be helped within a regular care pathway. Now that there are so many questions, the VVD seems wise to continue the current scheme and gain more insight into the effects, tried and tested methods and results. A letter of amendment can provide that the important part of this bill on the anonymous settlement of the care costs of people covered by the system can simply be monitored and secured. I would like to hear how the Minister, as well as the Chamber, views this proposal. However, now that this bill is before us, the VVD has tabled an amendment this afternoon. This amendment asks for an evaluation after two years and a report on the effectiveness and effectiveness of this law in practice. Ultimately, it is about methods that make people better, especially in mental health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. Knowing you need care, but feeling ashamed about your disorder or addiction. If you do not dare to leave anonymity to use regular care, an alternative must be possible. E-mental health can occur anonymously. However, the funding for this was not well arranged for a long time. There is now a good legislative proposal for this, as far as D66 is concerned. Anonymous e-mental health for first-line psychological care, including addiction issues, is made accessible through collaboration between government, insurers and providers. We think that is a good development. D66 strongly supports the possibility of anonymity for vulnerable groups, especially in the early stages of treatment, when people still struggle with feelings of shame, fear of the environment or insecurity. D66 wants people to use appropriate care within the regular system where possible. The Minister states that the healthcare provider must motivate or guide the user to regular care. D66 would like the Minister to carry out an evaluation on this point over time. That is why I agree with the amendment tabled by the VVD. D66 would like to know in how many percent of cases and after how much time the guidance to regular care succeeds. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Does the anonymous e-mental health of, for example, the website Grip fall on your Dip from the Trimbos Institute below? It focuses mainly on prevention. Grip on your Dip actually wants to prevent young people from going to regular care at all. At the first signs of a feeling of depression, you can already intervene. Is the grant for Grip on your Dip included in this bill? Grip on your Dip is really proven effective. Can the Minister see if there is a possibility of multiannual funding in this case? This also makes it easier for such a programme to continue to work for as much prevention as possible. D66 has argued before, and also in other areas, for a good guarantee and security of data from seriously threatened clients. Of course, where people work, mistakes can occur, but this group really requires extra vigilance from all parties involved. My group welcomes the chosen line, which does not include data in the health insurance system, so that traceability becomes very difficult. I would like to hear a brief explanation from the Minister on this point. What steps will it continue to take to really minimise the risk of traceability? Can the Minister indicate whether she is prepared to identify the financial consequences of anonymous financing for seriously threatened clients and inform the Court of Justice about this? In conclusion, I can say that D66 believes that there is a good legislative proposal here. D66 supports the choice to make anonymous care available only to those for whom this is a necessary condition for treatment. I think it is important to hear from the Minister who sets the criteria for this. Who decides? Moreover, my group wholeheartedly supports the steps taken in this legislative proposal to allow people to enjoy necessary care anonymously and untraceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u10	Finally, Mrs Bouwmeester has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. People need to be able to trust that they get the care they need and that they get the care that suits them. We have a comprehensive insurance package that is accessible to everyone, regardless of income, age or state of health. That's something to be proud of. However, there is also a group of people who do not have access to care, because these people, out of shame, do not dare to ask for help because of mental illness or addiction, whereas early preventive or real help is extremely important for them not to let it go any further. Unfortunately, there is still a very big taboo on help from the ggz. That is quite wrong, because someone with a mental illness is no more or less sick than someone with a physical illness. This is not always experienced, however, so that people who do need help do not always dare to ask them. This raises the question of how the persistent taboo on mental health can be broken. But we also need a practical solution. That is why we support the proposal for anonymous e-mental health specifically for groups of people who do need ggz help but only accept it from anonymity. There is also a group of people who for another reason have limited access to care. These, for example, are people who need additional protection because of serious threats. These people, such as women who fled from violence to women's shelters, are also protected by this amendment of the law. By financing care for them anonymously, they are less likely to be found in care via the declaration data and that is an important protection mechanism. My colleague from the VVD has just mentioned a very painful example of how things can go wrong. This law reduces the chances of that happening. Access to care is thus increased for two very vulnerable groups of people. The Labour Party considers that to be a very good example of organizing care from the demand and desire of people rather than based on thinking from a system. The PvdA is therefore also a strong supporter of this bill, but still has a number of questions. Good care is care that suits people, as I just said. One fits an internet treatment and the other fits care in the office. People should always have the choice to work with their healthcare provider to determine what suits them. E-mental health, according to research by e.g. the Nictiz, is many times more effective for certain groups of people than the classic treatment in the office. According to Nictiz, however, this more effective treatment is not always widely used, because a cultural change is needed first, in which the patient is really central and therefore, according to his wishes, what offer fits. It is also necessary to provide guidance and flexible financial space. Only then will this cover be made and this contributes to appropriate care. The question then is who is helping the patient. Who's acting in his best interest? What role does the Minister see for himself in this? I was just saying that at the same time there are also people who just like to get care from the treatment room. That's good, too. If that suits you best, it's our job to keep it up. Can the Minister guarantee that e-health, health from the treatment room or in any other way are always possibilities that persist side by side? In what way is it ensured that people who can be helped by anonymous e-mental health can actually find them? How is an appropriate offer organised, diverse and close to home, so that it can be found for these specific people? How do selection and referral take place? Where can one object if anonymity is really necessary but not honoured? A number of treatments are currently eligible for reimbursement. The question is why this number is limited. Which treatments are these exactly? My colleague from D66 already asked about the treatment Grip on your Dip, but there are many more preventive interventions. Are they eligible for this? The sooner early warning preventive assistance is provided, the more effective it is and the more cost savings will be made. We would like to see a substantive evaluation of what is eligible for this. Is that enough or should it be extended? Are there more, lighter interventions needed? What does this mean for the effectiveness of treatment and for the costs? My colleague from the VVD has tabled an amendment on an evaluation, which we support. We would like to see these points reflected. Then there's the last question. Why does this bill define the intention that the healthcare provider should ultimately refer someone to regular care? Is it meant to end up referring someone from anonymous e-health to e-health, but by name? Or is someone supposed to be referred from anonymous e-health to the treatment room? If reports show that e-health is many times more effective for certain people, then I think we should make sure that they get and keep that care that suits them, and not refer it to the office, because we are used to the office. Our starting point is: do what works, do what suits people and make sure it stays widely accessible. Compliments on this proposal, which is about people and not about systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u12	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister has requested a suspension so that she can prepare herself for the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u13	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. The bill before us today is not very complicated. It's also a very limited bill. Let's not make it bigger than it is. It is a practical proposal that builds on what we have been doing since 2012. Why this bill? That is always an important question in order to be able to judge it properly. We have been looking for a solution to fund the anonymous supply of care that fits as well as possible within our healthcare system. Implementation by the Zorginstituut is a logical choice, as the Zorginstituut has an important part in the accessibility and affordability of Dutch healthcare. That's why we're letting the Healthcare Institute implement this arrangement. The amendment of the law is necessary in order to be able to invest this task at the Zorginstituut and to allow the funding of the grant scheme to run through the Zorgverzekeringsfonds (Health Insurance Fund). The financing of this kind of care belongs there. A firm anchoring of this concern is in place. Let me visualize it a little bit. You might be wondering who we're actually doing this for. For example, we do this for a teenager who is in trouble with himself and does not want to go to the general practitioner or the practical supporter of that general practitioner, because he is afraid that his mother will know in no time that he has a game addiction. The doctor can't tell you that at all, but that could scare the teenager. Then where is this teenager looking for help? He's often looking for help on the Internet. Mrs. Dijkstra already mentioned Grip on your Dip. That's one of those sites where he can end up. Think also of Alcoholdeboss.nl or Depression the boss. There are all kinds of sites where such a teenager can end up. Aren't people gonna find this help because they don't want to pay their own risk? You don't have to pay for your own risk with the GP. This is really about primary care. There is therefore no question of a suction effect. The point is that you don't want anyone to know that you have complaints or addiction and that's why you don't go to that POH-GGZ or GP. Then you start looking on the Internet. With this bill, we don't pay the Internet site. We don't pay for the information about it either. We pay purely for the intervention you can get through these sites. Is that gonna be justified? This is of course accounted for through an accountant, via IP addresses and screenshots. If you get a lower amount, it goes through the board. It happens neatly. The practice since 2012 shows that this is happening really neatly. In fact, there is also a refund. That's what happens neatly. The limit is 2 million, but we're well below that. Half of it is currently being spent. That's how it happened last year and the year before. So we're way under it. Then there's surveillance and security of the system. That's obvious. You all agree that it is not convenient for someone in this system to declare through health insurance. The state's attorney's office decides if you're covered by this system. The bill applies to those people who have received a measure of anonymity. They'll get a registration number. The providers can declare via the National Police, so no longer with the health insurance company. That's the idea of the bill. You declare it to the National Police and then it is paid out by Zorginstituut Nederland. In both cases, in the case of anonymous assistance and in the system monitoring and security, the Zorginstituut thus has the role of a grant monitor and is the independent implementing body of this scheme. Shouldn't care always be privacy proof? Yes. Patients' data should always be handled with care. This is also laid down in the Personal Data Protection Act. All laws also apply to this help. In regular care, the handler always knows his patient. This bill makes it possible to provide care to people who want to remain anonymous for their treatment. So the whole care is privacy proof, but that's not the same as anonymous. This bill regulates that anonymity. How does a healthcare provider demonstrate that anonymity is necessary? That's what questionnaires are for. We've had it since 2012. With those questionnaires, there is never really any complaint about this. The healthcare provider has to prove that he has a procedure to organise the intake properly. Providers have no problem with that, because those conditions already apply. Can the subsidy period go to three years to keep the administrative burden low? The grant to provide anonymous e-mental health is awarded annually to organisations. As a result, they are forced to provide good, effective care. We therefore call on each time to stay focused on this. Trajectories of care seekers are of limited duration, with only three to eight interventions. They'll be completed by that route in at least a year. I therefore see no need to do it for three years. This would also mean that no new providers could join, because three years is a very long period of care. There may be new insights that make you say: a new provider should also have a possibility. Why don't we invest it at the Zorginstituut Nederland? I hope I've made it clear that we are. The bill provides for both regulations to be deposited with the Zorginstituut Nederland (Zorginstituut Nederland). So that is also the answer to the question of the leak that may be there if it goes to the health insurance company. If a person is covered by the measure of anonymity, it does not go to the health insurance provider, because then the person declares himself to the National Police. It was asked whether I think it is sufficient that health insurers have complied. The point is, someone needs to get a registration number. The D.A. must therefore state that someone really must remain anonymous through the system. Then the person gets a registration number and then this law applies. If a person is not covered by the system and is not covered by it, but considers being untraceable to be very important, then arrangements can be made with health insurers. Apart from this proposal, agreement has been reached on this. These are included in the uniform measure vulnerable groups, which is part of the Code of Conduct Good Health Insurance of Health Insuranceers Netherlands. The insured person is responsible for reporting to the health insurance that there is a vulnerable person and to say: watch out for my data. In the records his address and place of residence will then be given the term "secret'. That is a signal for all employees that no information about that person should be provided. Third parties will see an empty field at "address." Customer contact staff should be well aware of the fact that information should not be provided from persons belonging to a vulnerable group. Of course, there is always a certain risk of unwelcome provision of address and residence data, for example in automated correspondence or because a human error is made. This does not apply to the people who are actually designated by the D.A. as anonymous, because they are given a registration number. This therefore concerns the group of people who are outside, but who do belong to a vulnerable group. How long does it take for someone to be admitted and how is one anonymity guaranteed from day one? We don't have a fixed term. We don't judge that either. Someone is covered by this scheme according to the one that already exists. So the D.A. is judging that, and of course we're not. That also assesses how long it is necessary and when it can be lifted. So this bill doesn't change anything. The PVV says: The Trimbo study shows that there are little shame and no thresholds in the case of mental problems, so why this bill? I am very pleased with the positive image presented by the Trimbos Institute. Moreover, I believe that there will always be patients who have feelings of shame, perhaps only in a certain part of their lives. Maybe someone isn't so embarrassed, but he doesn't want his parents to know if his family knows. With this bill, you can give substance to the possibility that, for whatever reason, you still have recourse to this scheme. Again, the POH and the GP are also accessible without barriers. So that difference isn't very big, only you're anonymous on this one. The 2 million-dollar limit is really set in this bill. So I don't see a sucking effect like that yet. The scheme has been in place for some years. We have also been spending half of the amount for some years now under the scheme. Why has a lower limit of one tonne and an upper limit of seven tonnes been chosen? In choosing to set a maximum and a minimum amount per healthcare provider, it has played a role in enabling healthcare providers using the grant to deliver a substantial volume, which would not cause too much fragmentation of the supply. So that's more of a different side. You also want to bundle it a little bit, so that there aren't a hundred small sites. You want sites in different sizes. At the same time, it was intended to prevent the entire amount available from being spent entirely by two healthcare providers. Originally, in the light of the VWS guidelines, the minimum amount was €125.000. When we cleaned up the subsidies, we established that soil everywhere in order to implement it. However, when assessing the applications for the grants for 2012 and 2013 this proved to be too high a threshold for several applicants. That is why we have adjusted that amount down to a tonne. How do we know a treatment is successful? Even if you go for these anonymous treatments, the goal is to get people back into regular care. You want to take the people who experience a threshold with this. For example, you don't want someone with a depressed teenager stuck in that depression to seek help. You want them to use regular care as soon as possible, because then you can build a treatment-patient relationship. Mrs Bouwmeester was wondering whether someone would have to make a choice for the office or for e-mental health. Very often it will probably be blended care, so a combination of that. To stay on the puberty's example: at least you want that teenager to have a treatment with whom he can build a relationship so that they can ask further questions. Where are you going? Are you in place here? Do you need much heavier help, or isn't that the point? This is precisely a way to guide people who are really looking for help to regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u15	I had another question for the Minister about the previous point, namely the contracting of the providers of this concern. There are 8 to 21 potential healthcare providers who can make use of that grant. I am also looking at the administrative burden at an annual deadline, which the Minister is talking about. If you have ten to fifteen providers of this particular care, isn't that enough in terms of choice? Is it not possible to do this on a multiannual basis, with a view to reducing the administrative burden? That seems very practical to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u16	I did not choose to do so for reasons which can also be found in the contributions of a number of Members of Parliament. At the PVV and the VVD there are doubts about whether you should go this way. Aren't you gonna make it sucky? Due to the annual deadline, you have some control over that. If this has become a common whole, I can imagine that over time you will come to the conclusion that this way of caring has grown up so much that you can use longer deadlines for this. But precisely because several parties are wondering whether you should go this way, I think that annual deadline is very good. It is also a relatively young thing, which is not common and of which perhaps after a few years, when it is more settled, you can still decide to do it over a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u17	Can I conclude from this that the Minister says that perhaps an evaluation could consider doing it on a multiannual basis, given the practical experience we have gained?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u18	I am certainly prepared to look at how the flag hangs on that point and how things have developed. Further questions are asked how we know if a treatment is successful. Only treatments and interventions are eligible which are evidence-based and therefore have a proven effective approach. That's a condition for getting a grant. The applications are currently assessed by VWS. With the adoption of the bill, the assessment will be carried out by the Healthcare Institute. Then there is the question of how we know whether treatment is necessary. To register for treatment, the user fills out a questionnaire and the healthcare provider determines whether anonymous treatment is necessary during the intake. I too am in favour of e-mental health. I think it would be huge gain if it were to be more often combined with the treatments we already give. The question has been asked whether we should not discourage this 'anonymous'. Yeah, what we're trying to do with this arrangement is to get people who aren't looking for help because they don't want someone else to know if they want to remain anonymous for other reasons, as soon as possible, in that regular system, as you can only really see what care is needed in relation to the providers. The subsidy is specifically intended for those for whom there is a need for anonymity or who we otherwise miss if we do not offer this alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u19	I am particularly concerned that this offer creates its own demand. People who need care and who are helped via e-mental health or anonymously, fine, but what about people who don't need care? Those lists are made very attractive. For example, I filled out a list this afternoon. If you drink one drink of alcohol a day, you're actually already an alcoholic and you need anonymous e-mental health. How do we prevent our own demand from being created by this offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u20	First of all, because I don't think it's very nice to do this. Otherwise, you could say it's incredibly nice. But why don't a lot of people at the POH talk? Because that's generally not seen as very much fun. So it has to be more of a necessity. Secondly, we've narrowed this down to 2 million. So it's a sucking effect? The scheme's been going on for three years. We need this law to be implemented by Zorginstituut Nederland. I could have let it pass; I wouldn't have had a law, but VWS would have had to do it all the time. Half the money just stays where it is. The providers even give money back, because you have to finish your treatment. So it's also intended that the healthcare providers check that you can't get better help in the regular circuit, whether you're in place. Is that being checked? Yeah, they have all kinds of methods to control that. That's what they've been doing for the past three years. We have the idea that this regulation is not being abused at all. We have narrowed the rules very much, in case people think they do see opportunities. Who's using it? Who's gonna benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u21	As far as that hard limit is concerned, the explanatory memorandum states that a subsidy ceiling can be set annually by law. Is that the hard line? I cannot see that the law now provides for 2 million a year to be made available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u22	No, the hard line is the ceiling. We're all there. That ceiling may, of course, vary from one year to the next when we consider that a different ceiling should be set. But, of course, that's a tough line, because you're not going through the ceiling. So you always decide here with each other what ultimately the ceiling is. Until now we have done the same and we see that this ceiling is not even half completed. We see, in particular, among certain age groups, that they do not know how to find the way because there are thresholds which, if we go back to our own time, we might still be able to imagine that they could exist. You have young people who feel depressed, and people who suffer from gambling, alcohol or game addiction. Those are the groups that can really benefit from this. Some of those groups are looking for help and another part feels ashamed to seek that help. Only effective interventions are subsidised and thus basic quality is guaranteed in principle. The IGZ simply supervises the quality of the care. I come to the question of the PvdA and the VVD whether it is the starting point that one gets into regular care. Yeah, that's the starting point. The subsidy is specifically intended for people for whom anonymity is a necessary condition. People can't claim that care for other reasons. A healthcare provider is required to make it clear that the appropriate category of persons makes use of it. A letter of amendment to split the bill could legally. This regulation has, moreover, come at great pressure from the Chamber, not only because of the motion of the SP. I have been having debates with your Chamber in the budget debate for many years about the need for an anonymous aid subsidy scheme. Of course, I could have allowed this subsidy scheme to continue, but I want to have these guarantees carried out by Zorginstituut Nederland, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u23	I think we'll get to the bottom of it. Can the Minister explain what the advantage of bringing this into the Health Care Institute and moving away from the methodology that has also worked in recent years? Why wasn't it chosen to go through a subsidy scheme through the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u24	Apparently, there has been a need for a subsidy scheme for years. The need for this has been pointed out several times in this Chamber. You can let it go, but we think that Zorginstituut Nederland is the appropriate body to implement such a scheme and to check whether the scheme works, what additional requirements need to be added and whether there is more evidence based. Zorginstituut Nederland is our package manager. The Healthcare Institute can see if anything works or not. We would like the things that are being used to be properly investigated. Several MPs have asked for this. What is being applied is being examined, but there can of course also be a development in this scheme and in anonymous aid. We want what we believe should be carried out there. There is now a subsidy that runs through the budget. This will be a contribution-financed grant which will then be covered by the fund. We've let this go for a couple of years. You can say that the subsidy scheme is meant to try something out. Either you perpetuate this one or you say we don't need that arrangement anymore. We've decided on perseverance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u25	That is clear in this proposal. We still have the necessary questions about commitment and effectiveness. That is why the Minister also argues that it would be good if the Healthcare Institute looked at this further. Wouldn't it be wiser to extend this subsidy scheme even further in order to get a picture of it? At the moment, the Healthcare Institute can play that role without the adoption of this bill. Then you have the certainty that resources will be used for good methodologies and that the help you want will be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u26	The interventions offered are evidence-based. So we don't care about non-evidence based. That's what I'm saying about the first argument. The second argument is that Zorginstituut Nederland can do it without law. But you can't. That's why I come up with a law. So you're securing it in the system. It's nothing new. The Chamber itself has for years stated that it considers this to be extremely important. It's evidence based, but we've been implementing that grant scheme for three years. At some point, we were asking whether we're going to go through with it or not. If we continue, we will invest it where it is best, namely at Zorginstituut Nederland. The Healthcare Institute can also develop it further with the knowledge it has in its home. D66 asks whether we want to include in the evaluation in how many percent of the cases the guidance to regular care succeeds. I'm sure I'm willing to do that. I will also ask Zorginstituut Nederland if it wants to take that point. Does Grip fall for your Trimbos Institute Dip under the bill? Grip's interventions on your Dip are covered by the bill. This also applies to the other sites I have just mentioned. There is a whole overview of the sites that are covered. I come to the multi-annual grant. Grip's interventions on your Dip have been subsidised for years. However, there is an annual submission of the question. It does not apply to the information section, but it does apply to the intervention sector. I have just told Mr Van Gerven that I want to keep it that way, but I do want to include it in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u27	I have just said that it is also very important for D66 to be led to regular care. Websites like Grip on your Dip. There are also a lot of other.... are actually more preventive in nature. Does the Minister mean to prevent people from finding themselves in such a situation that they end up in regular care? Could this be measured, and could this possibly be taken into account in the evaluation? Can you establish that a certain percentage after an intervention of a number of treatments, anonymously via such a site, is ready and that you don't see the people who are involved again? Or is that hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u28	It's hard to evaluate the law. When evaluating the law, we evaluate the parts of each site that are covered by the law. There are all kinds of things we do in the preventive area. I think we can talk about this in another context. The importance of this is evident. This bill really looks at the area of care that is normally provided mainly by the Health Insurance Act, but which we are financing in a different way precisely because we want to catch these people. I really do not want to commit to this evaluation, because we are bringing in a very inappropriate element.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u29	I understand that, and I will certainly come back to it when this is discussed at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u30	Fine. What steps will I continue to take to minimise the traceability of persons? As long as the bill has not entered into force, the pilot will continue. Together with the National Police, the Public Prosecutor and the Healthcare Institute, I am discussing improvements in the implementation of the scheme. I'll keep talking to them about that. The anonymity is already fully guaranteed for this group of people covered by this bill. Declarations shall be submitted via a unique registration number, not in the name of the endangered person. In the police department, these declarations are not handled by the ordinary administration department, but by a special department of conflict and crisis management. Would I like to inform the Chamber about the financing of care for threatened persons and about the course of events? I do. I'm talking to the Healthcare Institute, the National Police and the State's Attorney's Office about an improved implementation of the pilot that's still running. I'll share the results with the Chamber. Who sets criteria for when anonymity is necessary? It is the healthcare questioner himself who seeks this form of care. An intake takes place in which questions need to be answered showing that the care provider is not looking for regular care for important and relevant reasons. This gives the healthcare provider an idea of the need for anonymity. Sampling shall be carried out to verify whether this is actually the case. You also need an audition and there are screenshots. There are methods for that. Can I guarantee that e-health will always exist next to the treatment room? I totally agree with Mrs Bouwmeester that you really need to see who the caregiver is. What works best? What's the need? E-health I will never fulfill all the need for care. Care will always be provided in treatment rooms. I actually think that you will generally end up in a mix, where it complements one another. How does selective selection reference take place? The treatment has an anonymous character. Therefore, the healthcare provider cannot explicitly refer, but the person asking for help will point out that this is sometimes really necessary. It will certainly be dealt with in that intervention. How can you object if anonymity is not guaranteed? This is a boarded-up system. If you feel that your privacy has been violated at all, in any situation, you can always go to the College Protection Personal Data. If you think that the help given is not good, you can always go to a complaint counter. All the legislation we have made applies to these patients as well. However, the chance of someone complaining at a counter is less if he asks for help anonymously. However, the legislation does apply. Can the effectiveness of treatments be included in the evaluation? I have indicated that I will indeed ask the Dutch Health Institute. In his amendment, Mr De Lange proposes that, within two years of the entry into force of this law, I submit a report to the States-General on the effectiveness and effects of this law in practice. I think it is a positive amendment and leave it to the Chamber to decide on it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you very much, but Mr De Lange would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u32	As far as the scope is concerned, I believe it is relevant to what kind of mental illness it is actually about. What exactly is it about? I note that it started once from addiction care and that we are now talking about interventions aimed at teenagers around gambling. What is the Minister's framework for the interventions she intends to include in this? The number of interventions says something about the budget you have. Which way is it moving now? I see growth, but the question is, of course, whether it is effective. I'm glad to hear that this should eventually lead to regular care. To make it very concrete: that teenager comes in via the internet, but if I understand correctly, it is necessary that that teenager finally arrives at the GP. Otherwise, he will not end up in regular care in the follow-up. So my question is: will this not ultimately be an arrangement on which we will say in a few years' time: it is so outspoken that we no longer see the forest through the trees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u33	I think that's a very small opportunity. If this was an arrangement that I would say you can have all kinds of care that you normally have to pay your own risk for, then I can imagine that people do not want to pay that risk and so ask for that help. But that is not the case here, we are talking about primary care. So I don't see any financial incentives here. The second point. If you have a problem and you have a treatment in front of you, you can have a relationship with it and get in touch with it. I mentioned the teenagers as an example. I really don't want to give the impression that it's just about teenagers. It may also be that someone has a gambling addiction and his wife doesn't know. It may be that he doesn't want her to know. It's possible he doesn't quite trust it. That is wrong, because there is a medical professional secrecy, but there are all kinds of reasons why people do not seek help, when we would like them to. Look at depression, look at addiction: the sooner you seek help, the faster and the better you can be helped. It is therefore limited and delimited to aid which is already accessible without barriers. You don't have to pay for that. You can now also get that help with your POH, at the ggz or at your GP, only then do so via the internet. We are trying to get these young people or the drunk woman, who thinks her husband doesn't know it yet, on the Internet, into a route as soon as possible, while they would otherwise avoid it themselves. And yes, at some point it stops. You can't prescribe medication, you can't give specialist complex care. That is why I said that it is a very limited proposal. To be honest, I do not see the growth that the Chamber sees. Where we have allocated a budget, it is far from being drawn up. This is a difficult group to reach, a group which is apparently still difficult to reach even by this route. We keep the stop on all sides or we decide on the ceiling ourselves. If we think it's not going well somewhere, we're totally screwed. This also applies if improper use is shown by the samples taken, by the auditors, by the IP addresses or by the screen tests, by everything you do to see if what we intended is happening. It is now being performed by the Zorginstituut Nederland, which can also see how we can improve it. It is evidence-based care, but over time all kinds of adjustments may prove necessary in these kinds of interventions, and then it's also where it belongs. That's all it really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u34	That's very simple! You're gonna learn something. I thank the Minister for her answer. There is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. In the second term, I would like to make a few brief comments. The Minister has explained clearly what is going on with anonymity. It has been secured, especially with the group of endangered persons. Apparently that's been the practice for two or three years. There's been a meeting with the D.A.'s office. Are there recent examples of cases where things have gone wrong? Mr De Lange mentioned a very poignant example from 2014, but a certain practice has now become topical. Have there been any calamities since? Did the minister know about that? A second point concerns the evaluation period mentioned in Mr De Lange's amendment. Isn't it wiser to keep a term of three years? I think two years is pretty short for a law review. Of course, I am not in a hard place, but a three-year period seems reasonable to me to judge this correctly. In any case, I will give my group a positive vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group is concerned about the sucking effect of e-mental health that is anonymous and free. Abuse and fraud are then lurking. The starting point must always be that anonymous e-mental health is discouraged. The Minister stated clearly in her reply that this is also the case, because the aim is that anonymous e-mental health is eventually transferred to regular medical care, which is not anonymous. With that commitment and with Mr De Lange's amendment, which will ensure an evaluation of effectiveness in two years' time, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Perhaps I should first respond to Mr Van Gerven's suggestion about the two-year period. D66 and the Labour Party have already indicated that they wish to support this amendment. I think it is important that we evaluate it in the short term, because this debate has made it clear that there are the necessary critical questions. That is why it seems appropriate to me to be able to do this within two years. I thank the Minister for his appreciation. So I think it's good to hold on to those two years. For Mrs Klever this is apparently an argument as well. For the VVD it remains that there is now an existing practice, which works on a number of fronts. Of course it is very good to work with proven methodologies, so evidence based, but the question remains how these methods lead people to go to regular care. It would therefore be much more sensible to continue the current practice, which has worked over the past three years, and to look at how it can be proven even better. As far as the VVD is concerned, people have to go to regular care. We remain particularly critical of this part of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mrs Dijkstra waives her second term, so does Mrs Bouwmeester. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mr. Chairman. I'd still like to ask my officials a question. Excuse me, I just wanted to make sure. There are cases where things went wrong and people could be found, for example through the health insurance company's declaration. We do not know whether this has happened in the pilot, which is now working under registration number. The pilot's being evaluated, and I'm sending that evaluation to the Chamber. Then we can see if that actually happened. Whether the evaluation period is too long or too short, I leave it to the Chamber. The House's amendment says two years. I can understand that, as there are questions about this law. Then maybe it's good to evaluate a little faster. I don't have any strong feelings about it myself, but I can imagine that. Mr De Lange asked whether it would not be much better to continue the existing practice on a part of the law, the anonymous question of aid. We have come to the conclusion that there is a great deal of political consensus about the fact that these people do not go to aid because of their anonymity and not for other reasons. For example, there are no perverse financial incentives. The anonymity is decisive. This arrangement was made once because it is much better, in the end, for those people to be treated much earlier. There is no reason to assume that there is a suction effect et cetera. To be sure, we have limited the scheme and we do have an annual contract round. If it has risen so quickly in a year that you have suddenly reached the ceiling and you want to find out, you can just say: next year we go again for one year, the ceiling is maintained and we figure it out first. There is no working with non-evidence based interventions. They're evidence based; it's been examined. All things considered, also because I really believe that such arrangements belong to the healthcare institution and that they can develop much better in the direction that also reflects the state of science, I see reason to make a law on them now. I think it's a responsible step with all the guarantees. In fact, I think it is very important that we do it on this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-10.u40	I thank the Minister. The vote on this bill will take place next Tuesday.
