ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State. We have six speakers. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch, who speaks on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. Recently, we discussed fraud and the RADAR ICT project in general. RADAR is a good programme in itself, which must ensure that we prevent fraud and fraud in the Netherlands, so that we have a good locational environment for entrepreneurs. The CDA agrees. However, we have also been critical in the consultation and have said that we would like a proper evaluation from the Secretary of State. The Elias Committee has drawn up a number of directives. The RADAR project has now been completed, but is still starting and we can learn from it. After all, we have paid expensive tuition fees for this. The question of the CDA is not: who exactly did what? The question is: what happened and how can we adapt our manuals and laws and regulations accordingly? In our motion, we urge the Secretary of State to involve external parties from science and civil society, so that we can learn even better from the situation. I'll file the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas errors in the start-up, procurement and development of the RADAR ICT system have resulted in significantly higher costs and many questions about the procurement procedure followed;]] [[whereas ICT problems are widespread and it is important to learn from the mistakes made;]] [[calls on the government to make the RADAR ICT project available as a case for a state-wide evaluation, which, in addition to the public authorities and public procurement partners, also makes explicit use of scientific and civil society expertise;]] [[invites the Government to update, if necessary, legislation and/or manuals for national ICT projects in response to their outcome;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u3	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it sounds very nice: an ICT system, with which you let everyone who tries to cheat by e.g. setting up or buying up an e.g. promising golden mountains to employees or customers, with the aim of letting the e.g. go bankrupt. That was RADAR's intention. The nice and positive thing is that RADAR is now operational and that a lot of investigations have been carried out in the meantime, with suspects in the picture. Of course, that's very good. However, it had quite a few feet in the earth before we got there. This has been accompanied by a lot of effort, a lot of labour and a lot of money, especially from the Ministry of Security and Justice. My group agrees with the CDA Group that we should take a critical look at how things could have gone this way. It has gone wrong on a number of points. Agreements have been made, but they have not all been fulfilled in a long time. This has cost us a lot of money and also the necessary frustration, not least because I have been asking here as a Member of Parliament for many years about RADAR. However, I have the feeling that, over a certain period of time, the matter is a little more rosy than it actually was. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that from 2009 to 2012 a total of 30 external staff were hired for the Programme Revision Monitoring of legal persons;]] [[having noted that these externals cost a total of EUR 10.3 million, including EUR 7.3 million in costs for the RADAR project;]] [[Whereas it is not sufficiently clear what work these staff have done for the development of RADAR;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear why these outsiders had to be hired and what activities they had to carry out;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u4	Mr. Chairman. Last week we discussed in detail the RADAR system, a detection system to catch fraudsters. I note that the system is in any case functioning properly. To be honest, I am happy about that, because it shows that it has added value at the moment. Last time, but also earlier, we discussed in this Chamber the way in which the whole system was contracted and tendered. Honesty commands that this as such deserves no beauty prize. It cost a lot more. Moreover, there could at least have been better communication between public institutions within one and the same government. My question to the Secretary of State is not so much about the RADAR system specifically, but about how we can generally ensure that ICT projects within the Ministry of Security and Justice are properly supervised. Especially at the front, we need to think very carefully about questions such as: what do we want, what do we put into the market and what picture does this include? Then we can also make a good cost estimate. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u5	Mr. Chairman. We have already had the debate, but my group too would like to send a final message to these two members of the cabinet about the central shareholder register. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the political groups of the PvdA and the SP have submitted separate own-initiative notes to establish a central shareholder register for shares of e.g. and non-listed NSAs;]] [[whereas, on the basis of firm commitments, these political groups expect the government to establish a central shareholder register;]] [[Whereas the Government has recently indicated its intention to give priority to a UBO register and to at least postpone the introduction of a central shareholder register;]] [[Considers that a central shareholder registry has added value in addition to a UBO registry or in combination with that as regards the detection of crimes via e.g. or unlisted NSAs;]] [[calls on the Government to continue preparations for a central shareholder register and to ensure that this register, whether or not combined with a UBO register, is established,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Recourt and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u6	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. The chair is set so high that I can hardly lay my hands on it. If it's okay to bring it down again, I'd be delighted. For a moment, we had an intra-departmental meeting with whom to speak first. The honor has been granted to me, and I'd be happy to. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for all the comments made during the general consultation. I think it is a good thing that the Chamber and the Government, together, should be shoulder-to-shoulder, as my predecessor would have said, in order to successfully complete the fraud case. This means combating fraud in the Netherlands in the broadest sense, by taking good measures, by increasing the chances of getting the right penalties, but above all by taking as many preventive measures as possible. One of these is the central shareholder register, on which members of the PvdA Group, Groot and Recourt, have submitted an initiative proposal to the Chamber. The government is not opposed to the central shareholders' register, but the finance and economic ministers and I have, because of the reality, had to decide to give priority to the so-called UBO register, which Mr Recourt also mentioned. This aims to a large extent to the same extent as the central shareholder register, but we do not exclude that the central shareholder register can have added value on top of that UBO register, as we have also exchanged in general consultation. The question we were faced with is whether we can develop both registers simultaneously. The answer was no for a number of reasons. This leads to bottlenecks in implementation, in legislation and ultimately in the affordability of both registers, because it also has a financial framework. Then we said we'd do it like this. We will start with the UBO register, because this is mandatory at European level and has a strict implementation deadline, namely 26 June 2017. I have already shared with the Chamber that we need to work very hard to get it. This does not mean that it has been decided to postpone the central shareholder register. In general consultation, I have already said that it is quite possible that there will be an added value for the Central Shareholders Register, because it will regulate something different, in a different way, than the UBO Register. The objective of both registers is the same: to tackle fraud and money laundering and to combat tax evasion. I would like the motion-Recourt/Gesthuizen in part no. 124 to interpret it in such a way that the reflection on the central shareholder register does not stop and that, during the development of the UBO register and the legislative process, further inventory is made where the central shareholder register could have added value. If, by mapping that during the trial, I give effect to the motion, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. However, if Mr Recourt and Mrs Gesthuizen think that these should be two routes, then I really have problems with the implementation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u7	In my view, we can already see that both the central shareholder register and the UBO register can fight fraud, but that they are not the same and do different things. Our commitment was to not do one thing and leave the other, but to take it up at the same time. I hear the Minister makes that commitment. We put them in our pockets. I think we can agree on that. Above all, we want to prevent one from happening and the other from slowly driving into the mud and disappearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u8	That will certainly not be the case. As part of this motion, I can say that the reflection process will continue. In the legal process of the UBO register, the parties in the Chamber can make a good inventory of what is not yet settled what was meant by the central shareholder register and how you could arrange it. I think it's very good to pay attention to that. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say to Mr Recourt that I will not be able to order that both legislative processes run in the same way. This really brings me to the problems of capacity and implementation. However, the reflection process and dialogue with the Court on the added value of the central shareholder register can certainly take place at the same time. I welcome the fact that this is happening, so that we can first have the UBO and then continue with the central shareholder register.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u9	But if you would now take stock of the differences and similarities, I can imagine that some things can go together. You can now include in the UBO elements that also concern the central shareholder register. I understand what the Minister is saying, but at the moment I can, I certainly wouldn't let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u10	That is, of course, correct, and I understand that Mr Recourt is saying that, but we are dealing with a headline on a European directive. That's what this Chamber and the government are critical of, and certainly the First Chamber. We have to weigh that up, but I certainly do not reject that thought in advance. If we are allowed to interpret the motion in this way, I think we are going to continue the thinking and continue the dialogue with the Chamber on the central shareholder register, then I will leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u11	The Secretary of State will deal with the motions on the documents No. 122 and 123.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u12	Mr. Chairman. We discussed RADAR at length during the AO. On many points, I agreed with many Members of Parliament, on a number of points. I can see that in the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 122. The Chamber has spent a great deal of time with the Elias Committee on the selection of cases and has studied them more closely in order to draw lessons from them. I have followed the discussion on RADAR in the AO and I do not see any other cases of which I say: there is something unusual about that in relation to the cases that the Elias Committee has already studied very well. I would therefore not like to make the choice of digging into this case and drawing the same conclusions as we now know. I would then like to choose to focus the capacity I should free up to do so on the fight against fraud itself. This case is subject to evaluation and investigation in the department, but is not part of a broader case. There is no national evaluation process now where I could add this to it. I'd have to start something. The BIT, which was set up following the Elias Commission, is very capable of keeping us sharp as a result of the lessons that have been learned. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 122 by Mr Amhaouch. That answer is reflected in the answer to Mr Van Oosten's question. Partly through the BIT but also in other ways we have learned lessons from the way projects were often run. There must be a clear business case and funding and above all it must be clearly defined what you expect and what you do not expect. In addition, it has to be considered whether the project fits realistically within the business case and the commissioned assignment. Moreover, the roles of those involved within the organisation and various organisations from outside must be defined. I can already tell you from experience that the discussion between our department and BIT on how it looks at a new ICT pathway is not a formality. Then the motion to part No. 123 by Mrs Gesthuizen. We have also agreed on making it clear to a very large extent. At the technical briefing we showed a lot. In answering previous written questions we have freed up capacity to dig a layer deeper and to give the Chamber more insight. Now we come to the point that I understand that Mrs Gesthuizen wants to dig even deeper, but that I do not advise. What is really useful to know and also to draw lessons for the future, we have shared. We have discussed this at length. It would now cost a lot of capacity to make another battle. I would prefer to use this capacity in a different way in order to combat fraud. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-27.u13	I thank the rulers for their reactions to the motions.
