ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u1	The Minister for Economic Affairs was already present, but I would like to welcome him once again. We have four speakers. We shall begin with Mr Remco Bosma of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you have just bought clothes online and you already see your personal data on the following website, that is a shock. You don't want anyone else to come up with this strictly personal information. We want to take advantage of the convenience of e-commerce, but at night we don't want to be awake about whether someone else is taking advantage of it. This was already warned in 1995 through the movie The Net. That movie warned of identity fraud before e-commerce was invented. There was a risk that you'd become some kind of digital cat catcher undetected. Luckily, not every prophecy comes true. Sometimes a kind of wake-up call arises and appropriate measures are taken. In 1997, DigiNotar was founded, a trust service for the virtual world. Good, I hear you thinking, so we can go to sleep safely now. However, developments in the virtual world have continued. A wide range of possibilities has been added. Social networks appeared but also the possibility to easily trade overseas and make online payments. International banking matters are now being dealt with massively in a few clicks. With the increased opportunities to conduct transactions on the Internet, the interest of criminals has also been aroused. That means it's very important that you know who you're dealing with and that you're dealing with the right person. Not only the Internet is global, cybercrime is global. The competition takes place with the best criminals. We are dealing with an international playing field and global opponents. Continuous vigilance is therefore necessary. Unfortunately things went wrong there, because DigiNotar from Beverwijk was hacked in 2011. DigiNotar immediately lost confidence and went bankrupt. Currently, there are different national directives and requirements within the EU that Member States have to comply with. This creates a cacophony and does not help to create a unified digital European market, because we do not know if it is all equally reliable. The European Regulation provides a solution and sets quality standards for trust services. We are adapting the Telecom Act to that today. The VVD is positive about that. However, security is as strong as the weakest link. Continuous vigilance is required, because you're so out dated. That is why I would like to know from the Minister how to keep up the good work, because the latest state of the art must be and must remain the norm. Has the job delimitation between BZK and EZ already been resolved when it comes to allowing authentication tools? BZK has the lead in eID, but there's not much progress in this case. How does this relate to the eidas regulation? Will the objective of this Regulation be achieved if BZK is lagging behind in the eID process? The division of tasks is transferred from the ACM to the Telecom Agency. Will the Telecom Agency have sufficient opportunities to acquire the specific knowledge and resources required for this task? And are the audits that are going to be carried out sufficiently in-depth? One final question remains as to the guarantees and the European recognition of trust services from third countries. It is not now clear whether the supervision of trust services in these third countries is being taken into account, whereas it is explicitly described in the Regulation for the Member States themselves. The trust services provided through third countries should not pose a security risk to our only partially single digital market. Would the Minister care to comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u3	Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the aim of this bill, namely to increase confidence in electronic transactions. The effectiveness of public and private online services and trade in the European Union's internal market must be well regulated. My group still has a few questions about security and privacy, about the implementation and supervision of the bill, and about accessibility for people with disabilities. I'll start with the questions about security, privacy and the implementation of the bill. The legislative proposal introduces a hub for cross-border acceptance of electronic identifiers, the eidas node. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this system has had childhood diseases? Have there been any technical problems in the last period? In setting up the node, Member States have opted for a decentralised structure, with each country having one or a maximum of single nodes. Can the Minister explain why the choice has been made? Could this facility lead to safety risks? And if so, what are they? Are these risks lower than if a centralised structure had been chosen? Is it true that the node only exchanges the first name, last name, place of birth and date of birth? Will this data always be encrypted? Can the Minister also comment a little further on the situation that less stringent technical security requirements are applied to unqualified trust services in relation to ease of use and costs? According to the Minister, users have indicated that it is acceptable if the guarantees are lower for some purposes. That was on page 10 of the note following the report. Can the Minister state what purposes are being discussed? In what investigation did users indicate this? The CDA also has questions about storing data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u4	I find this very interesting, because this is about data encryption. I know the CDA is a great advocate of stopping encryption. The CDA clearly explains why it is important for this data to be encrypted, but in another debate the CDA indicated that it wanted to get rid of that encryption. How does that relate to each other? I would like to hear why encryption is important in this case, while the CDA wants to get rid of it in other discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u5	This is about your first name, your last name, your birthplace and your date of birth. Suppose as a resident of the Netherlands I end up with a foreign government. Then how does it work with my data? If you have to go to the police as a resident of the Netherlands in Greece because your wallet was stolen or whatever, will your data be handled properly? That is the question I put to the Minister. There are also a number of other types of services. How are we looking at this? What about the burden of supervision and the administrative burden? We ask these questions to the Minister and I am very curious how he sees it. But perhaps Mrs Oosenbrug can clarify what situations she is talking about. I can also come back to that in the second term. It must have something to do with what my colleague Mr Van Toorenburg said about safety, but that may have a different background.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u6	That's right; hence the enlightening question. You can see very clearly why encryption is important. I think the Minister will also explain later why it is important that this data be sent encrypted. When you say in debates on other legislation that you want to remove all encryption, it has a direct impact on this legislation. But I'd be happy to discuss it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u7	I think it would be very good if the Minister were to deal with this later. In second term, we can always see where there's room to find each other. The CDA also has questions about storing the data. The Minister states that the eidas node should not store identity data. However, it also states that identity data may be stored for a short time in order to reconstruct the exchange of messages in the correct order in the event of an incident, so that the location and nature of the incident can be determined. But how long is "short-lived"? The CDA is also curious how to prevent malfunctions. In response to questions from the Chamber, the Minister indicated that residents and businesses should not suffer from a possible malfunction. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? He College protection personal data has advocated an additional privacy impact assessment, so that there will be a careful elaboration of the node. How's that additional privacy impact assessment coming? Is the Minister going to do the same? Then I come to accessibility for people with disabilities. The Regulation does not lay down criteria for accessibility for persons with disabilities. According to the Minister, they are not necessary, because there are no practical situations in the Netherlands where people with disabilities who wanted to use a trust service could not do so because of their limitation. If so, the CDA wonders why the Cabinet expects the obligation of Web Directives to lead to a disproportionate increase in costs and administrative burdens. If trust services are already fully accessible, wouldn't an obligation of Web directives lead to a disproportionate increase in administrative burdens? We'd like to get an explanation from the Minister. Can the Minister indicate how he is going to ensure that the change does not have a negative impact on the accessibility of the telecoms service and/or identity check, including in the light of the UN Convention? The Minister also indicated that a European Union directive was negotiated under the Dutch Presidency to make access to websites, in particular public websites, mandatory. The question is to what extent this standard should apply not only to public authorities but also to certain companies. Can the Minister indicate how far the negotiations have progressed? And which companies are thought of? We would like to hear the position of the Dutch Government. Then I'll join the surveillance. Can the Minister explain why the bill regulates a transition from the Authority's supervision of the Consumer & Market to the Telecom Agency? Does the Minister also expect transitional problems in this respect? I'll close with a more technical question. In the reply we read that additional FTE is being used to monitor the regulation. Can the Minister explain the cost of over EUR 1 million? To what extent can costs be further reduced? Do the costs outweigh the benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has an open economy with excellent ICT infrastructure. We want to be able to handle our transactions electronically throughout Europe. The European Commission encourages the development of a single European digital market in which national eID systems can be used for cross-border, secure transactions. This regulation offers new opportunities for businesses and citizens. That is why the Labour Party is in favour of this regulation. However, a number of security and privacy risks must be taken into account. When developing user-friendly and innovative services, it should be possible to trust that this service can subsequently be delivered with care and reliability. This means that there is a need for certainty about the identity of a citizen, consumer and employee, but also of the government, company or organisation with which you want to do business. With the government/business and the citizen/consumer meeting online and not always more face to face, there is a need for a similar level of certainty about the identity of the person you are doing business with. The PvdA has already asked many critical questions in the written round. I would like to thank the Minister and his officials for their comprehensive reply. However, there are still a few questions that I would like to put to the Minister. When citizens and businesses use online services, there must be a safe environment. Now the responsibility for reporting a leak lies with the Member States, as we read in the reply. The PvdA is concerned about the possible consequences of such a leak. As far as my group is concerned, the monitoring of the Member States can be much better. What specific plans does the Minister have for us to take away this concern? We also wonder why the Minister does not give the National Cyber Security Centre a more controlling function in advance, rather than a post-corrective one. The PvdA attaches great importance to privacy in online services. Within the legislative amendment, there is still some uncertainty about the different levels of services that use our digital signatures and other online data. In the reply we read that a "sufficient degree of confidentiality" is sought. The PvdA Group considers this phrase really too vague and therefore wants a clearer specification from the Minister. Like the CDA's colleague, we are also curious about the results of the additional privacy assessment, which must have been carried out according to the answer. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u9	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is to secure electronic identification between citizens, businesses and public authorities in the EU. At its core, it should increase the reliability of electronic identifications so that these identifications can be used across Europe. You will be able to identify yourself as a Dutchman with your DigiD if you register at a Spanish university, or if you request VAT from the government of Latvia if you do business there. The main objection of the PVV to this bill is that it is too easy to assume that electronic identification is safe provided you meet a number of conditions. As far as we are concerned, this assumption is incorrect. This is how we read in The FD last week that there was a doubling of damage caused by business identity fraud. That was the tip of the iceberg, because many companies do not even report it, because of fear of image damage. Banks are also known to be victims of electronic fraud on a regular basis. Because banks attach great importance to internet banking, individuals are treated very generously if they suffer damage due to identity fraud. Citizens are now actively warned against digital fraud in the Netherlands via the well-known advertising slogan "hang on, click away, call your bank." Any suspicion of what happens to your digital data seems to be in order. This bill enhances the possibilities for exchanging digital personal data. This also increases the possibility that your personal data will be picked up by criminals somewhere abroad. For example, if Eastern European gangs gain access to the Bulgarian electronic identification system in Bulgaria, this will include personal data from Dutch citizens. That seems undesirable to us. The safeguards and reporting provided for in this bill will not prevent this abuse, we expect. This is also evident, for example, from the fact that we believed that we and DigiD had digitally managed things well for each other in the Netherlands. However, criminals were found to be able to confiscate people's DigiD codes in order to channel benefits, supplements and study funding. We therefore believe that it is important to protect everyone's digital data as much as possible instead of spreading it throughout Europe. You can't open an account at a bank without extensive physical identification. A notary does not pass real estate if parties have not physically legitimised themselves. But we fear that this regulation will soon make it possible at European level to deal with all kinds of important issues without such physical safeguards. The PVV agrees that electronic business is becoming increasingly important and should therefore be facilitated, but such development must be balanced, while protecting citizens and businesses from improper use. We do not have that balance. It was precisely the lack of attention in the field of digital security that Ombudsman Brenninkmeijer warned at the time. The PVV does not want to grab our digital security and will therefore vote against the implementation of this EU regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u10	I believe that the purpose of this regulation is precisely to set quality standards. This means that current practice is being improved. I therefore do not understand Mrs Klever's statement that she wants to vote against this regulation or at least against these legislative amendments. In addition, it doesn't make any sense. We are only adapting the law to a regulation that is directly applicable, so there is no point in voting against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u11	As you know, we have no message from EU regulations. We are dealing here in the Netherlands with our own Dutch affairs; that is point one. The second point is that another body is about to assess whether, for example, the Bulgarian DigiD system, the electronic identification system, meets a number of conditions. If so, the Bulgarians may do business with the Dutch government through identification. The other way around, the Dutch are allowed to do business in Bulgaria. The point is, of course, you have to protect your personal data. This regulation will automatically regulate identification with other countries. We think: if you can't even arrange it in the Netherlands yet, look at the scandals with the DigiD...................................................................................................................................................... Let us first ensure that we can arrange it here in the Netherlands; that is difficult enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u12	This has put an end to the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u13	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Klever hit the nail on the head when she said that there is, of course, a digital development. We all see what's happening digitally and on the Internet. Mrs. Klever says these things need to be facilitated. Only then did she conclude that it is against the elaboration of this directive by the European Union. However, there is no EU directive at all. It's a regulation. The difference between a regulation and a directive is that a directive must be transposed by us into a law, after which it will have legal force, while a regulation itself has legal force at once. We now have an EU regulation on electronic identification and trust services. For trust services, the Regulation already entered into force in July this year. Electronic identification should be regulated in the Member States in 2018. It is inevitable that this should be done in all Member States. We are now going to vote on the amendment of our rules and the drafting of the regulation on the points that still need to be done. But this is all already a fact because the regulation has direct effect. Mrs Klever was very right when she said that this is something that should be facilitated because it is a given. We have been working on this issue since the 1990s. We already had the electronic signatures directive, which dates back to 1999. This Directive shall be replaced by the Regulation. This was there for a reason, because we already do a lot in the Netherlands with trust services, electronic signatures and electronic identification. Let me give you a few examples. People almost all do their tax returns digitally. So you're on this subject. Students are another example. They work with the Education Executive Service (DUO) via a digital portal. They do all that and find that very logical. They hardly work with DUO in any other way. People without work, who have to do with the UWV, are another example. They work with uwv.nl. That's one of those digital services. It's all going on. You will notice that it is not only happening within the Netherlands, but also across borders. In the Netherlands there are two examples of this. On the website of the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland (RVO), Belgian farmers can already apply for exemptions and permits for the transport of manure and for the import and export of plants with their Belgian electronic identification. That is already happening with the Belgians in that way. Another thing we have already walked with the Belgians is that a Belgian in case of a traffic ticket has recently been able to log on to the website of the Dutch Central Justice Collection Agency with his Belgian electronic identification device. He can then look at the photo showing that he did indeed do what he was fined for. So we've already done this across borders. It is also very desirable that this should run. If a Pole has worked in horticulture and he wants to ask for digital taxes back, he can do so from Poland. He does not have to go to the Netherlands to carry out activities there. No, this can just be arranged from Poland. But a Dutchman who, for example, wants to start a business in Estonia and who wants to register with the Chamber of Commerce in Estonia, can do so from the Netherlands. He doesn't have to go to Estonia separately. If you want to participate in a European tender, you can also do so from the Netherlands with KPN's electronic signature, for example with a French digital tender application form. It also applies to a Dutch student who wants to work in Lisbon. He applies and sends his diploma as an attachment to an e-mail. In the Netherlands, he can authenticate that electronically. He can then send it to Portugal in that way and does not need to do so. I can give you a lot of examples of this kind. Everyone actually understands that, because we are doing more and more together in Europe. That is what we want and the Dutch companies also want, because 70% to 80% of their exports go to countries in the European Union. They want this to be smooth, easy and as responsible as possible. That is why the Netherlands supports this development. We already have our own experience with trust services and electronic identification. We have an interest in ensuring that this is now regulated at European level, and that is why we have made a great contribution to this development. For example, the experience we have gained in the DigiNotar case and the advice we have received on this matter from the Security Research Council are involved in the drafting of this regulation. The lessons learned in the Netherlands and other countries in this regard have been incorporated into this Regulation. It is intended that all of us in Europe should now take advantage of this. So soon you will have the situation that there are data systems in all European countries and that access has also been created for citizens from other European countries. They can then go to a particular country and have access to the services to which they would like access. We could have dealt with this with a single European system, but we did not, because we believe that countries themselves are responsible for it. Moreover, it is a greater risk if you have one central European system. If it is organized in a good way and is properly controlled and if you contact each other, it is safer than having one large system. In addition, it does justice to the responsibility of countries. In this way we have regulated it and this regulation has developed it further. I now turn to the various points raised by the spokesmen. I will go into the details in that way as well. Mr Bosma wondered about the future resilience of what we are doing now. The technique is constantly evolving and he wondered whether we were always involved in the latest state of the art and always using it. Mr Bosma mentioned electronic identification in this context. The demands of electronic signatures are to some extent technologically neutral. This means that these requirements are part of the development of technology. The requirements are formulated in such a way that, if there are technical developments, these possibilities should be used. In addition, we have placed three layers in electronic identification. There is high reliability, substantial reliability and low reliability. Sometimes you can do with a low level of reliability. If Mr Bosma wants to have information about something that is happening in Slovakia and he signs up to ask for that information, then you can do with a low level of reliability as regards the electronic signature. There are no other major interests involved. For example, you can also participate in a tender. For this you want to request a tender form and then come up with a response. Then perhaps you could be satisfied with a substantial level of reliability. But there are also things where it is very important that the identity is very clear. Then there are high standards of reliability. So those different degrees are in it. But the demands have been formulated as technology neutrally as possible, so that we can always go along with the developments in technology. Mr Bosma said that there was little progress in the eID journey at BZK. He wondered how this was linked to what we were doing here with eIDAS. BZK is working on that, but that's not a process you're just gonna shove out of your sleeve. We are about to have an identification system in which different possibilities have been introduced. One possibility is to insert a chip into the card of our passport or driver's license, so that you can use it in that way. This is something that needs to be technically developed and then introduced over a period of 10 years, because those documents that have been issued are valid for 10 years and then replaced. The latest documents will be out in ten years' time, and it will take a considerable amount of time to make that available to everyone. A second possibility we have is DigiD. DigiD is a finite arrangement. There's gonna be another refinement, but at some point, DigiD's gonna go out. Something comes up instead of what we're doing with eRecognization. It's going to be further worked out and that's going to be Idensys. This will not only benefit businesses but also citizens. BZK is working on how this whole system is going to look, with various possibilities to work responsibly with electronic identification. It's covered and laid down in a law. The intention is to bring the first tranche of this into procedure in the short term, and that is why we have moved forward with it. What is happening there is important, but it does not directly affect what we are doing with eIDAS. Part of the regulation is already in force, as I said, and to some extent it should enter into force in 2018. This will continue regardless of the progress of eID and the legislation at BZK. Once we have completed our system, which is now being worked on, we can notify it to the European Commission. Then other countries can ask us about that. Then we can talk about how we set it up and what other countries of quality think. Then there's an interaction. We can then make further improvements on this basis. At the same time as completing the system, we have our digital node available in the Netherlands. Then we can also receive data from other countries. We can also transfer our data to other countries. Then the trial begins. That process of notification, talking about it and making use of it will therefore apply to all countries. In this way, this system is gradually being built up throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u14	I have a question about keeping it up to date. At first, the Minister said that requirements were formulated which were technically neutral. I am very pleased with that answer, but the Minister says that if passports have been phased out, they may be provided with opportunities to link something to them. A passport like that lasts five years. If we choose a separate route via BZK, how do we keep it safe, if a passport lasts five years and the technique is attached to it for five years? I am also afraid that we will eventually have a system that is quickly followed and rolled out in the commercial world. Next, we may want to have a higher level at BZK, but that is lagging behind the path that is already being used much more in social traffic. I still see some risks in that. Can you describe that specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u15	My comment on technology-neutral was worded. There is a certain degree of technical neutrality. I think it is wise that we have done so, because the developments can be processed in this way and taken into account. When you build a system, you create a public means of inserting something into passports and driving licences, which gives us a highly qualified means of identification. Then that's something that lasts a certain period of time. That lasts as long as the document is valid. If we apply it for five years, it lasts for five years. If we make it ten years, it'll last ten years. But that's not the only way. Private signatures that meet the requirements can also participate. I've already indicated that DigiD can be upgraded one more time. I have also indicated that eRecognization will be further developed into Idensys, and that it will be a part of it. BZK is trying to set up this system right now. Once the system is set up and legally framed with the law in preparation, we can register it. It can then work from the Netherlands, as it can also work from other countries to the Netherlands. If we are in order in the Netherlands, it is intended that it can be used by our citizens in other countries of the European Union. Citizens and businesses in other countries of the European Union can also go to the Netherlands. We have created a focal point for this, which I will manage in Economic Affairs. In this way, we have set up a decentralised system. There is also peer pressure, mutual control, to ensure that the countries in which weaknesses occur also resolve them. In this way they contribute to the quality of the whole. Mr Bosma and Mrs Mulder asked about the fact that, as a supervisor in the Netherlands, the Telecom Agency is being set up instead of the ACM. Let's break up electronic identification and trust services. As regards electronic identification, I have already said that the countries keep each other sharp. As regards trust services, the Regulation lays down the requirements to be met, that there should be supervision and how supervision should work. We have looked at how this monitoring should work and found that the ACM was not best equipped to do so. Monitoring is mainly of a technical nature. Most of the technical expertise is with the Telecom Agency. We transferred the know-how at the ACM to the Telecom Agency and bundled it with the know-how that was already there. We have reinforced this with additional formation sites and added extra quality. The Telecom Agency has prepared itself thoroughly for it. At present, we are ready to play the supervisory role. I think we've organised that in such a good way. Mr Bosma also asked about the audits to be carried out to check the trust services. Trust services must comply with the requirements laid down in the Regulation. In order to verify their compliance, the qualified trust service provider shall carry out an annual audit. In the Netherlands it is done by the conformity assessment bodies. They're private companies. They make an external audit report, which then goes to the Telecom Agency. It will examine whether additional information is needed or whether the matter is in order. That's gonna happen every year. They're serious audits; they're working on it for a day or ten. In the other countries, it must be done in an equally serious way. The supervisor shall ensure that this is done. The system for this is laid down in the Regulation. Mr Bosma also asked about third countries, countries outside the European Union. At the moment, this is not the case, because no third countries have yet registered with the European Union to participate in their electronic identification, which will also allow their citizens and businesses to access services electronically in the countries of the European Union. There hasn't been a country that did this yet. If a country applies, the European Commission will assess whether the quality of the organisation in that country is sufficient in this respect. If that's the case, we can work with that country. If that is not the case, that country will not have access and will not have any problem with that. Ms Mulder wondered whether there have been children's diseases at the eIDAS node in the Netherlands. That is not the case. With the eIDAS hub, which comes to Economic Affairs, we have already gained some experience. Since last year we have been using it for pilots with Belgian and Dutch border farmers; I have just mentioned the examples. The latest software we use for this has also been actively tested and approved. We have also had an interaction with the European Commission on this issue, so we have got things in order with regard to the eIDAS node. There are no further problems at present which I have to discuss with the Chamber. I have already looked at the decentralised structure that has been chosen. We can talk about whether it would have been better to do it centrally. I do not think so, but at least that discussion is over, because the regulation is now in place and has already entered into force for the trust services. I therefore believe that this has been dealt with in an appropriate way. Mrs Mulder asked me to confirm that the data of citizens arriving in the node relate only to their first name, surname, place of birth and date of birth. I can confirm that. Moreover, the data only enter encrypted and remain there for a very short time. Until Mrs Klever, I say that this data does not remain there for two years or six months. They don't even stand there for minutes. It's seconds, fractions of seconds that are needed to check in such a system that it's true. If it's true, access will be granted. The personal data are then immediately removed from the node. So no personal data is stored in the nodes. The node's got them pinned down to make sure it's right. If the conclusion is drawn that this is the case, access will be given and the data will be gone immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u16	I asked a supplementary question. Those data are stored, even if it's short-lived. How do you make sure they're properly encrypted? Is that a demand that's being made? Is there a preventive protection at the front, so that at least the data is encrypted if there is a leak in any way? How important does the Minister think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u17	I agree with Mrs Oosenbrug. There are three things that matter here. It's limited data. It is also about personal data that are encrypted. Finally, these data are stored in the order of magnitude of fractions of seconds. That with each other gives optimum certainty. Mrs Mulder spoke about third countries. I've already gone into that. I have indicated that no third countries have yet come forward. I discussed the transition from the ACM to the Telecom Agency. Mrs Mulder also asked about the costs and benefits and how they relate. The regulation requires us to carry out monitoring. The Telecom Agency has inspectors available for this purpose. The costs shall consist of the Agency's personnel costs, the inspectors carrying out the monitoring and the inspectors carrying out the audits. The benefits are that we will have a certain system in return. We are given certainty as a result of the supervision that is being carried out. The costs incurred for this monitoring are a fraction of the benefits that it will ultimately bring to hundreds of thousands, if not millions of citizens, and to hundreds of thousands of companies that will be able to make use of it. If costs and benefits are in good proportion to each other, this is the case here. Mrs Mulder also asked about the second impact assessment. She says that the College has made personal data protection clear that it wants a second impact assessment. That second impact assessment is almost done. This concerns the possible connection of the eIDAS node to the future national system of electronic identification and authentication of citizens and businesses. That is the system currently being developed at BZK. Once there is, the eIDAS node should be connected to it. The question then is whether this is sufficient for each other in terms of privacy protection. A second assessment has been carried out, also in the light of what has been put forward by the College for Protection of Personal Data. That assessment's almost done. It is mainly intended for the situation that the system, which is not yet in place, is in place. That should then be connected to the node. So we are still talking about the future, but I think that we will have the assessment in the Chamber this year in December, so that you can also take note of it. For the regulation and for the legislative proposal that is now under discussion, this has no direct meaning. Mrs Mulder also asked when the unqualified trust services could be used. There are two types of trust services. They're qualified or unqualified. Mrs Mulder specifically asked when the unqualified trust services could be used and referred to page 10 of the explanatory memorandum. You have to remember, for example, that you need a permit for an event, or a hairdressing permit; in that order of magnitude. If something is happening in that area, it is not necessary that you meet the highest requirements and that they are qualified trust services. Then you should be able to do it in a simpler way. That is why we have this category, which can be used for this purpose. I think this is a very practical way of dealing with it. Mrs. Mulder spoke of malfunctions. All Member States have their own eIDAS node. Those nodes must meet the latest security requirements. If there is a malfunction, they must report it to the European Commission and to the other Member States. This means that the country itself must then ensure that the system is closed where there is a problem, so that the problem is immediately isolated and cannot move. We must then discuss with the other Member States what needs to be done to resolve this. That's the peer pressure I've been talking about before. In this way, the problem can then be resolved by the country concerned. Each Member State has a major interest in the proper functioning of the whole system and in the proper functioning of its own part of the overall system. If there's a problem, you have to report it. A joint solution is then being worked on. In the country concerned, the important first step can be taken immediately by closing down what needs to be closed down. We will, of course, follow this critically from the Netherlands. Mrs. Klever says it can be tampered with. Yeah, anything can be tampered with. Banknotes can be tampered with. It's possible to tamper with forms. You can come somewhere with a passport with a picture of your sister or your brother. Everything's imaginable. It is about trying to organise our society as well as possible, including our digital society, by building up maximum guarantees. We must combat fraud and tampering as much as possible. The system must be made file against it. If there are problems, then we must respond adequately to them. It cannot be that, because of the fact that we can be tampered with, we say that we do not use the Internet or that we do not use the digital possibilities. That's an unstoppable road. We must do it, but we must also pay great attention to the risks. Everything we're doing right now is primarily about that. We want to limit those risks. Mrs Mulder spoke about the accessibility of everything for people with disabilities. In all the work we have done so far, we have not noticed that there are specific problems for people with disabilities, other than in individual situations. If there is anything to be done in individual situations, for example a blind lawyer who must use a particular trust service, a personal solution must be found for her or him. We're available to do that. Just as you have banknotes and forms and passports, you also have this. You have to make this so that as many people as possible can use it as well as possible. Where there are individual problems and where we can meet them, we must have that willingness. And so do we. Mrs Mulder asked how we allow non-government websites to be accessible to people with disabilities. I don't have an answer for that. That's not what this bill is about either. Nor am I the minister who deals with websites other than government websites and their accessibility for people with disabilities. I propose that Mrs Mulder discuss this with my colleague from BZK. I come to the points raised by Mrs Oosenbrug. If there is a leak in electronic identification somewhere, the Member State concerned must take action itself. That Member State should report this and be open to interaction with other countries in order to reach a common solution. The Member State must then also implement this solution. This is how the regulation was designed. Why doesn't the National Cyber Security Centre get a pre-control function instead of ex post? It's not like the center has a controlling function. The supervision shall be carried out by the Agency Telecom. That's the sole responsibility for that. The National Cyber Security Centre of the Ministry of Security and Justice is mainly intended to help if there are problems. This provides assistance and advice in the event of incidents. Agency Telecom ensures that everyone abides by the rules and that in the context of avoiding problems, what needs to be done under the regulation is done. If there are then problems where advice or assistance is needed, then the National Cyber Security Centre is available. That is the intention that we have chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u18	The National Cyber Security Centre also has another function, namely that of a Computer Emergency Rescue Team (CERT), which is located in each country. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if it would just work together a little more. We were just talking about Estonia. I think there's gonna be an X-Road for Europe. We can support that. If something goes wrong in there, quick intervention is a requirement. That's what you do best by monitoring things in advance. That's what my question was about. Why don't we make sure that the Cyber Security Centre can monitor that network and see it in advance if something goes wrong, rather than saying afterwards: something went wrong and we're going to help you? Pre-checking is the key to trusting this system. If you really get the feeling that it's being watched carefully in advance, you might dare to use your electronic identity a little more. That was the thrust of my question. I hope I've made it clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u19	This is a European regulation. There are rules that apply now. It has also been said that this should be monitored. Monitoring must be organised on a country-by-country basis and must meet certain requirements. We could have done something like the National Cyber Security Centre, but that did not happen. It has been said that a supervisor must be appointed in a country. With us, that was ACM. We have come to the conclusion that it is best to have the Agency Telecom supervisor. Apart from that monitoring of the system and the action that the Agency will take, it is necessary to provide support. For this support, the Cyber Security Centre is available in the Netherlands. Mrs Oosenbrug said that it would be useful to look at this in a more European way and to see how cooperation between the Cyber Security Centres in the various countries can be achieved and how they can make a good contribution to the whole together. I think I will come back to the Chamber separately on this point, together with my colleague from security and justice. It is, of course, true that similar things are being done in all these countries in the sphere of aid and advice. Like Mrs Oosenbrug, I can very well imagine that this is something for which you could do things together, which you could organize together. I would like to comment on this on a separate occasion following what Mrs Oosenbrug has said. Mrs Oosenbrug said that there was a desire for a sufficient degree of confidentiality, but she felt that this was vague. She says that she would like to have a more detailed explanation of this. Signature with an electronic signature requires that it is sufficiently reliable for the purpose for which it is used. We are therefore ensuring that safety is at least as high as in the situation that there would not be electronic work but simply conventional traffic, as we have done so far, when the matter was not digitised. The Forum Standardisation, the centre of expertise in this field, has developed a tool to determine which signature is sufficiently reliable in practice for the different types of transactions. I've already indicated that different variants are possible. One time it is really necessary for the matter to be completely clear. Then there must be a qualified electronic signature. For example, for requesting information, it may also be possible to work with a less advanced electronic signature. That's a non-qualified signature. Depending on the use, one of the two may be eligible. I think that's very good. It is very good to link the qualified electronic signature to certain activities, certain actions, and make it possible for others to do it in a different way. I believe that the distinction we have made has set up an appropriate working method. Mrs Klever, with whom I have started, has indicated the problems she sees that might arise. I indicated to her that problems could indeed arise. Now there are problems and problems can also arise in the future. However, it is important that we facilitate digital development, as Mrs Mulder said. This facilitates that development. This makes it possible for Dutch citizens, if they have to do something in other countries of Europe, to do it digitally in an easy way. We make it possible for citizens and businesses from other countries of Europe to have easy access and finish their business in the Netherlands if they have to do something in the Netherlands. I think it's a good thing we're doing that. I think we've set this up in a responsible way. I therefore believe that the responsible facility that Mrs Klever would like to see has been set up. I told you, it's a regulation. So it has a direct effect. In part, she has already received it by July of this year. With regard to electronic identification, the Regulation should be drawn up by 2018. We are now working through this law to work that out, so that the Netherlands will comply with that regulation and benefit Dutch citizens. I believe that it is in the interests of those Dutch citizens and companies that progress should be made in this area in a responsible manner. I hope that in this way I have been able to create that conviction with Mrs Klever. I await the House's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u20	Thank you. I ask Members whether there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u21	If I may ask one question, Mr President, I no longer need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u22	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u23	The Minister said that the audits are carried out by commercial companies and that they are monitored by the public. I still want to learn some lessons from the Fyra survey. Are there also reality checks in practice in the public oversight of the companies carrying out those audits? This really looks at how things are going in practice and not just a check-in list is followed. So can the Minister assure us that this is really profound enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u24	I know Mr Bosma's expertise on this issue. I will therefore look into this further in the light of the attention he is calling for. The responsibility lies with Agency Telecom. Private organizations do this work. They make and deliver those audits. Mr Bosma says: it should not be the case that only a list is ticked off and then the matter is approved. He says: there must also be sufficient depth when it is needed. I understand this point of interest from him. I shall look into this in the way that Mr Bosma has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u25	I thank the Minister. When I talk about reality checks in this context, I actually mean to say that Agency Telecom sometimes passes the audit organisation and in practice looks at what the audit organisation has on paper. Is that report consistent with what the people at the agency see when they go to see for themselves? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u26	I got that right. Mr Bosma's comment seems to me to be a real comment from practice. He outlines how the Agency should operate in this area. It seems logical to me that this is how it happens. I will look into this and see how it will be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u27	Thank you. I'm completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-37.u28	For the sake of completeness, I repeat my question as to whether there is a need for the other Members to have a second term. I see that is not the case. I conclude from this that the Minister replied satisfactorily to the questions raised in the first term. That's not very common in the Chamber. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
