ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	I repeat the rules of the game: speaking time, including tabling any motions, is two minutes, except for Mr Klein, who gets half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. We had a good general consultation on 31 March Youth. However, I would like to make a statement from the Chamber on one point. If there's something going on with your child and you don't get out as a father or mother yourself, you only want one thing: good youth support. You want the cause of your child's problem to be removed or, if you can't, at least you'll be supported in how to deal with it and how to support your child so that he or she can live as ordinary a life as possible. Every mother or father wants her or his son or daughter to be okay. There has been a major reform. It is therefore very important to evaluate how this is going. It is also crucial not only to look at the child's symptoms but also to try to find out what the causes are. They could be outside the child. That is why the Youth Act is based on one family, one plan and one responsible youth aid provider. The VVD not only wants to evaluate the Youth Act but also the other laws in the social domain. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that an evaluation is planned for the Youth Act after three years instead of after the regular five years;]] [[noting that both the Social Support Act and the Participation Act will be reviewed after five years;]] [[Whereas in its fourth progress report, the Social Domain Transition Committee strongly recommends that the Wmo, the Youth Act and the Participation Act be considered and evaluated in conjunction with their complementary character;]] [[Whereas, moreover, three years is too short to reach a final judgment on a law that will bring about a transformation over several years;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the evaluation of the Youth Act after three years as an interim evaluation and to carry out the regular review after five years in conjunction with that of the Social Support Act and the Participation Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Burg and Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-516]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	This is written out in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	Finally, there is another point. We are still getting reports even more: judgments of the judge that children are placed in closed youth care without the consent of the children's court. You can't and can't do that. We've talked about this before. I ask the Secretary of State to consult with these parties on this matter, to ask the inspection why it is not maintained here and to inform us how it will be enforced and what sanctions will be imposed. This is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. Youth care institutions are going bankrupt, waiting lists are increasing, and bureaucracy is taking unprecedented forms. Youth care institutions spend on average 30% of their time red tape, on paperwork. That time and that money can't be spent on children. I found a shocking example of this in the municipalities of Alphen aan den Rijn and Kaag and Braassem. They weren't gonna do it themselves, they were gonna outsource it on TenderNed. For those who do not know TenderNed: TenderNed is a kind of auction site, a kind of marketplace where municipalities themselves can place a contract for certain products, such as electric door openers, hazard insurance and municipal green maintenance. And then you will also find the child as a product on this auction site. The said municipalities want one organisation to offer 70% of all care at the lowest price. This will help to increase the scale, not reduce the scale. To be honest, this makes me sick: the care as a market and the child as a product. The Secretary of State stands by and looks at it. I now show the Secretary of State the pile of paper that is the printout of the documents on TenderNed from the municipalities Alphen aan den Rijn and Kaag and Braassem alone. But so there are many other municipalities that are only dealing with this bureaucratic madness. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the municipalities of Alphen aan den Rijn and Kaag and Braassem award their youth support tasks through auction site TenderNed;]] [[whereas these municipalities introduce more market forces into their youth care tasks;]] [[noting that this type of procurement increases bureaucracy rather than decreases;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the procurement of youth assistance tasks through auction sites such as TenderNed immediately and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-517]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u7	Finally, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u9	... care is not a market and the child is not a product.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u10	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u11	Yeah, I know, but I still want to say it. I urge the Secretary of State to put an end to this right away, because a child is not a product.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr Voordewind waived his speaking time. I shall now give the floor to Mr Klein. He was not present at the general consultation, but he has the right to speak here, albeit very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. I use my limited time to draw attention to one poignant problem. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to human rights, every human being, and therefore every child, has the right to education aimed at the full development of human personality;]] [[noting that at present a certain group of children, who have heavy forms of autism, have a developmental disadvantage or sensory limitations, have overall exemption from compulsory schooling;]] [[noting that this includes this group of children under the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz) or Youth Care Act;]] [[noting that a significant proportion of this group of children live in an institution where they are offered a form of day-to-day treatment mainly aimed at keeping them "in business";]] [[noting that these children are often not offered development-oriented treatment here because they are considered "low intelligent";]] [[noting that this is often unjustified, which leaves their potential unexploited;]] [[Whereas a development programme such as ABA (Applied Behavior Analysis) can develop this potential;]] [[noting that ABA is a scientifically proven method;]] [[calls on the Government to further examine how these children can be given their right to development by making available the ABA treatment method,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-518]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. I am not going to make a motion on this subject today. I do have some questions. Reforms in youth care are in full swing. In general discussions at the end of March, we discussed what has been going well so far and what is going significantly less well. Of course there is now far too little time to repeat all this, but one still runs into what is related to the transition to the age of 18, so the difference between 18-min and 18-plus. Young people with a slightly intellectual disability who are 18 years of age disappear from the health care institution where they live and as a result they often disappear from the picture. Last month, a broadcast by ZEMBLA showed that this problem is still going on. There would be legal means to do something about this, but apparently they are not working enough or are at least unknown. Shortly after that broadcast, I asked for a debate and a letter in order to get things straight. Since that letter has still not been sent to the Chamber, I would like to ask you a few more questions. If the Secretary of State now gives good answers, we can delete the debate that I asked for, which eventually became a 30-member debate. However, I would like to know from the Secretary of State what legal means exist for the target group 18-min and 18-plus and how these resources are communicated. How often is these resources actually used and are they sufficient or not? The broadcast of ZEMBLA, but certainly also the movie about Hyba, gives a completely different and very sad picture of young people who think they can handle the world, but eventually break because of their limitations. As far as I am concerned, the urgency is high. If the Secretary of State cannot answer this question today, but can promise me that he will finally send that letter to the Chamber within a week, I am satisfied for this moment. It is clear, however, that we need to talk about this group of young people in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. Two questions have been put and three motions have been tabled. I'll deal with the questions first. Mrs Van der Burg asked a question about placement in closed youth care without authorisation. We had the necessary exchange of views during the debate. I asked the inspection to find out and she will come forward with a report on what exactly is going on. I expect to be able to deliver the results of that inspection monitoring within a few weeks. In this way, I would like to answer Mrs van der Burg's question. I think that we exchanged together during the debate that, of course, it is not the intention to place children without an authorisation. If that has happened, then we need to find out what the reasons for it have been and whether it can or cannot be. If possible, we should consider whether this can be maintained if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u16	Do you mean "within a few weeks" before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u17	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u18	I also wanted to ask that question, so thank you, Mr President. I thank the Secretary of State for his commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u19	I thank Mrs van der Burg for her question. I come to Mrs Keijzer's question. I also think it is very important that vulnerable young people should be able to count on help and support even after their 18th birthday if this is necessary. I believe that the opportunities have increased since the municipalities are fully responsible for helping children, not only with regard to youth aid but also with regard to a number of other matters. I have explicitly raised this point for my consultation with municipalities and health insurance companies to see if we can create a much more continuous line. When you're 17, chances are pretty good you're going to be 18. This means that we must ask institutions to provide much more for what is needed to provide additional assistance if necessary. Moreover, the position of the young person himself often plays a role. When the help of an institution is terminated because someone turns 18, that person often chooses not to get help anymore, while causing problems. Following the debate we had at the time, we also examined, at Mrs Keijzer's request, the legal possibilities and inability to create these continuous lines. My colleague from Security and Justice and I have asked the WODC to take stock of the legal instruments available to assist adult at-risk young people and what the obligations on that point might be, in response to Mrs Keijzer's request. I am hopeful that I will be able to give an initial picture of the progress report on youth that was published in early June. I suggest that Mrs Keijzer take it with her. I do not know if we will have the result of the investigation, but we can at least indicate what the first images are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u20	And WODC stands for Scientific Research and Documentation Centre of the Ministry of Security and Justice if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u21	You're not mistaken, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u22	Very good. May I ask you to use less abbreviations? People are also listening with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u23	I'll come to the motion in part No. 516 by Mrs van der Burg. She's actually saying two things. A number of evaluations have been agreed. That of the Youth Act has been accelerated, but it is very important to see that evaluation in the light of the broad decentralisation. A number of organisations have also called for this. That does seem important to me. The law says we have to evaluate the law after three years. We will. Mrs van der Burg asks whether this can also be seen as an image of the decentralisation of youth care and says that we need to look at how that fits in with the broader picture. I think that's wise. So we're not gonna do the evaluation, because it's given in the law. However, it is up to the Chamber to weigh them. I think it would be wise to do it in the light of the other laws, because we are pursuing an integrated policy in the municipalities. This seems to me to be a wise proposal and I should like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u24	I would point out that, in the light of the amendment to Rule 66 of our Rules of Procedure, you can also accept the motion, provided that there is no objection to it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u25	Since this is an evaluation that is in the law and the new cabinet will eventually have to make the weighting, I think it would be wise to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u26	I was just pointing out the technical possibilities. I see Mrs Bergkamp from D66 at the interrupting microphone. Apparently, she has a question about the State Secretary's opinion on a motion by Mrs Van der Burg and Mrs Ypma. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u27	You've always been so good at putting it together. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u28	It's not that common. That is why I find this every time with some surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'll explain the relevance. I have tabled an amendment to evaluate the Youth Act after three years. The motion now contains the word "intermediary evaluation." I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about that. As far as I am concerned, that is a legal assessment with everything. Can the Secretary of State also include the Long-Term Care Act in the evaluation? After all, we all know that it is also an important part of some of the problems of coordination in long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u30	I thought Mrs van der Burg's motion was concerned with that problem between quotes, because we agreed on a number of legal deadlines for evaluation. In the case of the Youth Act, following Mrs Bergkamp's amendment, we said that we are doing it a little earlier. What Mrs van der Burg is trying to achieve, if I understand her correctly, is that it is right and that we are indeed going to do so with everything. But the conclusions that you draw will have to be seen in conjunction with other evaluations that have a different legal rhythm. I therefore interpret Mrs van der Burg's proposal as follows: we are doing this evaluation, but if you want to draw final conclusions on cohesion and decentralisation, you must also include the assessments of the other laws. What she says, I interpret it in this way: let us consider it as an interim evaluation, because we have to draw the total conclusions about the total.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u31	It seems logical to me that you will look at things in conjunction, but there is an important law missing, namely the Long-Term Care Act. Isn't that part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u32	An evaluation has also been agreed for this, as is the case for any law. Only the timing differs. I think it would be wise for the Chamber itself to decide when it would like to draw its own conclusions. Anyway, that's up to the Chamber and also to the new Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u33	There's been a misunderstanding. Mrs Van der Burg asks to consider this in conjunction with the Participation Act, the Wmo and the Youth Act. The Long-Term Care Act is not in that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u34	Excuse me, that seems to me to be a valid point. We can add that as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u35	This means that this motion will still have to be changed. We cannot just leave that adjustment hanging in the air here. I'll give you that. If you wish, you will have to change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u36	Now I'm going to deal with the motion in part No. 157. Mrs Kooiman started her speech on the motion with the question: are children not products? I agree with her. That's not true. It is precisely in this respect that we have deliberately included a number of safeguards in the Youth Act. There is a youth aid obligation for the municipalities. Municipalities must ensure that good quality care is purchased that meets the professional requirements that you can make of it. Now Mrs Kooiman says that she does not like the way in which a number of municipalities make the purchase. It seems to me that we should not sit on the seats of the municipalities as to how they are going to buy care. I note that the Youth Act provides sufficient guarantees for the quality of care and the way in which it is designed. Moreover, I very much agree with Mrs Kooiman that we should make a very sharp attack on unnecessary bureaucracy. The Chamber will soon have a plan of action from me to further combat bureaucracy in the broad area of decentralisation. That letter will be sent to the Chamber shortly. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u37	Ms Kooiman would like to receive an explanation of the opinion of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u38	If we leave this to local authorities, we'll get this package of paper. This is only from two municipalities. All municipalities have the possibility to offer these kinds of items on auction sites: children as a product.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u39	You've already argued that. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u40	I ask the Secretary of State to put a stop to this as a system administrator and say: I don't want this anymore, so we're gonna take this package of paper and we're gonna bang it in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u41	If this package of paper can be part of the plan of action to reduce bureaucracy, I will certainly take it with me. The motion asks for something else, namely to prohibit a municipality from using this method for purchasing. I think that goes too far. We didn't decentralise for nothing. However, we do not have safeguards in the law for nothing either. I've reported two things. First of all, I want to ensure that this is also my duty to ensure that the safeguards are respected in the law. Secondly, I stand alongside you, Mrs Kooiman, in the fight against bureaucracy. You will soon be able to expect a further letter from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u42	Now the motion in part No. 518.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u43	Then I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that he is going to ban auction sites like TenderNed, because they make this possible. As a result, this cabinet can enable market forces in youth care. I want the Secretary of State here, now and today, to say that children are not products and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u44	Children are not a product. We are also working towards this by including a number of safeguards in the Youth Act, both in terms of quality and in terms of the obligations of the municipality in terms of providing youth assistance. We will hold all the municipalities to that, but we should not sit on the seat of the municipality for the design of the procurement. Purchasing must be designed with as little bureaucracy as possible and must also meet the requirements of the law. The Chamber should not prescribe how the municipality regulates its procurement. So I'm sticking to my judgment. In the motion on piece number 518 the government is asked to prescribe that the Applied Behavior Analysis method is used. I propose that we ask the Dutch Youth Institute if this method needs more attention. The Dutch Youth Institute manages the database of effective youth interventions. I think it is premature to conclude here that this method is the most appropriate. For this we have the Dutch Youth Institute that manages the database. I am prepared to discuss Mr Klein's question with the Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u45	I am pleased that the Secretary of State is prepared to do so. If he can indicate when he can reconnect this, I'm prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u46	Perhaps it is a good idea to include this in the preliminary report on youth which will be published in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u47	Then I'm prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u48	At the request of Mr Klein, I propose his motion (31839, No. 518). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u49	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled.
