ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. Every student, student, teacher, parent, school leader, director and supervisor deserves to come to their senses in our educational system. Governance and administrative power are basically about the search for the right interpretation of roles. This is characterised by lively discussions, particularly in higher education, both recently and in a distant past. Mr Rinnooy Kan referred to this in the light of his own history. Indeed, in the 1960s and 1970s, the occupation of the Virgin House, as a protest against the distance between government and teacher, was a symbol for many. For some a positive symbol, for others a very negative symbol. The result in the following years was participation by co-government, with the so-called WUB, the University Administrative Reform Act 1970. In the 1990s this model was perceived by administrators and students as not very effective. The LSVb and ISO wrote in 1996: the lack of a clear point of contact and a clear allocation of responsibility makes it more difficult for students to address their institutions on the quality of education. That is an interesting quote, because although students wanted more participation, they also wanted to know in my words "rotaryness": know who you can address to. The reaction at the end of last century was to find a clear division of roles with the focus on accountability and professionalisation, the so-called MUB, Ritzen's bill on the modernisation of the university administration, also recalled here. With the governance model that is now in place, we want to ensure that we create clear frameworks to achieve societal goals and to properly position professionals, students and students within the institutions. I believe that we see this bill in this long tradition. I would like to emphasise to Mrs Martens that, as far as I am concerned, it is not just a response, or not primarily, to the incidents that we have seen recently. I thought I made a bill a year and a half ago on the designation power, in order to intervene and instruct supervisory boards to intervene in a board if there is indeed evident mismanagement, as you could have seen retroactively with Inholland, Amarantis and ROC Leiden. This bill is actually much more about the long-term development of the balance and balance between the participants in the educational community, as Mr Rinnooy Kan mentioned. I recognize that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u2	I am pleased that the Minister is saying this, because the explanatory memorandum makes it explicit as a reason and background for the legislative proposal. So I'm glad the Minister is now quoting the broader framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u3	We have, of course, referred to these incidents in the explanatory statement, because they are relevant, also to see how to prevent them. I believe that good participation can help to prevent such situations. But this bill is not just a response to that. So it's not a rule reflex, but it's also, in your words, an incentive to get to the right conversation and to ethics in the organization. Or, as Mr Ganzevoort said, to jointly shape the educational community. A school or university is indeed not a cookie factory. A school or university is neither a company nor an enterprise. So I agree with Mr Rinnooy that there are many similarities, but also many differences. Here's what I'm gonna say. The Secretary of State and I had a very extensive debate with the House of Representatives two or three years ago to see if we should go to other models, including governance. At the end of the day, it was concluded that this is neither desirable nor necessary. However, it is desirable to introduce a number of changes to the existing law. I'm, I'm just being honest, pragmatic. It might have been more revolutionary to leave behind a whole new law. There are people who think this is the greatest good for rulers. I do not like it very much, but I do like it that we work together to ensure that we have a law that is up-to-date. This will not be the last time we make changes. We all see that, in particular, higher education, but also the whole of education, has to do with very big changes, for example because education is becoming more and more place- and time-bound. In the MBO I see that students and students are getting more and more lessons on the company floor and learning there, also for the general courses. In higher education, I see that digitalization is taking off, with online lectures. There will soon be very new forms for this, not only of education, but also of governance in the future. In secondary education, for example, we also see that pupils are increasingly crossing the border and that internationalisation is being encouraged. All this contributes to a lot of dynamics in the future. To the CDA and D66 I would like to say that administrative power is not an individual ambition. My highest ambition is to ensure the best possible education for all students and students. I do think that administrative power is important in this respect, in order to ensure that good education is discussed in the right places and at the right moments. That is why I myself am very enthusiastic about the changes in the training committees. This means that, precisely where education is at the centre, there is now more balance and that the conversation can be held between students and teachers. As Mr Bruijn said, this governance is important, especially in higher education with the many stakeholders. After all, we are dealing not only with education, but also with knowledge institutions, research institutions, municipalities, companies and university-medical centres. It is important to strike a good balance there. Previously, we had the debate in the House of Representatives on whether we should now go to a completely different model. In the end, it has been chosen to continue on the path taken. I say to Mrs Gerkens that this law is not alone and certainly not a reaction to last year's Virgin House occupation. After all, the law was already in the Lower House when that occupation took place. As a result of this occupation you can discuss a lot and draw many different conclusions. Perhaps that has formed the input of some in the House of Representatives, but for me it has made no difference. I note that Mrs Gerkens does not think the law is ambitious enough, but at the same time I hear Mr Schalk say that he thinks the law is far too ambitious. I hope we can come to the conclusion that we have struck a balance. On this theme, it is very good to go through the middle and try to bind as many parties as possible. That was also the case in the House of Representatives, with many amendments. I think that in the end we have succeeded in assigning to many groups an important point for them and, at the same time, not to lose sight of it at all. This has created a balance, including between all those parts of the whole governance. Mrs Nooren referred to the OECD report: the review on the Dutch system. She rightly notes that our education is good in many respects, including internationally, but also that there are improvements, such as eliminating quality differences between school boards. What we do here can contribute to that. One of the most striking conclusions from the OECD report is that many teachers and school leaders in the Netherlands do everything on their own. There is very little cooperation and little tendency to pull together and do peer review with each other. A good structure, within which you have a good conversation, can help. As far as I am concerned, that may also be a contradiction, although I have given some of them a different association than I myself admit. I do not mean to contradict: the monsters and, by definition, say no. I mean contradict the way things are going in the Chamber. I have experience that a lot of legislative proposals get better by talking to different stakeholders and to this Chamber, but also to the other side. That sharpens your mind and makes you ask the question again: are we really doing the right thing and doing it right? This can very well lead to dialogue, as I have heard several people say here. It doesn't have to play people against each other at all, but it can contribute to a solution that everyone can agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u4	I am going to go into that, because this seems to me to be a very important point. With all due respect for the environment in which we are now in, the role of "Her Majesty's Most Loyal Opposition," as it is so beautiful in English, is an essentially different role than one you expect from the stakeholders in the educational community. Where some parties, in particular mine, have questioned the often used word "controversy" in the text in and around the law, this is mainly due to our hope and expectation that the role that students or students in such an educational community in particular can play will be much more the character of co-thinking, of being consulted early and of playing a role in the initial plans than a role that will only come into view after the plan has been made. This leads to contradiction, which I do not want to deny at all that it can also be fruitful, but which seems less happy to me as a metaphor for the desired student input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u5	Let me take away that misunderstanding, because that is not how I regard the term 'contradiction'. Good participation can only exist if there is a link between the structure of participation and culture. This requires something from everyone involved, especially to think at an early stage about the question: how do we have a good conversation with each other? And it also calls on the board to consider the question: how do we ensure that participation gets the right information? As a driver, I have experienced that this can be quite complicated from time to time. I understand that in the broad contradiction. Nor have I noticed that this word is often used in the texts, because I did not regard it as a fundamental criticism of the directors, but rather as: being in discussion with each other and looking at each other from different perspectives whether we are doing well on the basis of that common desire to achieve the best possible education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u6	It's a good thing the Minister explains how she looks at contradiction. In my contribution, I referred in particular to the word 'counterforce'. That is perhaps the heavier equivalent of the word "contradiction." Does the Minister know what I mean when I put that against each other in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u7	Maybe conflict is getting even closer to what I mean by how I'd like to see that conversation. But counterpower obviously means that there has to be a certain level playing field. Participation, students or students must have a position from which they can engage in that conversation with directors. To some extent, the term "counterforce" is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u8	What strikes me in this conversation is that there is an interesting semantic connection between participation and contradiction, whereas in some sense we mean the same. In any case, within the informal process, the entire run-up to the final moment when formal participation also plays a role, you want to create precisely the dynamics in which that conversation will take place, and at least speaking to each other. I myself do not see the contradiction between 'along' and 'along' in this case, even though that is semantic again complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u9	I think that was also at the heart of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u10	Is the word "conversation" perhaps better than the word "conversation"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u11	That sounds quite anointing to me. If there is a problem, I would like to challenge schools and universities to put it on the table properly and not expect agreement to be reached in advance. Sometimes you get to agree with each other because you first started arguing with each other. I can see in practical examples that this can be achieved with responsible participation. Perhaps the truth lies in the middle of conflict, opposition, participation and collusion. I attach great importance to the need for clear roles from the 1990s, the resistance to roll, one has to know who is capable of dealing with them, together with the need for balance in those roles from the 1960s. So it is not just about participation, but about involvement, about the critical conversation and about the necessary support. Mrs Martens asked a question about this. I shall come back to that when I answer the more specific questions on participation. Mr Rinnoy Kan asked in general terms about the relationship between horizontal and vertical responsibilities, and Mr Ganzevoort asked to evaluate his own policy and not to react too cramped. That has to do with each other. I share Mr Rinnoy Kan's view of a university and a university of higher education, perhaps it also applies to other institutions which, on the one hand, are rooted in society, but, on the other hand, operate intellectually independently of it. He was right to point out that universities are perhaps the longest existing institutions in Europe. They have been changing for centuries, and I have just said: I think they will remain so in the future. Nevertheless, there is always a certain continuity in teaching, in discussing all kinds of themes and in questioning, often also in the administrative structure. I attach great importance to the fact that, in this long tradition, responsibility takes place mainly internally. It is necessary to trust the internal governance of institutions so that discussions on education and its quality take place as far as possible where they belong, namely among students, teachers, pupils, parents and administrators. In order to do that, it is important that the checks-and-balances are in place internally. In doing so, I can imagine that a stronger horizontal accountability can have an impact on the way in which we set up vertical accountability. I just happened to talk to the presidents of the universities' supervisory boards about this last night, with whom I do so once in a while with the universities of applied sciences where we are actually dealing with governance and other current issues. They also want to take more and more responsibility, especially in guaranteeing quality. Where boards of supervision used to have an audit committee or a committee of restitution, they all now have quality committees. I very much welcome that. I'll be on institution accreditation and that kind of discussion in a minute. If these committees run smoothly, the need to intervene from above is less great. We shall come back to that when it comes to performance agreements. They're being evaluated now. That is an excellent vertical justification. It is an individual institution that has made agreements with the Minister. We are going to work on quality agreements within the framework of the study advance. This will be an interesting discussion on how they will take shape between vertical and horizontal accountability. I would like to do this particularly once the evaluation of the performance agreements has been completed. We can also learn, I say to Mr Ganzevoort, from all the discussions we have had on training accreditation and institution accreditation. I say honestly that I would have liked to go one step further, but the House of Representatives did not want that. That's a very complicated discussion with the NVAO. When do you say: if the institution has everything in order, are we going to look less closely at the training courses? And when are you gonna keep your eyes on me? We will certainly have that discussion. Mr Ganzevoort also asked what other ways I wanted to look critically at our own policies. I have already mentioned accreditation and performance or quality agreements, but it also applies to macro-efficiency. We now have a committee for the MBO, which also looks at the effectiveness of the institutions. Institutions can also report on their own, so that it does not really come to me until there is disagreement. We do this more often in policy preparations. I have really made a tour of the country on a number of themes, at higher education and at MBO. This also applies to the Teacher Agenda and to the development of the National Science Agenda. Education2032 we also prepare for many topics in conversation. In modern jargon, that could be called co-creation, but I think that is a bit of a fashionable term, although it quite rightly indicates that from the very first moment, as Mr Rinnoy Kan said, your policy has to work together and discuss with each other. So you shouldn't just submit it to participation when you've actually finished it. I say to Mr Bruijn that I hereby confirm the commitments made in the written report. I believe that Mrs Martens had asked for this too. Well, at least we've had it. This brings me to the questions that have been asked about participation in particular. Then I will ask the specific questions that relate to directors and supervisors, then the training committees, and then I have a number of other questions. Then you know a little bit about what to expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u12	Do you think you'll be able to do that in about 45 minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u13	That depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u14	Pure speaking time, if you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u15	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u16	Okay, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u17	I have already said that participation should be about dialogue and that we should not approach participation on the basis of mistrust, I say to Mrs Martens, but from a good and transparent culture. A culture in which participation is also not seen as a punishment for directors. I received the JOB monitor yesterday from the MBO students. I also said there: the JOB monitor should be seen by drivers as free and for nothing constructive commentary on things that can be even better. On both sides, I would argue that we should not approach this in terms of mistrust, but in terms of trust and, above all, from the perspective of improving together the education and the educational community, which everyone is part of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u18	I'm glad to hear this, because we don't see it that way. We had read the bill or the amendment to the bill in such a way, because of the terminology that has been discussed earlier, contradiction, opposition and so on. So now that the Minister says so, that's just nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u19	Let me be clear about that then. I do this proposal more from the point of view of critical friend. You can expect from the educational community and from teachers, especially when they are involved in co-determination, that they also feel involved and therefore do not behave as a consumer student, although there will also be students at every institution who do not leave much room for what is going on. That is the case everywhere in society. Several Members asked if we have not done enough in recent years. Have not the participation bodies been given more powers in recent years? My conclusion is that this has actually only happened very recently. In fact, with the Law on study advance rights, there have only been added for participation. It can now decide on the main lines of the budget. We are adding a number of elements to this, in order to further increase the involvement of students and teachers. However, this can only be done if it is not just about structure, but also about culture. There must be a culture that encourages it to look together to see whether everything is not only done according to the rules, but also whether it is done in a way that suits the organisation in which one sits. It is not just about checks-and-balances in regulations or in a university, college or school regulations for a student council. It is also a question of considering how these rights can best function. I find it interesting that many students and student organisations are also involved. I am going to a conference of the ISO tomorrow, which will present for the second time a participatory monitor and make concrete suggestions on how to improve culture. I recently had students from Utrecht University, who had developed very interesting ideas about what is even more possible than the law says. Following a publication by David Van Reybrouck, they examined with their directors whether, for example, there would be any other way of agreeing, with draw, to compare with Van Reybrouck's proposals for parliaments and elections. I know that there is already an experiment in Amsterdam with a student assessor, who is a member or participates in the board of directors, in order to be the linking pin between participation and the board. I am very keen that this culture is well established and that we look beyond what is now in the law. After all, the law provides for a minimum provision, which does not have to be left alone. I say to Mr Ganzevoort that I find the idea of testing gardens very interesting. I do, however, insist that this is done from the bottom up. I don't want to force that from above. We must take the initiative ourselves. The promotion also includes support for the participation referred to by Mrs Nooren. I do this with the project Jij Besluit Mee, which we supported in 2014 to improve the professionalism of student councils and teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u20	I welcome the Minister's heartfelt response to the idea of working with test rooms and experimental rooms. There is no need for a legal framework for this; that space is simply there. However, the question is how to stimulate cultural change. On that point, I would like to see the Minister's somewhat more proactive attitude. It should say that it considers it important that it should happen, that it should encourage and enable it and that it should bring the institutions together. However, it is not just about students. It is also about what happens in secondary education, about the MBOs and about the institutions themselves. So I would like the Minister to take the lead in facilitating the cultural change that we seem to think is important to each other. That does not mean that it must take concrete steps itself. That must indeed be done bottom-up. However, as far as facilitating and stimulating cultural change is concerned, it can do more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u21	I'd be happy to. However, let us also note that we still have work to do with this legislation to ensure that the general cultural change is properly achieved. Several members have referred to articles in the Volkskrant on the attendance rate of students in recent elections. That doesn't make any sense, to put it that way. I think this is enough reason to change the law so students can come. So we will have to do something about that. Apart from that, I'm already in the process of stimulating. I would like to discuss this topic with the LSVb and the ISO tomorrow on the Day of Participation. JOB, the student organization in the MBO, also receives structural funding from me to support the student councils. They do this in different ways. In the framework of the 'Strengthening participation' project, PO/VO cooperates with the sectoral councils, Parents & Education, the LAKS and the unions to stimulate culture. This theme would also be good on the Day of the Education Board that we have for three years. We can organize that day next September again. But, once again, I can only do that if those examples and proposals come in large part from the students, the administrators and the teachers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u22	I understand they have a big part to play in that. This applies to all sectors. We discussed earlier, outside the meeting, how VWS is taking all kinds of initiatives on cultural change from the Ministry. They are meant to give energy to the already existing, important movement. It would be good to cross-sectorally consider how to learn from each other. In doing so, I would like to emphasise the system responsibility of the Minister, despite the fact that the people must do it themselves and the initiatives must come from them. Many interesting things are also happening internationally. The Minister could also present these things, so that the sectors can take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u23	I understand very well what Mr Ganzevoort means. We already have a lot of these kinds of programmes that stimulate this and that share good developments. That is one of the reasons why we initiated that Day of Education Board. There is a sharing of the issues faced by primary school administrators up to university. We also ask someone every year, a critical outsider looking at education, to write an essay for this. And there is also the initiative of the Day of Participation. These are the times when it must be done in the specific area of participation. I would very much like to look at how we can organise this even more cross-sectorally, as we do with all organisations on Education Day. At the same time, I note that participation in primary and secondary education has a very different form than participation in, for example, a university. The question then is how useful it is to have to leave people together. At the MBO we do this with the support of the participants' councils. I've been there before. All participants' councils from the Netherlands then come together. They don't just get a course, they also talk to each other about how things can be better. Maybe it'll help if I promise to write again what we're all doing in this area. I'll give you my word. I would also like to say that in the coming period I will be taking a number of Gremia to see if there are any further ideas on what we can do. But some ideas need to be tried at one institution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u24	Here again we have a very important point to address, with the desirability of a good culture, in which an educational community can flourish and grow. I see a great deal of agreement between almost all the parties who have spoken here and the Minister himself on what kind of culture that should be. The question before us is whether the formal structure contained in this legislative proposal will contribute to this maximum. I would be interested to hear from the Minister about that. Many of the tightenings we are experiencing now seem to me inspired by what is common in the world of the works council, also in the language and in the methodology. There is a large range of consent and advisory rights. The jargon is a perfect match. My main concern is that this may work, but not necessarily. For this reason alone it may be desirable to consider different philosophies of participation than we have discussed so far. I myself am far from convinced that this background is the ideal way to bring about the desired culture for an educational community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u25	In the beginning, I've already gone into that. With your colleagues on the other side, in the Lower House, we had a very extensive discussion about this in 2013. We then inventoried what possible other models are. With the House of Representatives we finally found out that this is the most desirable model. It was once derived from the model of works councils in companies, but it has developed into a model tailored to education, with different possibilities. Some institutions have an or for the employees and a student council for the students. Others put that together. That's all specific to education. Above all, we found that improvements would be more pragmatic than a completely different model in principle. That is why I am saying at the moment: it is perhaps an interesting discussion, but above all a theoretical one. After all, with colleagues on the other side, two years ago, we deliberately chose to continue along this road for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u26	But precisely because of the long history of the Minister himself and the prospect of the many changes that await us, a bit of theoretical discussion is sometimes not wrong either. I therefore hope that, in line with what the Minister has just said to Mr Ganzevoort, there will also be room for that discussion and for it to be fed by ideas and views developed elsewhere, outside the Netherlands, in the world of education and perhaps even tried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u27	I admit that I will give examples of this in the letter I have already promised to Mr Ganzevoort. These will then be examples I mentioned earlier in a letter to the House of Representatives. I have no objection whatsoever to taking this together in this context, so that at least the Chamber has it together in one piece. Then Mr Rinnooy can see examples of other countries and other universities, such as the University of Leuven, where elections were held and the example of Scotland where elections were held. I believe John Cleese was a very popular candidate there to become university president. So sometimes it's very funny, but the question is whether it always leads to the best governance and the best governance. Mr. Chairman. Whatever model you have, it is very important that there is training for the co-workers. Several members, including Mrs Martens and Mrs Nooren, have referred to this. Mr Schalk also spoke about it. It is, of course, extremely important that this training is there and that the administration takes responsibility for it. Participation monitors show that there is still a real improvement possible. My own experience, by the way, is that it is sometimes quite complicated to think about what gives you the participation. A driver can very easily provide so much information that a participation body drowns in it. So you have to think very carefully about what information you give at what time. That's a big responsibility of drivers. I would also like to say this to Mr Schalk, who was wondering whether you could organise the right counter-force with a participation council which might have to deal with too many changes. Yes, then it is very important that there should be a proper transfer, that there should be the necessary training and that there should be responsibility for participation. I note that many participation councils really want to work on this, but that they must have support. That is why good information is not enough, I would say to Mrs Martens. Explanation can help to increase support, but of course more is really needed. Mrs Nooren asked whether the measures were adequate. No. In the context of cultural change, we really need to anchor the structures, have discussions with different actors to change governance culture and be active in supporting good examples. That's what we do with the participation monitor, among other things. Mrs. Nooren asked about this. For higher education, I will consult with student organisations about the continuation of the participation monitor after 2017. I will also discuss the desired frequency. Then I come to talk about the turnout rates. Among other things, D66 and the PvdA asked for this. I can only say that it is important that the turnout rates go up. A representative representation of students is of course important for a high turnout. A low turnout does not mean that participation is always ignored in important decisions. The other way around, it cannot be the conclusion that students or students are not interested at all. It is about good, visible facilitation and support. That does require that we do not do it in one day and for one year. He's a long-term investment. To this end, I have included a number of proposals in the legislative proposal. The election of the training committees, which are given more powers, good facilitation and commitment from the college to electoral procedures and the system for fee-free administration can all help. Ms Nooren asked whether directors could use the quality or legitimacy of student representatives or pupil representatives of participation bodies as an argument if those bodies were to give negative advice on whether or not to agree to a decision. The short answer is no. Given what I said earlier, I hope it will be clear why not. Mrs Nooren also asked about the Disputes Committee. This committee should not just look procedurally. If there is a disagreement, the Committee on Disputes must consider in its assessment whether the Board has been able to reach a reasonable decision. It is therefore not obvious that the committee will deviate from an argument based on the quality and legitimacy of participation. Mr Schalk wanted to know if it did not act as a cripple from the participation. If it were only a "no-saying machine" that was going to make it difficult for the administration, that would indeed be the case. However, just as I do not have the impression that this Chamber is always only out to get in our way, I also think that good participation that is well supervised will not do so. We have also put in place safeguards in the law to prevent a government from becoming lame, should this happen unexpectedly when it comes to participation. Mr Schalk has also asked whether this is the right gremium to act as a counter-force. I wouldn't know a better gremium. For the sake of fairness, I think that he and I differ on how the relations of authority lie. I do not think they are a given, but they can contribute to better decision-making from a clear division of roles and resistance to roles. A number of questions have been asked about the budget. Mr Schalk asked whether the administration would not be curtailed with the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget. No, we didn't, because we made a security deposit. If no agreement is obtained, the law provides for an emergency context and the board can refer the dispute to the Disputes Committee. If it has not delivered its opinion before the beginning of the financial year, the necessary expenditure may nevertheless be incurred. Mrs Nooren asked about the questions about the right of assent in the main areas of higher education. Is there any clarity on what these main lines are? I believe that Mr Bruijn also asked for this. In any case, the broad lines cover a number of policy areas: education, research, housing, management, investment and staff. We have deliberately chosen broad lines, because we want to avoid it becoming a matter of one size fits all and that the good agreements that some institutions already have with their participation on the way in which they have expressed their main points would be called into question again. We want to create space for customization. This means that institutions will have to learn from each other in the near future, because the main lines are not formulated in exactly the same way everywhere. This is also in line with the responsibility of the institutions to shape the strategic documents themselves. Mr Bruijn asked if I wanted to promote the discussion of domes and student associations on the implementation of the guidelines. What lessons do we want to take for the MBO? I would be happy to promote such discussions. I note that many institutions have been working on this in the past year. I will call on the student organisations, the colleges and the universities to discuss the main lines of the budget. That's what I'm telling you. With the parties in the MBO, JOB, the MBO Council and staff organisations I will discuss the lessons they can draw. That is where we are now looking at how we can further develop the AMvB on the broad lines of the budget for the MBO. Aside from the fact that I would like to take those lessons for the MBO, I will also present the AMvB to this Chamber in due course. Then we really have to look at what is specifically meant by 'the main lines of the budget' in this case. This is different in MBO than in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u28	I would like to thank the Minister very much for this commitment. I would like to explain one more thing. Maybe I didn't explain it enough. My group's intention was to look in particular at the possibility of agreeing minimums, but to leave room for individual tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u29	This is precisely the purpose of the provision in the law on higher education. The aim is to ensure that there is a principled agreement on agreement on the main lines of the budget, but that the institutions are allowed to reflect on exactly how they do it. These broad lines do not have to be exactly the same for everyone. I absolutely agree that there should be customization. Mr Schalk asked about primary and secondary education. We have not said that we would never agree on the main line of the budget there, but we have said that much more thought and consultation with the sector is needed and that we do not want to rush it. For the MBO we can make the step to the AMvB. For primary and secondary education, the internet is now being consulted, because there we are also dealing with other forms of government. There are many more organisations, there is much more diversity and there are many more forms of governance. Think also of the single-pitters that are there. We are now waiting for the internet consultation and we are going to see if we can still adapt the legislative proposal for primary and secondary education on the basis of this. The plan is to submit this to the Chamber before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u30	I have a question about one of those last phrases. Can I understand that this bill is being amended for primary and secondary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u31	For the MBO there will be an AMvB. In primary and secondary education, the internet consultation is now under way, so in the end new proposals, adapted after the internet consultation, are submitted to the Lower House. This brings me to the second issue with more specific questions. It's about the position of directors and supervisors. It is very important that we have the right people there, both in the administration and in the supervisory bodies, and that professionalism is encouraged there too. Mr Bruijn has spoken on this subject in a number of commendable words. This means that the management of an educational institution, as the internal supervisor, must have expertise in many different areas, especially in complex organisations such as colleges and universities. Knowledge is needed in the fields of education, finance, housing, personnel policy, organisation and management. Each institution and sector may also differ in what expertise is needed. Furthermore, it is important that directors have a moral compass, about the ethics that Mrs Martens mentioned. They need to be able to ask each other the right questions. We do so a lot with the sectors, also in the context of the progress of the commitments made in the governance strengthening agenda, including strengthening governance and financial management. There we also look at which themes in professionalism of directors and supervisors are needed. I mentioned the Day of Education Board which we are going to organise for the third time this year in September. There we ask someone from outside to look critically at governance issues in education with some distance. This year's Kees Boele. There are also all kinds of workshops where people are updated and talk about governance with each other. The sectors themselves are also very active. The different codes of good governance have been adapted and updated regularly. The codes now set out, inter alia, the requirements to be met by directors and supervisors. We have the Association of Supervisors in Educational Institutions that has made agreements about education. This should be an integral part of the annual agenda of the Supervisory Board and internal supervisors and should be accounted for in the annual report. It also organizes a lot of courses and courses that are widely used. In 2005 there were no less than 600. Mr Bruijn asked how I looked at the study of the National Platform Occupations in Education, which was released in 2009. It starts with the starting point that I share with Mr Bruijn: it is very important that we develop this professionalism, develop the governance codes further, and that we look at what more we can learn about the quality assurance of directors and supervisors from other sectors. That brings me right to Mr Bruijn's question as to whether there should be a register.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u32	I've got a little point. I understand that there will be an outsider on the Education Board Day to add something with a critical look from outside. I thought Mr Boele was a director in higher education. Is he an outsider or am I not quite clear about the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u33	In this case, he is not an outsider, but he is someone who looks at the entire educational area with some distance. The year before, we had Kim Putters, director of the SCP and the year before, Professor Edith Hooge. Now we have asked someone who is a director, but is also known for his publications that give long-term perspectives from far more distance, sometimes historical and philosophical. He was not asked as director of the HAN, but as someone who has been thinking about this issue for a long time and can do so sector-wide. The register that Mr Bruijn asked for is an interesting idea. I also have a few reservations. One of them has to do with the fact that I just pointed out. For an educational institution, certainly a complex institution, you need a lot of different skills, not only about education and research, but also about housing and finance. You must be in close contact with the city. So the question is how unambiguous you can impose the requirements on the profession. Mr Bruijn referred to the BIG register and the teacher register. Mr Rinnooy Kan rightly said that the professions registered in these professions are, in part, craft professions, and that is different for drivers. In the case of nurses and teachers, you can still say that everyone has to comply with this. My experience, and also my wish, is that supervisors of complex educational organisations in particular do not all have the same baggage. You need people with financial knowledge, but you don't just need people from the financial world on your supervisory board. You also need people at a university who know how a university community works and that you need to direct professors in a different way than employees in a cookie factory, to name but a few. Then the question is whether you can do something about improving professionalism and whether you can improve substantive knowledge without leading to uniformity. I find it interesting to see if we can compare this discussion with other sectors, such as housing, where there are a number of new developments. Then I'm not just talking about registers like the BIG register and the teacher register. That means that I would be happy to agree to talk to the field about that. In a letter I will inform the First Chamber of this matter. In that letter we will see how we can better shape the quality assurance of directors and supervisors in education and what we can learn from other organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u34	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I'd like to give you a little explanation. In fact, the examples of the registers I have mentioned only ensure that professional groups talk to each other about what they themselves consider to be a reasonable minimum for keeping track of the profession. That also leaves all the space for dividing up into rooms of such a register. That was set up by your government for doctors, for example, after 30 years of resistance from that sector. That leaves room for customization when it comes to categories of supervisors. In doing so, one will devote its time mainly to financial expertise and the other to didactic skills, while one third will pay particular attention to HRM. The model to which I referred, set up by this government, has as a nice feature that it leaves room for individualisation. The only thing it leaves no room for is for those left behind who do not want to keep up with their profession at a level that peers regard as a reasonable minimum, both quantitative and qualitative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u35	I know exactly what you mean. I would add that with everything that we are already asking for with this legislative proposal of directors and supervisors and what they are already doing, most of them are doing very well, and given what is already happening by the VTOI, including with all kinds of courses, the question is how we deal with this. I do not want to give the impression that anything is going to get over it. It must be seen as meaningful by the organization. Then there'll always be opposition. The teacher register finds a large group very useful, but there are always people who would prefer to keep any external interference out of the door. That makes me a little less sensitive. We do have an obligation to think if this works and if it adds anything to everything we already have. Furthermore, we need to see if it fits in with the complex skills and levels of knowledge we ask of people. Again, I would like to return to that in my letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u36	I realize that's already a step. I am grateful to the Minister for that. This is, of course, the maximum I can ask for at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u37	I have a slightly different point, but it is about professionalisation. That's why I'm asking the question. The Minister said that she wants to monitor the progress of professionalisation among supervisors and directors. Is that what she wants to do for co-determination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u38	I admit that I will also include that point in that letter. I have already looked at all courses and initiatives in the field of education, but also at what you can arrange in the longer term. You have many members who are short in participation; the transfer is very important. Yesterday I saw the new JOB board; the new chairman is a former board member. In this way, the stick is handed over to each other. That's a good way to keep the expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u39	I am concerned not only with supply, but also with whether it can be monitored or used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u40	I'll tell you what, I'll take that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u41	I have a supplementary question on the register for drivers. In another context, I asked a question about the members of the board of associations. In such a register, are we referring mainly to paid directors, or also to board members of that small primary school in the village, where a general assembly of members has chosen a board member?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u42	This applies to both, because we do not distinguish between large and small organisations. The internal supervisor is ultimately responsible for the appointment, suspension and dismissal of directors. This applies in all cases, whether it is a paid driver or not. In the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal, I mentioned the importance of a director being appointed on the basis of expertise, regardless of remuneration. There is also an advisory right here. But a supervisory board can always differ from that motivated. In the distribution and stability of roles, it remains the task of the Supervisory Board to appoint, suspend and dismiss a director.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u43	Now there are two subjects running through each other. I am referring in particular to the register for drivers, in which they have to keep track of the development of their expertise. You're already going into the appointment, firing or suspending. You made an important point: at the moment that advice is given, the supervisory board can ignore it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u44	That's two things, isn't it? I made an important commitment to Mr Bruijn: I will look mainly at the register and from there into other sectors, to see what we can learn from it. Perhaps they also have paid and unpaid drivers there; if so, we can learn from that. Maybe they don't make that distinction at all. Then we can't learn from it. I'll take that theme with me. I thought you also asked how the advisory law worked out, which question I have now answered directly. There is no distinction, because it does not fit the model. Mrs Nooren asked about my role in the appointment of the members of the supervisory boards at the public universities and academic hospitals. That is an issue that has grown historically. These organisations derive their legal personality from the WHW. This also means that it is important that this legal personality is well protected, because it is very complex organisations, with a lot of financial resources. The fact that I appoint the members of the Supervisory Board indicates the responsibility they have, and it also indicates the transparency of policies. Furthermore, it is a way for me to take into account different fields of knowledge and diversity within the supervisory boards. Since 2013 we have the designation authority. As a result, in 2014 in the Lower House, a paper consultation on governance asked if there were any inconsistencies among the members of the Supervisory Board: I appoint them in advance, but I can also use a clue. At that time we also discussed the appointment of the members of supervisory boards of public universities. At that time, I indicated that this is indeed due to the historically growing position of public universities and to their responsibility, which is often wider than that of other educational institutions, to which university medical centres are often linked. At that time, it was concluded that there was no reason to deviate from those appointments. The universities indicated to me at the time that they attach great importance to this. They just happened to confirm that last night, when I had a meeting with them. They feel that they have a great responsibility. There has never really been any reason to change that historically growing situation. I have already said that this is not a matter of principle for me. It could also be different; it is not the most important issue for me in this whole subject. At the same time, however, I can see that the public-law nature is a given. Furthermore, I see that there are good arguments, including those of the supervisors themselves, to hold on to them. I would like to say to the Chamber that in the letter I have just promised to Mr Bruijn, to which I added a commitment to Mrs Martens, I will address the question of how this public law character is expressed and what we can learn from other sectors when it comes to the quality assurance of supervisors. Because here too, we can't stack everything. If you really want a register, you have an additional argument to let go of the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board at universities. That reasoning is also the other way around. I will also deal with the comparison with other sectors. They also asked what would go wrong if we stopped naming. I can mention a few things. I fear that we will have no more option than co-optation. I think that is a step backwards in many respects, because that means that the members of the supervisory board choose only the other members entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u45	I thank the Minister for the commitment to include it in the letter. I don't mean the other way around. For other educational institutions, which are sometimes complex, they also serve all the interests mentioned by the Minister. They are also linked to business and society. In other sectors, efforts are also being made to give broad representation hands and feet to ensure the independence of supervision. It is very quick to reason that you then say that the only option is to go to co-optation. If the minister is not responsible, the question is how to maintain that quality and diversity, as well as the social awareness needed in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u46	That's an important question. There may be other models conceivable in theory, such as involving more external stakeholders. Here too, to some extent, a business model has been taken over, and there are shareholders. Who are the shareholders of educational institutions? Those are actually Dutch citizens, but you don't have them directly in the position to send supervisors away if it would come to this. To Mr Kops I say that I am indeed not so ported by co-optation, which puts too much of the same knowledge together. Diversity is very broad as far as I am concerned. On a supervisory board that I appoint, I do not want people to have the same political preference or meet at the same sports clubs or friends' parties. I prefer that there be variation in age, background, sex, etc. That applies in a very broad sense. Mr Kops also asked why we did not include joint and several liability in the legislative proposal. We already have that in the law, namely Article 2.9 of the Civil Code. Mr Schalk asked about the right to consult on appointments of directors, for example at primary school. That's the same as what I just said. We make no distinction when appointing, but there is scope to depart from the opinion of the participation council, subject to good arguments. That actually applies to all organisations. In doing so, we make no distinction between small or large. Which brings me to the training committees. Training committees are a very important form of participation in higher education. This bill puts them in a position to play their important role and to do so close to education. This new role and responsibilities require professional expertise. There is real work to be done to facilitate not only the participation bodies but also the members of the education committees. Questions have also been asked about the overlap and approval of students in the final terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u47	I understood that the training committees would be covered by the Minister's commitment to include the professionalisation of participation in the letter, now that they also have a participatory position, but this may not be sufficiently explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u48	I'm now saying they're covered. I do not distinguish between members of the participation and training committees in training and facilitation, because they are both very important. This legislative proposal gives the training committees the right of assent for the first time on a number of parts of the OER, so that is new. This has also been the subject of extensive debate in the House of Representatives. A thorough assessment has been made of the rights of consent that contribute to this solid position. This concerns, for example, the burden of study, the method of evaluation of education and the organisation of practical exercises. It has also been clearly stated that the final terms and diplomas of training should not be discussed. Mr Rinnooy Kan gave a technical translation: B, C, D, E wel and A and F again did not. That all sounds very complicated, if you read it that way, but it must be clear to everyone that final terms and diplomas are not eligible for consent. This concerns the training, examinations and the binding study advice requested by Mr Ganzevoort. There is no right of consent to the final terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u49	I want to be optimistic with the Minister about how this is going to work in practice, but still. The difference between the right of consent and the right of advice is legally relevant, but within an institution they are very close in the experience. I cannot, and dare not, rule out the possibility that, in practice, undesirable tensions will occur regularly in my view if these two bodies differ, even though one body has the right of assent and the other only has the right of advice. As far as I am concerned, a reference to a dispute committee is not the last answer either. I would like to repeat the request, which has not only been made by me, that the Minister should also monitor this side of participation practice in the future and at a time when he would like to inform us whether or not this concern occurs in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u50	Mr Bruijn has also asked for this. I also heard Mrs Martens speak about it. I'll admit I'll keep my finger on the wrist. That's what I said in the House of Representatives. After a year of experience, i.e. after the academic year 2017-2018, I will check the temperature and make a snapshot of whether there is a need for care, adjustment, additional explanation or information, facilitation and support of the training committee. That will not be the comprehensive evaluation, because it will take place in 2020-2021, but then there will be a snapshot or it will work as we hope it will work, or as I expect it to work. Then we can see if there's any reason for adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u51	Thank you to the Minister for her commitment to the BSA. In short, she says that there is no right of consent. Why not? The BSA is not about monitoring the final targets or talking about the level of training. I don't see why there would be no right of assent on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u52	Because it can have consequences for the award of diplomas. Then you get too close to the final terms and the diplomas of the course. It has to be about those parts that relate to the design of the training. Is the study burden well distributed? Does the evaluation take place in such a way that you get the right criticisms? Or the studyability of an education. It seems undesirable to me that the binding study opinion should be included. That seems to me to be a theme that should be linked to the final terms. There should be no ambiguity about this either. We have made that distinction really sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u53	I will say a little more about this in the second term, because I fundamentally disagree with that. The BSA is in many cases a return-enhancing measure. It doesn't have much to do with the individual level that students have to reach and the like, so that seems to me to be a wrong choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u54	I don't think it's a return measure myself. The main point of this measure is to see if you can expect a student to be able to continue and successfully finish the course. My view is that it does not serve students if we let it go too long. I've worked a long time in college myself. The worst thing, in my opinion, was to say at the end to someone who actually had to get a degree: pity, but it's not there and if I'm honest, we've known that for a long time. I believe that an institution has a great responsibility in that regard. In that sense, I am not opposed to a binding study opinion, but it must be used properly and carefully. Here it is part of the final terms. Just if there are any questions about whether this works properly, I would say: let's see how it goes after the first year. Then we record the temperature and can always see if there is any reason for further discussion. I really think it's a step too far. Mrs Bikker asked how the inspection looked at the instruments. The inspection shall use the existing instruments. This bill does not contain any instruments for inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u55	I would just like to make this clear, because I had read it somewhere. A piece has also been deleted, namely the obligation to notify the inspection. I had a taste of the tendency to see whether the inspection had sufficient instruments. There was a plea for a bonus. If we are going to evaluate it, I think it would be a good idea to look at whether the inspection actually makes sufficient use of the existing instruments, as it was intended to do. That was the ratio behind my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u56	The obligation to report arose from a number of incidents in which the inspection found out too late how serious the situation was. We have learned from other sectors, because this reporting obligation also applies in healthcare, for example. However, the Court has made it very clear that it does not wish to have such a duty of notification. That's why he's fallen. We have adapted the inspection supervision independently of the legislation, following all developments at ROC Leiden. The Meurs committee has examined what lessons we can draw from this. On this basis, we have strengthened the position of the inspection in the event of incidents, as have the transition from when the inspection transfers its responsibilities and tasks to the Ministry, in particular to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u57	But even the Council of State indicated that the inspection had received the necessary signals that would indicate possible incidents. I am concerned that the inspection should make real use of the instruments. The Minister now indicates that he has taken a number of measures which she expects to work well, but I think it would be very useful if, after the evaluation of a new incident, we did not jump to new instruments again, but that we kept a clear picture of whether the current instruments were sufficiently used. The Council of State does not need to repeat its comments on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u58	But that's a constant point of attention. As a result of the Meurs report, we have made a number of changes, even in the legislation. We can now take much longer, over several years, to see if an institution's financial system is in order. It used to only happen in one or two years, now in five years. That is a substantial and crucial change. We'll keep an eye on that. They asked about the overlap with the faculty student council. There are now three levels of participation: the institution, the faculty and the training. For everyone, we need to be clear about who has what rights, including for the training committees. I note that what we are doing with this bill is not new. Even now, different views may exist and training committees may advise differently from faculty councils, or may govern a joint participation in conflicting judgments of, for example, the employee's opinion, the ordnance and the student's opinion. A government must therefore always look very critically at its own proposal with abstention from voting or counter-opinion. It can only deviate motivated from it. In two opposing opinions, one of the opinions will agree or come very close to what the board has proposed. It is then up to the board to explain why they do not accept the different advice. That is a good example of how a good and critical conversation can lead to a better reflection of the final proposal. Participation must also be aware that having participation is not the same as always being right. It may lead to a reasoned and reasoned deviation. If one fails to come out and the training committee or faculty council is not satisfied, one can initiate a procedure with the dispute committee. We can do that now; that is not really going to be any different. I do not expect an increase in the number of cases, because the particular situations that I am presenting are not expected to occur very much. Even now, there are not many cases in the Disputes Committee. All co-determination bodies generally have the same objective in their cooperation. This bill encourages Faculty Council and Education Committee to coordinate matters well with each other. I therefore do not expect any major problems as a result of this new legislation. Mrs Nooren asked whether disputes committees were merely a procedural review. No, they have to look at a matter in substance, but without sitting on the driver's seat or participation. The Committee weighs up the arguments and interests once again, after which it gives an opinion in which in principle the reverse burden of proof applies. Finally, I would like to address the other questions, which deal with the most important questions concerning the validity of exams. I have heard Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Martens speak about this. In the past, as I have pointed out, it has always been said that the ageing of knowledge should be seen as the most appropriate reason for dropping exam results. In debates with the House of Representatives, I found at the time that limiting the validity of exams could be used in practice as an instrument for study promotion. I say to Mr Rinnooy Kan that this was not so much a wish of mine, but I noted that this could be done. Moreover, I have always stressed that this should go hand in hand with measures taken by the institution to promote the quality of education. I also note that with the adoption of the Mohandis/Van Dijk amendment, the House of Representatives has shown that the results of the examination should only lapse if the knowledge is outdated. In the light of the recent introduction of the study advance, I share the Court's view that dropping exams is not an appropriate means of promoting study speed. Other measures, including the study advance, also contribute to this. By the way, we have been able to see in the news today that students study faster. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, as long as there is a balance, because it is also nice for students if they do not spend any longer on their studies than is necessary. If they want to do extra things besides their studies, it's a choice, but it shouldn't happen because an institution doesn't have the organization in order. If the Chamber agrees to the bill, the power can no longer be used to promote the pace of study. However, according to the strategic agenda I have put forward, the aim is to promote the quality of education, including study progress, by focusing on increasing the involvement of the student, small-scale learning communities and good and inspiring teachers. Tempo is not an end in itself but the result of quality education. So I do not recognize that I myself have ever seen it as a very good study-tempo-promoting measure before; I thought Mr Rinnooy Kan said that. However, I have noted that it has been used in the past and that there are now reasons to change it. Mrs Martens asked about the relationship with the performance agreements. Isn't that at odds with the validity of exams? No, because this wasn't part of the performance agreements. These were valid for the period 2012-2015 and are currently being evaluated. The date of entry into force of this Act is after the completion of the performance agreements. In the second half of this year it will be assessed whether institutions have met the performance agreements. Mrs Nooren asked whether the evaluation would take into account the way in which institutions are implementing the concept of 'exposed examination'. It is obvious that in the evaluation we are also looking at the practical implementation of the concept of'showably obsolete' by institutions, because that was what we saw in the past. It was actually all about aging information. For courses that are very fast in development, such as biomedical sciences, this may be more urgent than when you study Greek and Latin. That's where customization is needed, so that's what we're taking with us. Mrs Nooren has also asked for attention to be paid to the question of whether students' diplomas in special circumstances, for example with a disability, would not be considered worth less. I don't have that impression. As far as I'm concerned, a degree is worth the same to everyone, and it doesn't matter when you get it. For students with disabilities, however, there are possibilities to get extra delay. That doesn't affect the validity of your exam, but it might affect how long you're studying before you can do your exam. Mr Bruijn asked about the regulatory burden with regard to the validity of the examinations. This will lead to an occasional additional burden in the adaptation of the OER, the Education and Examination Regulations. With the entry into force of this article, I take into account that this can lead to the regular adaptation of the OER. As I indicated in the note on the report, I do not expect the regulation on limiting the period of validity to lead to structural increases in regulatory pressure. Mrs Bikker asked for a study leave for students on part-time management. The Duisenberg amendment provides an opportunity for students with heavy administrative duties not to pay tuition fees for a year. It has been discussed why we only do that for this group. I don't think an intermediate variant is desirable. This does not mean that I would not like students to carry out part-time administrative tasks. That is what I would like to encourage. We see that in many cases it is very easy to combine with following a study. There is no question of loosing tuition money in my view, because we would have to stretch it very widely and then we would have lost that money and we would not be able to use it for, for example, students with disabilities, on which I had a wide-ranging debate with the House of Representatives last week in connection with the study advance. It is my absolute preference to be the first to support that group of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u59	At the same time, this amendment discourages a student with a significant administrative function from taking part-time courses and keeping up with the knowledge of his studies. Then he'll lose the forgiveness. I say that this is too rigid and I ask the Minister to respond. I understand that there are other things to call board chores where it's not worth checking if there's a need for customization. That's typical of my plea: take a look at the customization and stimulate the study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u60	It is precisely because we wanted to limit this that we said that we should go for students who have full-time management positions and who have a heavy responsibility in them. Apart from that, I am working on an experiment AMvB for the flex student, also at the request of the student associations. Its aim is to experiment precisely to get more customized rules on tuition fees. That might help here, too. Mr Bruijn asked about the relationship with the Whoo and the WHW. That is a somewhat older discussion that dates back to the Balkenende III cabinet. The Whoo has not been apprehended but withdrawn. The criticism of the Council of State at the time was no reason not to submit the bill. The then Balkenende IV cabinet decided to withdraw. This has been announced and a proposal has been made for a new integrated legislative proposal on higher education funding and control in the short term. This has led to the 2010 Higher Education Enhancement Act, and we are now building on this for an important part. Mr Bruijn has asked whether the WHW is still future-proof, because it has been changed 130 times. The number of legislative changes does not, in itself, say so much about increasing or reducing the importance of those changes, nor about the regulatory burden. The fundamental criticism of the Council of State quoted by Mr Bruijn focused on a specific chapter, Chapter 5a of the WHW, which deals with accreditation. This chapter is fully rewritten in the draft law for the development of the accreditation system with the aim of increasing readability and manageability. I say honestly that I think that in the future the WHW I referred to it at the beginning of my speech as well as the necessary changes. Perhaps someday there will come a time to say that, perhaps under the influence of major digital developments in higher education, we need to look at the law again. That costs a lot of manpower from our employees. As long as that's not necessary, and that's not necessary now, I don't feel the urge to get to work on it. D66 and CDA asked about the moment of entry into force. Ms Martens asked if the law would enter into force on 1 August 2016. That date once stood in an overview of urgent legislative proposals that your Chamber has reached. It has not been possible to deal with the legislative proposal with such urgency that 1 August 2016 is a reasonable deadline for its entry into force. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This does not apply to all articles, because some articles have to start with the start of the new academic year, such as training committees, student-assessor HBO and validity exams. They're all going in as of 1 September 2017. This has been discussed extensively with the institutions and the student associations. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u61	Thank you. I'm looking at the clock. I would suggest that we suspend for 45 minutes until 8.30 p.m. before dinner break and then do the second term. For the second term, I have a 32-minute registration from the Chamber and if I am to put it short, the Minister will also need half an hour. Then we'll be another hour. By then, it'll be almost 9:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u62	Ladies and gentlemen. We're moving on. I call Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u63	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we have mentioned a number of points in the law that make our claims. We have asked a number of questions and we have expressed our concern about the drafting of the law. I am referring in particular to the question of whether the provisions of the law contribute to the objective of the law to strengthen administrative power. For the sake of clarity, our group considers the involvement and use of the vision, experience and skills of students and staff to be a very good and important issue. We no longer live in a time of "about them, but without them." The benefits of consultation, consultation and cooperation with all concerned are evident. That is exactly what our group wants to encourage. Our question was whether the bill contributes to this. Or is it more of a face-to-face than a face-to-face? It is good to hear the Minister say that this contributes to the purpose of consultation and dialogue, and to promoting engagement. In this sense, we are satisfied with the clarification given by the Minister. Several groups, like us, have indicated that it is not just about participation, but also about promoting a particular culture. You do this not only with new rules and not with more control, because for that there is little interest among the student community, according to the often cited article from the Volkskrant, at the moment. In this sense, the plea of GroenLinks and other groups to seek new forms to promote the intended cultural change is very interesting. We are pleased that the Minister intends to take that up and explain what is already being done about it. Perhaps it is in line with what already exists in the field and elsewhere in the world. Our group thanks the Minister for the answer to our questions. We also thank the Minister for giving us an overview of the commitments made. Not all of our concerns about the impact have been removed, but in the light of the Minister's explanatory statement, her clarification and her commitment to monitoring and evaluation, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u64	Mr. Chairman. My group looks back on a useful and substantive debate, as it should be. It is a debate that represents a small step from an extremely long road, a road with a history of hundreds of years, and undoubtedly a continuation of hundreds of years, because education is of all ages. The administration of educational institutions is a concern of all times. Whether the WHW will be with us for a long time on the continuation of that road, we will see that. It is good to see once again that, looking at what we see as desirable culture within educational communities, this whole Chamber and the Minister have a broadly similar perspective in mind. This is an educational community that sees as its main task to work together on the process of knowledge acquisition and transfer and to which everyone has a contribution to make. The key question is and will remain how to create an administrative infrastructure that maximises the chances of creating such a culture and is also able to intervene if that process goes wrong for whatever reason. We are finally reassured by the Minister's answers during this evening. We have talked extensively about what was the right wording for this. The term "contradiction" has been mentioned. "Conspiracy" was too anointing, but fortunately the minister himself came up with the redeeming term "co-creation." That seems to me to be a term that no one can object to, so I expect this to be the new buzzword of the education administration debate. I look forward to that. One of our fundamental concerns is the balance between horizontal and vertical accountability policies and horizontal and vertical accountability burdens. I am pleased that the Minister has promised to go back to that, but I understand that this can be done appropriately if the effects of the current vertical accountability burden are assessed, as well as the performance agreements associated with it. I look forward to that. We certainly want to continue the debate. We all realise that, whatever the value of the duration of exams as one of the instruments for achieving vertical agreements, if that issue were to lapse and that it no longer has its original role, this is an additional reason to look again critically at the continuation of study pace and study duration. I hope, then, that the effect of the disappearance of that instrument is negligible, because study duration and study rate are also important ingredients of good policy. In the course of the evening I realized that part of the history, on that long road, took place outside the observation of a number of new Members of Parliament. The Minister referred to the debate in 2013, with an important demarcation of what would and would not be a suitable perspective on participation in education country. I am grateful to the Minister for her commitment to enable us to catch up, because the debate on this issue is not over after tonight. I am grateful to the Minister for the contribution she has made. Like the previous speaker, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the law and vote in favour when the votes are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u65	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister, on behalf of my group, for all the commitments and the handouts he has made. My group is apparently less afraid of collisions and counter-forces than other groups. We also like to keep using that term relaxed. In my speech, I referred, among other things, to the saying 'without friction no shine'. If you look at how that atomic works, then that shine can only occur in friction because molecules and atoms collide hard. Most of all, they should continue to do so. If you know how to manage that, there's always something good coming out of it. In my daily work with students, it's no different. As soon as we're not critical, there's gonna be a problem. I am interested with Mr Rinnooy Kan in the follow-up and discussion on horizontal and vertical surveillance. You can look at that in different ways. In my profession, it is known that if you strengthen the abdominal muscles, you also need to strengthen the back muscles because otherwise the matter will become unbalanced. One could say: if horizontal supervision is strengthened, then you also need to strengthen vertical supervision. I interpret Mr Rinnooy Kan's hand delivery in that direction. The question is what reinforcement then is, because we come from a time when we only counted on numbers of students and degrees. That's what we thought of efficiency. Then we said: let's see if we can link some of the funding to quality agreements. This is a liberalisation, because the criteria can be put forward to a large extent by the institutions themselves. In this sense, these performance agreements are indeed a shift towards the institutions themselves. It is also a shift in the direction which Mr Rinnooy Kan means and which we also welcome. However, it is too early to extend the percentage of performance agreements already. I agree with the Minister that it is necessary to evaluate first. In view of all the agreements on the proceeds of tuition fees, I think that we are going in that direction in the end, that is to say, a further liberalisation and thus an extension of the quality agreements and the corresponding percentages. That is what we are going to talk about. Furthermore, I would like to see myself hop along in Mr. Ganzevoort's bottom-up laboratory. I see a lot of that. I think he has a very good point. I also mentioned this when I was talking about the law and about a review of education in terms of internationalisation, digitisation and everything that goes with it. I am less in agreement with GroenLinks when it comes to saying that you should never say to a student: you should start a different education. I think this would be a form of neglect. In that sense, the BSA is a good thing. Actually, that is also a form of participation, but from the teacher towards the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u66	For the record: I don't think I said that you should never tell a student that he should do anything else. I didn't even suggest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u67	Well, then I am very pleased that we consider that binding study advice to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u68	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u69	Finally, I understand that the Minister is going to do another inspection round along the fields of the Netherlands. She's going to Delfzijl tonight. I hope she doesn't have to go back tonight. That is physically impossible, unless she follows the advice given in the corridors by GroenLinks to use the JSF; very special. I am glad that the Minister is taking a more environmentally friendly approach to this. I know she's always carpooling, knowing with her driver. I will be happy to advise my group to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u70	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA faction thanks the Minister for her comprehensive answers. I think she shows, like most people in this Chamber, that it is very important that the quality of education is good and remains good and that she wants to work every day to get it better. I like how she characterizes participation: as a free advice, not in terms of mistrust, but as working together on a better educational community. I'm not going to use the words "coherence," "counterforce" or any force. Whether it's glowing or not, I think it's about talking to each other and having the dialogue. Then it's allowed to collide occasionally. I believe that this leads to better education, and that is what it is all about in the end. The Minister states that she wants to seek opportunities in dialogue with the field to bring about the desired cultural change. I welcome the commitment that it will write down what is already happening, and that it will use the gremina for educational institutions and representatives of students and students to see where more can be done. We agree with the Minister that the ideas should not come from this Chamber, but rather that we should make a continuous call for creativity and ideas to come from the bottom up, whether in pilots or not, to work on innovation in education in this way too. It is good that the Minister promises to keep her finger on the pulse as regards the role of the training committees and that she will not wait until the review in 2020-2021. The same applies to the commitment to use the participatory monitor at all levels of education and to use it in a structural manner. The clarity given by the Minister on the main lines of the budget is sufficient for us at the moment. We are pleased that it is taking steps to call together educational institutions and student representatives to get a common understanding of this concept, so that it may lead to a deepening of the words used in it. We welcome the Minister's commitment to consider alternatives to her role in public universities and academic hospitals, while, of course, maintaining the quality standards and social responsibility that are always attached to supervision in educational institutions, and certainly in these educational institutions. This is accompanied by a letter in which it deals more broadly with the quality of directors and supervisors, including forms of accreditation, professional and training requirements. I think there is a lot to learn from other sectors too. There's one question left for me. That is when this Chamber can expect the promised letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I made a big mistake in my first term. It wasn't Frank Boeijen who sang "with your back against the wall," but Klein Orkest. I have been reminded of this by two people from this Chamber, and this has now been corrected for the Acts. I would like to return to the first term of this debate. It revealed the quality of driving and what you can actually ask of a student and a student. Maybe it was obvious that I was pretty relevant to that. That's because I've been looking into it for a while. The first Law on Participation Education came in 1981. That was also the year in which my teacher asked me if I wanted to take my place on the participation council. We did have a student council then, and from there I took my place on the participation council. What did I learn from that? Maybe that's what got me here right now. That'll be a win. Yes, Mr Bruijn. What I have learned above all is that it is not only about what board members can learn from students and students, but also what students and students can learn from administrators. That, I think, is something we should emphasise. There is mutual understanding when you have to talk to each other about important decisions. If that participation is not there or if it has been eroded and you are not allowed to decide on appointments, budgets or the content of policies, you get people thinking: why should I participate? I don't have anything to say about it anyway. I agree with Mr Bruijn: friction creates shine. Following the article in de Volkskrant, we have said here a number of times that the low turnout would mean that there is no involvement with students. I don't think we're allowed to put that one-on-one. I'm not going to say it's not true, either, but it's not a conclusion you're allowed to draw. Let's not do that. We would also say that the citizens are not involved in politics, because there are low turnouts in elections. I actually believe that citizens are very much involved in politics, but also that they feel that they can no longer make the difference. I do agree with the sounds that say that it is about cultural change. In that context, I would indeed find an experiment with, for example, a fully democratic university very interesting. Maybe the Minister can tell us if she still thinks about trying. Then we could see how we can organise it in a different way in order to achieve good democracy in universities. In the end, this law may not be what we wanted, but it is a step in the right direction. That's what the Minister understood. We will therefore support the legislative proposal. I would like to call on school boards and students to motivate students and students to also take on a task and participate in the more democratic process that is now beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u72	Mr. Chairman. Debates on education are always extremely pleasant. They are about a drive we share with many here and the question of how we can do it as best we can. I also welcome the way in which we have had the debate today, because I see that there is a great recognition of the importance of not only the debate as such, but also the importance of the good relationship between governance, participation, supervision and everything that goes with it. This also applies to the support I see and hear to look a little more for other and informal forms of participation or participation. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to provide insight into what is already happening and how this can be encouraged. On that point, I would like to add one small point, either as an opportunity or perhaps as a question. Would it be an idea, at least for higher education, to make this part of the participation monitor? In a way, it comes back once in a while. Then we see what profit or progress is being made in these new forms. I would also like to hear the letter when it comes to this point. The other point I was going to come back to is the BSA. I have no objection to telling students at some point that they may be in the wrong place; quite the contrary. However, I find the way in which that is regulated in the BSA too massive and too generic. So I'm not happy with that. But that's different from just letting everyone walk through. I think you should say it in time. The problem we have seen in recent years is that there have been all kinds of court cases that show that institutions are stretching the BSA regime far too widely and using it for all kinds of other policies. A common term is efficiency, et cetera. The only way students can now have a say in this is through the courts. We think that is undesirable. That is why we are saying that the policy as such, and of course not its individual application, should really be something on which participation has a say. I realize I'm not gonna win that tonight. I realize that I may be one of the few to find that at the moment. So be it. At that point, obviously, we're thinking differently. However, we welcome the law as a whole. So let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u73	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. That was adequate and to the point. I realise that we were not entirely in agreement. I note that there has been a semantic discussion about words such as contradiction and opposition. Contradiction in the atmosphere as Mr Rinnooy Kan meant, in the spirit of collusion, fits very well with the ideas of the SGP on participation, but opposition is a very different story. As far as I am concerned, there is one important point left. I hope that the Minister will respond to this in the second term. It concerns the right of advice with regard to appointment and dismissal. The Minister indicated that this applies to both paid and unpaid directors. She made it clear that there is absolutely room to depart from the opinion. I think it is important that this is said in this way. Now there are two questions for me. Does the Minister not think that students and teachers are in the wrong position to advise on appointments and possibly also on dismissals? That's the first question I have. The second question concerns the fact that this law lays down a minimum, so that further powers can be agreed at institutional level. Does the Minister consider it acceptable to extend mr powers at institutional level on this point? This may lead to the right of assent in relation to the powers of appointment and dismissal. The Minister was right to point out that some in this Chamber consider that the bill is not ambitious enough. Others think it goes too far. In my first term, in an interrupting debate on this subject, I said that the SGP was moderately positive about the first version of this bill, but that a number of amendments have brought this bill further to the SGP's vision of participation. Indeed, the tension between control and participation has to do with the SGP's vision of authority and relations of authority. That will be the balance for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u74	The Minister is able and willing to reply immediately, but I have been asked to suspend for a very short time. This is not related to this bill, but to a procedural issue, which is not related to the consideration of the bill you are defending here, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u75	The Minister for Education, Culture and Science has the floor and I ask her if it is possible to be ready by 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u76	That's gonna be a lot of work. Mr. Chairman. When I listened to Mrs Gerkens, I thought: those are interesting remarks. Indeed, we often talk about the importance of pupils and students and about what they can do to strengthen administrative power and democratisation. But it is also interesting to see what they can learn from drivers themselves. Mrs Gerkens mentioned 1981. At that time I was reminded of my own high school days, 1978 and 1979, when I, like many parliamentarians, was chairman of the student council. Then I came to the principal's office every Monday morning and that was quite exceptional. I have to say, I was very nervous about that every week. It was a very special moment, when I learned what was driving along and what was democratisation. I do not know whether it mattered that the Rector was called Van Mierlo, but at least it meant a special school for me, and I wish all other students that. Having said that, I would like to thank Members for their input and for the largely constructive reactions, especially in the second term. I very much agree with Mrs Martens that this is a cultural change. I hear that also from several other Members. I also agree with Mr Ganzevoort's proposal to look at test areas. I am very willing to do so, but we must do so together with students and administrators. I also want to see how I can encourage, with the VSNU and the Vereniging Hogeschoolen, to discuss this together with students. After all, these experimental gardens will mostly take place in higher education, although it does not have to be entirely exclusive. Mr Rinnooy Kan and I agree on a number of important points. I also know what he's saying about the pace of study. It is important for students who want to be able to study at an appropriate pace. My experience is that students sometimes complain when they find that programmes are not very compatible and that they have to wait a long time to get through one part to another if they have not achieved something. So I'd like to get on with that. Mr Bruijn spoke the words "without friction no shine" and he made the comparison with molecules that have to collide hard so that eventually something more beautiful comes out of it. That is perhaps the most beautiful metaphor today: you can sometimes have different opinions, but in the end a better result can be achieved. Mr Bruijn and Mrs Martens asked what I had promised. I have made three promises in the note on the report. Firstly, that the right of assent of the Education and Examination Committee and the way in which this right of assent relates to the rights of other participation bodies, including those of the Faculty Council, is reflected in the evaluation. Secondly, the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget in the MBO. Thirdly, an evaluation of tuition fees free of charge. This evening's commitments I shall leave aside for a moment, because I am sure everyone will still have a very clear picture of them. Mrs Nooren asked about the quality of directors and what time period she could look forward to information. As far as the quality of drivers is concerned, the register et cetera really requires a closer examination. I can promise you that in a year's time, or let me say in a year's time. The other commitment, on alternative systems of participation and testing, I try to keep earlier; that will be at the end of this year. I have to choose, otherwise it will take a lot longer for both, and that seems undesirable to me. So I will at least give one letter before the end of this year and the other within a year. The SP asks if there can also be a trial with a fully democratic university. Anything is possible, because we have set minimum standards. If there's support for doing more, you can. It is important, however, to think carefully about this. But basically, a totally democratic university, with elections for everyone. But any alternative, including the current alternative, always requires good coordination. After all, certainly universities are institutions with a lot of money involved. Everyone must be very aware that decisions are not only for the short term, but also for the long term, and that they can have serious consequences. I find Mr Ganzevoort's idea of that monitor very interesting. It is not right now, because it is about factual data, but I undertake to consult with the student associations, because they are mainly about what is now in that participation monitor. I will return to that in a letter. I don't think we're gonna agree on the BSA. I really think that counts in terms of end-of-terms. In view of the hesitations I have heard from your Chamber about the approval of the training committee, I do feel encouraged not to go beyond what is already in the law. But again, we're going to measure that temperature after a year. Then we will see how the binding study opinion is going. It may also change because the experiment with the binding study advice will not continue in the second year and it is more clear to everyone that the binding study advice only covers the first year of study and not otherwise. The SGP referred to the right of advice in the event of dismissal in respect of remuneration and unpaid. We can deviate from that, but of course we must always do so with a good argument. It is important that students and teachers also have a role to play, even in the case of appointments, including dismissals, but they do not become co-responsible. There is therefore a clear distinction in that regard. I call that roll resistance. The Supervisory Board shall appoint, suspend and dismiss. Students and teachers can profile themselves and they can discuss this in a crisis, but the formal responsibility really lies with the Supervisory Board. Mr Schalk also asked about minimum standards. He asked whether I think it would be acceptable to extend codecision powers at institutional level. That's exactly what I said to Mrs Gerkens. I think that is acceptable, because it is part of the fact that you set minimum standards and that you may deviate from them upwards, but in consultation with and with the involvement of students and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u77	I mean by my question that when it comes to the fact that the right of advice is the minimum for pupils and teachers, it is about the right of advice with regard to appointment and dismissal. Imagine if you would say within an institution: this is the minimum, but you can also extend to consent, then you get in the middle of what the minister has just correctly formulated, namely that responsibility ultimately lies with the competent authority. Perhaps then there will be a power of assent with a participation body.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u78	If you conclude that you can deviate from the minimum provisions if there is a strong agreement, this can also affect appointments and dismissals. I have just told Mrs Gerkens that in that sense you can have a democratic university for which you hold elections. I have given the example of Leuven, but we also know from Scotland that it exists there. If we want to experiment with this, we can do so, but we must do so with everyone's consent. If the staff, students, the board and the board say: in this case, we think it is the right procedure for this institution at the moment, let us give the opportunity to experiment with it, but under that explicit condition. That brings me to the end of the second-term answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-12.u79	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
