ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u1	We use speaking time of three minutes per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party, who has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. In recent months, a large number of reports have been published on nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands, and without exception the tone is alarming. A lot of nature has been lost in recent decades, both in surface areas and in numbers of animals and plants. It has also been known for years why nature is so deteriorating. I'm quoting some reports. From the Living Planet Report of the World Wildlife Fund: "Causes of decline in agricultural landscape are scaling up and intensification" and "In open nature areas, animal species suffer mainly from high nitrogen deposition, the largest source of which is agriculture, drought and fragmentation." From the second TopSector Nature report by Bureau Ulucus: "By scaling up and intensifying, the space for nature in the rural area is increasingly decreasing. Only a few species, in particular geese, benefit from the intensification." According to the State of Nature in the EU, the EU report, only 4% of Dutch animal and plant habitats are in good condition, and intensive farming and livestock farming are also identified as culprits. They have a devastating effect on nature and biodiversity. What looks like grassy pastures is, in terms of biodiversity, a desert: increasingly large-scale, increasingly monotonous and increasingly fewer species. The intensive livestock farming places an invisible blanket of nitrogen over the wider environment and this has great negative consequences for nature reserves. Many plants are vulnerable to nitrogen, and those plants disappear massively. The road of intensification is a dead end, literally. Intensifying agriculture and livestock production leads to deadly plains without biodiversity. In order to save nature in the Netherlands, it is therefore first necessary to switch to sustainable agriculture and livestock farming. In addition, the Cabinet has not done enough to comply with European agreements on the protection of nature reserves and biodiversity. This is demonstrated by a mid-term review by the European Commission. The loss of biodiversity should have been stopped by 2010, but the current commitment is not even achieved in the target year 2020. Connecting nature systems and restoring ecosystems are examples of things that have been waiting far too long. The cabinet will therefore have to make greater efforts, but these efforts will not be made. At the same time, the cabinet is focusing on further intensification, for example by releasing milk quotas. Under the Dutch Presidency, Dutch nature policy is evaluated. European nature policy is urgently needed and, according to scientists, it must remain intact. The Netherlands can make a commitment to this during its presidency. For the time being, these ambitions remain unspoken. I therefore have a few questions for the Secretary of State. What are the ambitions of the Secretary of State himself with regard to the protection of nature reserves and biodiversity? How is the cabinet going to use the Presidency to put the poor state of nature and an evaluation of nature policy high on the European agenda? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that these ambitions should go beyond maintaining European nature policy? Finally, is the Secretary of State going to work for a fundamental change in livestock farming and agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Is Dutch nature in safe hands with this government? That question is becoming more and more pressing. The Minister of Infrastructure wanted to build our dunes. Wide-ranging social resistance was able to prevent that. The Minister withdrew her plan. Is that also for the Secretary of State permanently off the job? Also in other places we see the VVD hobbies go for nature interests. Farmers are bound by strict nitrate standards, but for 130 km/h all nature is allowed to pass. The Netherlands is at the bottom of the European rankings. Take the State of Nature of the European Union published last year. That's a big report, where the Netherlands doesn't come out very brightly. The Netherlands is at the bottom of the list of "good" nature reserves. The Netherlands is also at the bottom of the list of progress made by countries in their nature conservation. What is the land with most habitat species in unfavourable conservation condition? You can already guess: The Netherlands is back at the bottom. You'd think: strengthen the laws of nature, get to work hard on the improvement. But what's coming? A short note that refers to what has already been done. The following red light is also ignored. The mid-term review of the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020 had a hard conclusion. Efforts to halt and reverse the decline in biodiversity are insufficient. Two reports are both insufficient, but more concrete than the commitment to pay extra attention to the implementation of the European targets will not be. I'll ask for that now. How are we going to bring about a society that is inclusive of nature? I am particularly interested in focusing on the relationship between agriculture and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u4	I was just waiting for the term "naturally inclusive society." It is very good that Mrs Koşer Kaya raises this point. I believe that when we discuss this report, we should be able to do so in conjunction with other reports. This report is very negative about nature in the Netherlands, but there are many reports that say that biodiversity improves. However, Mrs Koşer Kaya is very negative about this, and she even partly includes the VVD. This is completely unjustified, because VVD and D66 have built together in this, including with the new, now present nature law. I wonder why Mrs Koşer Kaya is so keen on leather. Why is she so negative about nature? After all, a lot of good points are being achieved on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u5	I want to see ambition. I also expect that ambition from the VVD and not only when it comes to whether you should be able to drive on the highway at 130 km/h. The nitrogen released is also covered by the PAS. The VVD shouldn't want that. We want all kinds of things from farmers, but then we can expect this cabinet to implement this kind of inclusive policy, even though it does not. However, Mr Heerema's question is another one, and I will respond to it. I'm sure there are a lot of reports. If it is not possible to make a well-founded proposal with these reports to improve things, then I will be drawn from learning and that is exactly what I am doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is very good that we can drive 130 km/h, so we can get from A to B faster. Cars are less long on the road, so I think that's only positive for nature. However, I note that the VVD is accused of not looking closely at the future, while I try to point out that VVD and D66 have largely joined forces with the new nature law and have also supported it together. There are all ambitions to strengthen nature in the Netherlands. It seems like the D66 spokesperson is ignoring that now. I very much regret that, because I think that we should look at nature with a positive view in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u7	If the VVD is so positive, it should not look so one-sidedly at the hard-driving Dutchman, but also at what that means for the environment. I would like to underline that. The VVD is at the front every time it comes to the farmers. The VVD says we shouldn't touch our farmers. I often agree with that. Nitrogen, however, is such a big problem that you should not let that happen in this way, and the VVD does. Driving 130 km/h is really a VVD party that will not benefit future generations. After all, this is going to ruin the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Lordema, I make inviting gestures, because you are being provoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u9	That's right. The VVD is certainly a party where every now and then a party is celebrated. This is in stark contrast to the contribution of D66, if I may say so. D66 can help farmers who are being cornered more often, as Mrs Koşer Kaya is not so often on our side. That is what I want to say in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u10	If the VVD is hanging out with me to make sure that the farmer gets an honest sandwich and not only has to pay the bill, I hope that the VVD will hang out with me when it comes to tears on the highway. If we leave something behind for future generations, I'd like to have a party with the VVD. Cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u11	Ms Koşer Kaya continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u12	I was in the relationship of agriculture with nature. This is one of the biodiversity targets. There is no clear progress on this issue either. The new common agricultural policy offers opportunities for this. In recent reports you can read that the promised greening seems like a wash nose. Member States shall choose the easiest greening conditions. They practically give away the greening bonus for farmers' income support. We are now halfway through this common agricultural period, a perfect moment for reflection and improvement. How does the Secretary of State assess the degree to which the CAP has brought greening over the past two years? What does he want to improve? We have an ambitious Secretary of State and then I want him to set ambitious targets so that we leave a cleaner and more beautiful environment for our future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the state of nature in the Netherlands on the basis of reports published last summer. They have all been mentioned by my predecessors, so I do not need to repeat that. That it is not good enough with nature in the Netherlands, we know by now. We also know that intensive farming is the main cause. But I do not want to talk about agriculture today. As far as I'm concerned, I'll keep that until the next AO, in March. I would like to confine myself today to a part of the biodiversity in the Netherlands: the health of bees. Bees and other pollinators are of great importance for both economics and ecology. Without them there is no pollination of plant species in nature. Without them there will be no pollination of crops, and there will be no harvests. The economic value of pollination is estimated at an annual contribution of EUR 600 million to EUR 1 billion. I see the heur Geurts smiling, so it's okay with him. I think he likes to hear this. Without bees, other pollinators and insects there are also fewer birds. By the way, 80% of plants in nature also depend on insect pollination. The health of bees is thus an important measure of the state of nature in the Netherlands. In fact, we don't need the reports for that. Bees depend on flowering flowers in nature. The diversity of flowering flowers in nature has been deteriorating for years. Although we occasionally discuss in this Chamber the extent to which bees die, for example in winter, there is no discussion about the decline in food supply. Last Monday I was confirmed during a working visit to the University of Wageningen where I was given the opportunity to talk to a renowned bee researcher. At present, there is a European study initiated by this university which examines the availability of food for bees. That research will soon be concluded, but I already know the most important conclusion: the diversity of flowers in nature needs to be raised. That won't be surprising after this speech. The research also reveals which types of flowers are most important. This may help us to define our policies in the future. The Secretary of State is also aware of this. In 2013, his predecessor received an Action Programme on Bee Health, which is supported by the Minister. The action programme sets out four pillars that have since been implemented: plant protection products, bee disease and plagues, food supply and biodiversity and beekeeper practice. I come to a few questions and then to my conclusion. What is the status of this action programme? What are the results and to what extent does the State Secretary, the Ministry, support this action programme in 2016 and beyond? So much for my first-term input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u14	That was a glowing argument for the bees. I therefore assume that the Labour Party will also vote in favour of motions to ban neonicotinoids from Dutch society, but that is not my question. My question is whether the Labour Party would support a proposal from the SP to ask the Planning Office for the Environment what means are needed to achieve the objective we have in mind by 2027? Mr Leenders also said that biodiversity in the Netherlands is declining.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u15	What purpose does Mr Van Gerven mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u16	The decline in biodiversity must be stopped and increased. We have set targets for this until 2027, also in relation to the main ecological structure. The PBL notes that these objectives are not being achieved now. My question is whether the Labour Party would support a request from the Chamber to the PBL to identify what means are needed to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u17	In this respect, I would first like to await Mr Van Gerven's proposal and all the considerations he has and what he is asking for and what investment he is asking for. It is also a question of whether we still need that in order to achieve good policy, as far as we do not yet have it. So I'm just waiting for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u18	We'll all wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. This debate is taking place today in response to the State of Nature report and that report was not easy on the results achieved in the field of nature policy. Therefore, as it now stands, we will not reach the biodiversity targets by 2020. I have said before that it is starting to look a bit like the climate debate. We're at the bottom of the rankings. 4% of habitats are in favourable conservation status and 23% of species are in favourable conservation status. Those are sadly low numbers. We are at the bottom of the rankings in Europe and it is only a matter of time before a lawsuit can be successfully brought against the State on the fulfilment of obligations. My group was therefore somewhat surprised to say that it is a little understated about the reaction of the Secretary of State on 29 June 2015 which, of course, was still the predecessor of this Secretary of State but it is the same ruler, I will say: we are on our way quite well, we are doing our best and it will all be fine, you are going to sleep quietly. Well, it's not gonna be okay at all. I would therefore like to ask this Secretary of State what he is going to do about achieving the biodiversity targets. We understand that standing policy is actually based on the biodiversity implementation agenda of 2013. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether it is still adequate or whether we should actually have a solid update of that implementation agenda? If so, will the Secretary of State promise that it will be there as soon as possible? The State of Nature report is clear about what is holding back our recovery: intensive agriculture. And that also supports the predecessor of this Secretary of State in her letter, but what will the Secretary of State do about it? Are we really getting to that nature-inclusive agriculture? This would ultimately be the best approach for both agriculture and nature and biodiversity. In the years to come, my group sees a huge challenge not to let agriculture and nature bite each other but to bring them together, so that we can finally prevent what we are building on the one hand by investing in nature, on the other hand, by breaking down our intensive agricultural policy. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what is going on with the EUR 10 million that is intended to make agriculture more sustainable in the amounts that have now come through the EU. I would like to get an update on this because that should be known. For my group, it is clear: there must be a big leap on top. I'll make a few suggestions. Invest in nature, undo the Bleker austerities, do not mingle with the Birds and Habitats Directives, use the new Nature Act with all the possibilities, including the programmatic approach, move money from the first pillar of the CAP to the second pillar or make sure that the first pillar money, its greening part, is used effectively and not for catch crops, for example, and put a very firm brake on the lack of agricultural poison. With those ingredients, we could come a pretty long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u20	I can now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP, including the point that Mr Leenders is so anxiously waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. The most important research into the state of nature in the European Union shows that the Netherlands is the worst boy in the class in a number of important areas. Only 4% of natural habitats are in a favourable conservation state. A report by Birdlife International shows that one in three birds is threatened. The Netherlands is doing worse than average. The EHS Great Project therefore states that three quarters of protected species and almost all habitat types have a very to moderately unfavourable conservation status in 2012. Nature is the basis of our existence. With such distressing signals you would expect everything to be done but the seventh progress report of the Groot Project EHS shows that there was less nature in the Netherlands in 2013. You'll hear it right: less. For the first time since it was kept, the area of nature in the Netherlands is shrinking. How can this shrinkage policy bring about natural recovery? Natural monuments conclude that the figures, however presented, always lead to the same conclusion: if no other course is taken, it is impossible for the National Nature Network to be realized as agreed in the Natural Pact. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if the National Nature Network is coming off. Does he dare to put his hand in the fire for that? We would like to see intermediate objectives formulated so that we do not only find out in 2027 whether they have been achieved. Even if it succeeds in acquiring the planned number of hectares, the objective of conservation of animal and plant species in their habitats is still not within reach in 2027, according to the PBL. Will the Secretary of State request the PBL to investigate how we can achieve our goals by 2027? After a summer full of bad news and very serious reports on the state of nature, we received a happy letter from the Secretary of State. He was very hopeful and he made an extra effort by wondering whether we could not stop the difficult big project of the ecological main structure. Is there any reason for this carelessness? If we look closely, we can see that 30% less land was acquired in 2014. If no land is acquired and only land has been lost, how can we achieve our goals? The figures in the various reports are uneven, making it difficult to make multi-annual comparisons. However, good monitoring and reporting are essential during this transitional period. A possible final report on this major project should be prepared by an independent party as far as we are concerned and should include at least the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 in order to make a comparison possible. We would like to receive a commitment from the Secretary of State to allow the aforementioned independent investigation to be carried out during the transitional period. The Planning Office for the Environment may also have a role to play in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. Nature is doing well in the Netherlands. Many breeding and waterbirds increase in number. Here we are doing better than average in Europe. This is evident from the 2015 State of Nature Report of the European Environment Agency in the EU. The state of the habitat is also stabilizing, as shown by the Living Planet Report of the World Wildlife Fund published last November. It states that the population of a number of animal species has increased by an average of 15% since 1990. The CDA wants us to continue with this improvement, together with the inhabitants of the Netherlands and certainly also with the volunteers in nature. Nature policy is now also closer to the people thanks to the decentralisation of nature policy to the provinces. The recent policy review of Article 18 also recommends that the current nature policy should be continued. However, nature policy also goes too far in certain respects. The Secretary of State suddenly wanted a pine forest in Dinkelland, something that doesn't belong there at all. I am glad that this has been abandoned at the request of the CDA. Nature rules can also be in the way of our inhabitants unnecessarily. The report of the European colleague Annie Schreijer Land in de knel, which deals with this, was to receive a written response from the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State say when we can expect the promised written response to this report? Next, a comment on grassland and bird habitats. The Dutch government has identified all grassland in bird habitats as ecologically vulnerable. This is not or to a much lesser extent the case in other European countries. Non-transformation of grassland is a serious restriction on ownership, which must be handled with great restraint. The Netherlands has many bird habitats which differ in size and for which there is not always the same need to apply the said measure. The cultivation of maize, for example, benefits the germination population. I would just like to say that not everything in bird habitats has to be permanent grassland. Can the Secretary of State explain why all grasslands in bird habitats have been identified as vulnerable? Is he prepared to consider whether a distinction can be made so that only grassland that is needed cannot be converted? In some areas, I wonder whether the stakes are effective. The diversity of species in nature reserves is decreasing. Isn't it better to point the arrows at that too? Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. The VVD was not in favour of holding this limited debate. It is limited because it concerns only one report on nature. As far as we are concerned, we need to discuss these kinds of reports simultaneously with other nature issues in order to make a much better balance. On 23 March, with much more speaking time, we will be discussing the Ecological Main Structure, the Great Waters Nature Ambition, Natura 2000 and the Birds and Habitats Directive. At this point in time, I do not think it is sensible to take that part of the debate to speak separately. Improving nature is important. Biodiversity is also important. But if we try to discuss this in three minutes, we will not do justice to the subject. We will therefore not come forward with proposals for policy changes in this debate. I wonder which party will do this. This would, as far as we are concerned, ignore the cohesion of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the Chamber for all the questions. Like Mr Heerema, I would like to remind you that on 23 March we have a general discussion in which we debate together on nature policy. In particular, I would like to pass on the questions put by the Chamber. The reason for this debate is the State of Nature report. On this basis you can look from two sides at nature in the Netherlands: it is not very good, but we are moving forward. I think that's the best summary. I think that the movement is the right direction on the most important conclusion that we could share. Mr Wassenberg has asked what my ambitions are when it comes to biodiversity. We have committed ourselves to the EU's biodiversity targets for 2020. My ambition is to get it. That is ambitious enough, but we are committed to ensuring that it succeeds. He also asked: how can you use the Presidency of the European Union to strengthen attention to nature? One of the most important things during our Presidency in this area will be the conference that we will organise from 27 to 29 June 2016 on the fitness check for the Birds and Habitats Directive. As you know, efforts are being made to maintain the level of protection and to evaluate with each other whether we are on the right track. Mr Wassenberg also asked whether we should not use a fundamental change in agriculture. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked about the relationship between agriculture and nature and said: there should actually be nature-inclusive agriculture. Mr Grashoff also said a few things about it. I sincerely believe that this is the direction of this cabinet. We've been doing a lot of things. I refer, for example, to protection through Natura 2000. Through the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen we prevent and reduce too much nitrogen in nature. We have just begun a new system of agricultural nature management, in which we are trying to strengthen the balance between nature and agriculture and to better integrate both. In dealing with the budget, I announced a plan of action on the status of meadow birds. That is what we will be preparing for the summer. Last week, we talked about a more sustainable plant protection system and about preventing plant protection products from getting too much into nature. Last year, the Chamber agreed with the Cabinet to strengthen the land-based nature of dairy farming and thus to strengthen the fact that manure actually ends up on the basis of livestock farming itself. We have introduced a manure processing obligation. There's a lot more to be said about it. I believe that the whole government policy on agriculture is aimed at making agriculture more sustainable and supporting farmers who want to make their farms more sustainable. I'll continue that line. In the course of the budget debate, I made it clear that it is one of my main tasks in agriculture to make agriculture more natural and to further strengthen the balance between agriculture and nature. So I'll continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u25	I see that Mr Wassenberg wishes to intervene. I let you stand for a moment, because I find it a nice habit in this house to, if there is a minister or secretary of state, put him at the beginning of a good man for two and a half minutes to put down what he thinks and that we will then interrupt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u26	I also want to avoid having to wait ten minutes and no one knows what it is really about. We've had that before. I have a question about the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u27	But I'll keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u28	I have a question about the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. I have here the report from the World Wildlife Fund. It says about the PAS: it is a form of symptom control, which does not remove the causes of excess nitrogen and it is not yet certain whether these recovery measures are fully, timely and properly implemented. One even warns that this PAS can lead to a worse nature, because there are more animals coming and so there is more nitrogen emissions. That PAS you mention as a measure for nature conservation may not be at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u29	In any case, the Programmetic Approach Nitrogen is not intended to ensure that more nitrogen enters nature, but less. For this purpose, several tracks are used. In the first place, development opportunities are identified. This also applies to the balance between economic development and nature, where it is always considered whether there is room for economic development or infrastructure in view of the amount of nitrogen entering nature. That space is granted when there is, but it does so with the aim of reducing the drop in nitrogen in nature. Secondly, on the basis of the programmed approach, there are remedial measures for nature. They'll be financed from that, too. There are tens of millions available to use to combat and reduce the drop in nitrogen in nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u30	It is very important to evaluate this in the very short term. The disadvantage may be that economic development, which you are talking about, in practice means more animals. The World Nature Fund says that it may be the intention to obtain more nitrogen depositions, but that it might be more. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u31	It seems strong to me, because the whole programmed approach is aimed at reducing these nitrogen depositions. The space allocated always takes into account that if there is any improvement, there can be room for new economic activity. More animals do not necessarily mean more nitrogen deposition. You can also take other measures to prevent nitrogen, for example, from entering the environment from livestock farming. The whole deployment of this program is to do the opposite of what you think the WNF is warning about. The whole effort is to reduce the drop in nitrogen in nature. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked, apart from the question about nature-inclusive agriculture that I have just answered, about building in the dunes. For that it is important that we have clear to each other that a very large part of the dune area in the Netherlands, and certainly the dune area to which we attach the most, is Natura 2000. So there should not be built at all just like that. The cabinet did not propose to relax the building rules in those areas. Mrs. Koşer Kaya is asking for some kind of guarantee. You can rely on me not to participate in it, should anyone ever feel that we should relax the construction rules in Natura 2000 areas in the dunes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u32	That's a clear answer. Does the Secretary of State also guarantee that he will not cooperate in relaxing areas where there is already activity, so that there could be built there as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u33	I think Mrs Koşer Kaya has seen that the Minister of I and M has withdrawn her plan. I would like to stress that this was not about broadening the possibilities of building in vulnerable dunes. There was no extension in that plan for construction in those areas. In her plan, from the point of view of water protection, it was about places where there might be opportunities to build. She gave an example of a beach tent that might be allowed to stand permanently. That's what the proposal was about. Moreover, I think it is very positive that the Netherlands' involvement in our dunes is so great that 100,000 people have signed and said: it should not be built there. I can reassure all those people: they must not be built there either. I would add that the plan of the Minister of I and M had not changed that either. Our vulnerable dunes are really well protected. Ms Koşer Kaya asked a few critical questions about greening in the EU's common agricultural policy. I can imagine those critical questions. I am also taking this into account in the mid-term review that is to take place on the common agricultural policy. I believe that it can be done better and that, where we have focused on greening, we do not always achieve the result that was intended in many places in the EU. I would also like to say that this can be simpler. This also applies to farmers who want to make use of the greening possibilities, but sometimes run against the limits of the slightly too strict rules, which does not respect genuine attempts to green up. That is what we are committed to, also in the context of the midterm review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u34	Of the what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u35	From the mid-term review, Chairman. So just the mid-term evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u36	I say that, Secretary of State, because there are people in the public gallery and there are people following us home. All these weird terms, we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u37	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. Now I think it is right for us in Europe to try to speak one language with each other, and that is English. If everyone in Europe were to speak Dutch, it would be very easy for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u38	But in this Parliament we are not in Europe. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr Leenders asked about the bee health action programme and its results, and how I intend to support this action programme this year and beyond. Within the framework of the action programme, the so-called Bee Council has been set up. We also discussed this last week during the debate on plant protection. In order to make a flying start, the first two years the chair and meeting facilities have been made available by the Ministry. LTO has now taken over that facilitating role. The Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee Bee The progress of the actions will be discussed there and the follow-up actions will also be discussed there. I'll inform the Chamber about the state of play before the summer. A financial contribution to actions related to knowledge dissemination, knowledge coordination and monitoring research is obvious. That is why a lecturer from my ministry was co-financed last year and will do so this year and next year. In addition, we co-finance the monitoring programme for four years. This is a multi-annual surveillance programme that identifies the status of bee health and bee mortality in winter in the Netherlands and identifies factors such as bee diseases, exposure to plant protection products and the way in which beekeeper practice is shaped. As I said, the progress of the actions will be discussed on 31 March. I shall return to that in the letter that the Chamber receives. Then I come to Mr Van Gerven's questions. He asked for monitoring. We also had a similar debate in the budget debate on the Ecological Main Structure. He asked for a commitment that this would be examined independently. I can promise him that. He also asked about the poor state of conservation in the Netherlands. He also referred to the Ecological Main Structure Progress Report. He sees a contraction in the number of hectares. I said during the budget debate that I am in consultation with the provinces on how we can clearly determine the size of the nature network and how it is measured. At that time, we discussed the lack of clarity as to which definitions are used. Before the summer, the Chamber will be clear about how we map that and how it develops. As Mr Van Gerven asked, I will also involve the Planning Office for the Environment. I come to Mr Grashoff who found that we are at the bottom of the lists in the report The State of Nature. At first I told you we're not ready yet. It is also not the case that nature in the Netherlands is fantastic for it, but we are on the right track. You can see that in the report. What are we gonna do? The main thing, of course, is that we are actually implementing the policy that has actually been launched. The new Nature Protection Act was adopted by the Upper House in December. This is an important element, also in order to implement the Natural Pact that we have concluded with the provinces. In this way, we will ensure that the sites that have been designated are identified six more sites, but all Natura 2000 sites are also well protected and management plans are implemented everywhere, and the Nature Network Netherlands is further expanded and completed. And we're going to take recovery measures and emission reduction measures under the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. I have also mentioned all the agricultural nature management. We have launched a new system on 1 January, which should also lead to more results. Moreover, there are still a number of major nature projects that we need to carry out. I call the Great Waters and the Marker Wadden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u40	This is a characteristic element in this debate, not just here, but on more points. Are we on the right track or not? When I look at the various reports, I see that we are still very far from the targets, that perhaps for the first time in decades we have managed to stop something from biodiversity loss, but that the actual entry into the targets is still far away. So you see a gap between what the objectives are and the extent, let me put it this way, in which we might be on the right track. Progress is very fragile and relates only to a very limited number of species. Can the Secretary of State guarantee me that the objectives will be met? And if he can't do that, can he guarantee me that he will come up with an additional plan to achieve those objectives? After all, that's what he committed himself to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u41	With the latter, Mr Grashoff says well: we are committed to it, this cabinet is committed to it. But the targets run until 2020 and if everything goes according to schedule, a new cabinet will appear at some point in 2017. If that cabinet continues on the same course, we're on course to reach the targets. But I just said that achieving those goals is ambitious enough. I agree with Mr Grashoff that we must make every effort to do so. So that is what we are doing, with the policy as we have set it in motion. Much of this has only recently been set in motion. The Nature Protection Act has yet to enter into force. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen hasn't been running that long. The new forms of agricultural nature management start this year. There are also efforts to be made. Can I give Mr Grashoff a guarantee? No, because it is also up to a next cabinet to continue the course and then to see if additional sails need to be added or that one can continue on the same path to achieve the goals. The ambition must be to achieve the goals. That's true for this cabinet, and I also hope for another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u42	These reports indicate that the current policy is not achieving these objectives. The Secretary of State insists that we are on course to achieve the goals, but it is one of two. Or the Secretary of State says what's in those reports is wrong. Or he agrees with me that we don't reach the targets and that if you're committed to that, there really needs to be a shovel on top. That cannot wait until the last cabinet for 2020. We must do something about this now, otherwise the successors of this cabinet will have to check after 2017, because that is too short a period to catch up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u43	I read the reports in such a way that they are critical of the state of nature, and rightly so. There's a reason we put a number of tracks in it. However, the reports also state that you can see improvements. There are other reports in which you can also see improvements. Mr Grashoff is right to say that we are not there yet, but I repeat that various instruments of this whole policy have just begun. I assume that we can achieve the goals, but we must continue to monitor them closely. That's what we agreed with the provinces. They now have a very important role to play in protecting and managing nature. It has been agreed with the provinces that we will monitor this together. We have also entered into a commitment with each other to achieve those goals. If we gradually see that it becomes problematic, we have to add extra sails, but at this moment we are not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u44	I have a very brief question for the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State also recognise that the previous Cabinets have cooperated and contributed to the fact that nature in the Netherlands is doing well at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u45	There have undoubtedly been previous Cabinets that have made a positive contribution to nature in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u46	I think that is a good answer, because the Secretary of State was just talking about what the stakes were in the last two years. I can assure him that you can't see that in nature right away. That means that the previous years were very good. This is also apparent from a wide range of statistics on the development of bird species since 1980. They're all very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u47	I think Mr Geurts is also referring to the previous cabinet, to which his party was a member. Let me say it in a subtle way: this cabinet has decided for a reason to step up nature policy. There were good reasons for that. Otherwise, at least we would not have been able to achieve the ambitions I have just spoken about. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to agree on this in this cabinet. Mr Geurts also asked other questions in his term. He referred to the report of his party mate, Mrs Schreijer-Pierik, Member of the European Parliament. He asked when the Chamber could expect a response to her report. In the first half of March, I think I can send a letter to the Chamber on the fitness check for the Birds and Habitats Directives. As I said, we are holding a conference on this at the end of June. I will also include a response to Mrs Schreijer-Pierik's report. Mr Geurts also asked why grasslands are considered vulnerable and whether they could not be more diverse. It already is. Not all grasslands have been identified as vulnerable. Only if there is a foraging area, for example, or if there is a specific habitat type, blue-grassland, these areas are considered vulnerable. I don't think Mr. Heerema had deliberately asked any questions. I cannot therefore provide them with an answer either. In doing so, I think I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you very much. You never really know. Mr Van Gerven, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u49	I would like to hear further clarification from the Secretary of State at my request to mention, together with the provinces, intermediate objectives for the number of hectares to be acquired, set up and managed. Is the Secretary of State prepared to meet with the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u50	No, I wouldn't want to do that like that. We have entered into a commitment with each other. I see the provinces are doing the same. Land is being acquired, but our horizons are a few years away. So it is also up to the provinces how they complete this. That is the essence of the decentralisation of nature policy. We have agreed on the final objective. I see the commitment in the provinces to work on that. I do not think that you should end up in some sort of distrust and set up some sort of control instrument where you say: we are going to keep you exactly to objectives, you have to buy so much every year or else I will tap your fingers. That is not the way we work together. Given the commitment of the provinces, I do not think there is any reason for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u51	An interruption to avoid a second deadline, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u52	Well, I don't think the second term is being avoided, Mr President, but that's not just up to me in this case. It is not a question of persevering the provinces. For example, we agreed that 680,000 hectares would be acquired within a given timeframe. Then it's good to meet where we all think we're at that and that time. This is all the more true because the Secretary of State, the Cabinet, is ultimately systemically responsible for the total, also vis-à-vis Europe and so on. Would it not be desirable to agree on this in good agreement with the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u53	No. We have agreed to monitor progress and to discuss progress in good understanding and collegiality with each other if it is not enough. That is the whole point of decentralisation of nature policy. The provinces are responsible for the protection of the existing areas, but also for the further construction of the Nature Network and for the acquisition of areas for this purpose. We are discussing with each other the progress in this matter. I do not feel very strongly about putting them past the measuring bar to see whether the exact number of hectares has been reached this year; that is not the nature of the cooperation either. When progress is made in a province, we discuss it with each other to see what can be done about it. This is a way of cooperation which I like and which reflects the trust that this Chamber has given to the provinces and the way in which the provinces implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u54	With which we came at the end of the first term on the side of the Secretary of State. Is there a need for a second term? There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u55	About the order: I want a suspension of a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u56	My next question would have been whether there is a need for suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u57	Yeah, there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u58	Let's start with the second term. Speaking time shall be one third of the speaking time during the first term. That is one minute, in which possible motions must also be tabled. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to file two motions in one minute, so it'll be read out very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several recent studies conclude that greater public commitment is needed to protect European nature and halt biodiversity loss;]] [[Whereas Dutch ambitions have not yet been achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to express its ambitions rapidly and subsequently to promote them at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u60	They're short motions. I've read every word so far, but I'm gonna slow it down a little bit now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the evaluation of European nature policy is partly carried out under the Dutch Presidency;]] [[noting that European nature is in poor condition and that two thirds of protected animals and plants are under threat;]] [[Whereas the restoration of nature and the cessation of biodiversity loss should be a priority;]] [[calls on the Government to use the European Presidency to ensure that the evaluation of European nature policy is high on the European agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. I have an ambition motion for an ambitious Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the mid-term review of the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2020, further progress is needed to achieve its objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a schematic overview of all measures taken and to be taken to achieve the European nature objectives in good time, indicating, per measure, the state of progress, including when the additional measure will be taken if the claim is insufficient,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koşer Kaya and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the beekeepers in Tilburg, who inspired me, I submit the next motion, following my substantive contribution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas bees are of great importance to our nature and food supply;]] [[noting that bee populations suffer from a lack of food caused by low biodiversity;]] [[noting that there are many set-aside areas in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the sowing of set-aside land with bee-friendly plants is carried out in the Bee Council;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which measures aimed at sowing set-aside land, as far as agricultural land is concerned, can be financed with bee-friendly crops from the greening of the common agricultural policy and POP3, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leenders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u63	I think Mr Leenders is expecting this interruption. He's already started in the AO Crop Protection about the bees and the like. That AO hasn't been completed yet. There will be a second deadline and a written round, as agreed at the procedural meeting this morning. It does not seem very nice to me that Mr Leenders is now trying to settle something he has been working on in the AA by means of a motion in this debate. I'm just wondering if you can do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u64	I would just like to say that an AO is a general consultation, a consultation with the cabinet that takes place in a room other than this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u65	In any case, I do not know any regulations prohibiting this. In general discussions on plant protection, I raised this issue after the President did not quite wrongly say to me that it was not on the agenda in that consultation. I'll see if the Secretary of State will respond to that. In fact, it did not belong very well in that debate, but much more in this afternoon's debate. That is why I thought it would be excellent to discuss it in this debate. You can choose to give a general consideration, but also to help the biodiversity in the Netherlands, which is heavily at stake, a bit forward. That's what I chose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u66	I note in general that Members can choose what they want to talk about and table motions as much as they want. The question of whether that is wise is another chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u67	All I can see is that there has been an input into a consultation other than this. I can very well imagine that this consultation will be concluded before a corresponding motion is tabled. I note that this has not happened, because the motion has now been tabled and sufficiently supported, and is therefore being put to the vote. I would like to inform Mr Leender that we are not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u68	I don't need any further reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. What we should not do here is behave like bad secondary school students, who applaud the fact that they have achieved a 7 in two subjects in order to refrain from communicating that the rest of the list does not contain enough. I see too little ambition and too little sense of urgency in this State Secretary and in some of his colleagues in the Chamber. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the implementation agenda "Natural Capital: Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity" was adopted in 2013 as implementation of, inter alia, the International Biodiversity Agreements and the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2020;]] [[Considering that the State of Nature report shows that more effort is needed to achieve the objectives set out in the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2020;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has committed itself to these objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to step up biodiversity policy and inform the Chamber on this matter by the summer at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in agreement with the provinces, to indicate intermediate objectives for the number of hectares to be acquired, set up and managed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Plan Bureau for the Environment expects international long-term targets for the proper conservation of all designated species of animals, plants and habitat types to be not yet within reach by 2027;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Planning Office for the Environment to examine the use of resources needed to achieve the objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24607-106]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u71	Inspired by Mr Leenders, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in motion 21501-32, No. 684 the government is invited to commit itself to a European moratorium on all applications of neonicotinoids and fipronil;]] [[Whereas only part of the neonicotinoids in the European Union are prohibited or restricted in use and the Centre for Agriculture and the Environment considers that 85% of the use of neonicotinoids remains in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to use the period of the Dutch EU Presidency to ban dangerous neonicotinoids for bees in accordance with motion 21501-32, No. 684,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me 12 seconds' extra speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has identified all grassland within Birds and Habitats Directive areas as ecologically vulnerable, whereas the Regulation does not require this;]] [[Whereas the ban on the conversion of grassland into all the Birds Directive areas is a restriction of ownership, which does not necessarily contribute to bird populations;]] [[Whereas a differentiated approach to grassland in Birds Directive areas, some of which could be transposed, could, for example, benefit the germination population;]] [[calls on the Government, for the next reform of the CAP, to make it possible, through pilots, to distinguish between the ecologically sensitive area and the need for the ban on sales in Birds Directive areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u74	I would just like to point out to Mr Geurts that he used a wonderful quote in the first term. That sounded very optimistic and I started reading it immediately, because I missed something. However, I missed even more, because where Mr Geurts made a point, the quote goes on: "But the increase compensates only a fraction of the great loss in the last century and is limited to animals in and around the water. On land nature is still under constant pressure, especially due to intensive farming. Also in the so-called open nature areas, such as dunes and heathland, we see a strong decline in nature." I quoted the Living Planet Report. Can Mr Geurts respond briefly to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u75	We can bring in all the reports and then tell you which parts have been quoted and which parts have not been quoted. I can do the same to Mr Grashoff, but I am not going to do that. I have here a Sovon report with a lot of graphs on how the birds are doing in the Netherlands. I have made yellow which species do very well: purple heron, stork, spoonbill, sea eagle, hawk, buzzard, etc. That is enough to support what I said in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u76	I can only say that Mr Geurts deliberately takes the positives out of his mouth and therefore indeed behaves like the pupil who boasts about the two sevens, but does not do the inadequates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u77	I can only conclude that GroenLinks has also shopped very selectively in the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u78	That's clear again and again. Mr Heerema will refrain from speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to the motions in this time limit. With the motion in part No. 101 calls on Mr Wassenberg to make our ambitions known soon. I think I have already done so in this debate. Our ambition is to match the goals we have agreed on at European level. I have also indicated that we have already used a lot of new policies to achieve these goals. So I advise against this motion. With the motion in part No. 102 calls on Mr Wassenberg and Mrs Koşer Kaya to use the European Presidency to get the evaluation of nature policy high on the European agenda. That motion is unnecessary, because we already do. I informed the Chamber that from 27 to 29 June we are organising a conference on the evaluation of current European nature policy, namely the Birds and Habitats Directives. I therefore also advise against this motion. With the motion in part No. 103 ask Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mr Wassenberg for a schematic overview of all the measures taken and to be taken, indicating the progress and the results of each measure. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. You cannot indicate the effect per measure. It is precisely about the coherence of all the different policy instruments that must contribute to achieving the goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u80	A question for explanation, no discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman, always a question for explanation. The Secretary of State has just indicated in his first term that a number of measures have been taken or have been taken. The point is, however, that we cannot at all check whether this is going to be effective and what deadlines apply. This motion is therefore intended as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u82	All the instruments I have mentioned have been discussed in detail with the Chamber and have often received broad support from the Chamber. I actually assume that the Chamber has done so in the belief that the whole package contributes to achieving the goals we have agreed on. In any case, that is also the conviction of the cabinet. It is really impossible for each measure to indicate exactly what progress is and what the measure contributes to achieving the objectives. That's how you rig up a whole administrative circus, without actually giving you the insight you're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u83	The motion in part No. 104.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yes, that is Mr Leender's motion on the Bijenberaad and the measures aimed at sowing set-aside land. I shall put the sowing of set-aside land in the Bee Council and also to the attention of the lecturerate we co-finance. I will also ask for the various parties involved, such as municipalities and provinces, to be involved. The greening of the common agricultural policy already encourages flower borders for bees. Last week, in general consultation, I indicated that I would like to look at additional possibilities within the common agricultural policy, particularly within POP3, the Rural Development Programme. That is why I shall leave this motion to the House. With the motion in part No. 105 calls on Mr Grashoff to step up biodiversity policy. We have discussed this extensively in this debate. Several policy instruments have just been deployed. Mr Grashoff referred in his motion to the report The State of Nature in the EU. That report has not yet been able to provide an insight into the effects of the policies deployed. His observation is therefore not entirely correct. I said that we have many new instruments and that this cabinet has invested extra money in the belief that this could lead us to achieve the goals set. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 105. In the motion in part No. 106 Mr Van Gerven asked the government to pursue intermediate objectives in consultation with the provinces. We have already discussed this at length. I reject this motion and refer to the debate we have had on it. In the motion in part No. 107, Mr Van Gerven asked the government to ask the Planning Office for the Environment to examine the use of resources needed to achieve the objectives. The Planning Office for the Environment already carries out an evaluation of the nature parks and also periodically examines the progress of nature policy. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u85	Does the Plan Bureau for the Environment investigate what is requested in this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u86	The Planning Office for the Environment monitors the progress of nature policy. I know the Planning Bureau: whenever necessary, it will make recommendations to further strengthen that policy. If that is the answer to Mr Van Gerven's question, I think the planning agency is doing something about what Mr Van Gerven is asking here. I would also like to describe the motion as a little superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u87	I don't think that motion is superfluous. The Secretary of State said that this is a policy review so far, to see what it will produce in the future and whether it will be beneficial or not. That's not quite the same as what's in the motion. It says: Suppose that the PBL expects us not to achieve the goals, what measures are needed to achieve that goal? The latter is an addition. A Secretary of State seeking to step up policy should be in favour of this. So I don't understand the Secretary of State's negative appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u88	I indicated that the planning agency is already monitoring and doing an evaluation, including of the Natural Pact that we agreed with the provinces. As we know, the planning agency has an independent position and will therefore not fail to advise where it is deemed necessary. In his motion, Mr Van Gerven already assumes that we are not going to achieve these goals and that we should therefore now explicitly ask the Planning Bureau to examine the resources needed to achieve those objectives. I have repeatedly argued in this debate that this is far too early. We have just deployed a number of instruments. So it is too early to assess whether or not we are achieving the goals. The Cabinet is convinced that these instruments will contribute to this, and I believe that, given the relatively broad support for all these instruments, a large part of the Chamber is, too. So I'm deceiving this motion, and I'm sticking with that. The content of the motion in part No. 108 could be dealt with in the follow-up to the general consultation on plant protection. Then we were in the middle of this discussion. I cannot carry out this motion, formulated in this way. We discussed this extensively in that general consultation. In my letter to the Chamber, I indicated that the Ctgb College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products is once again looking at a number of points around the various neonicotinoids. At the request of the Netherlands, the European Commission has set up an expert group on sustainable plant protection, which will appoint short-term and long-term actions and will try to promote the availability of low-risk means. This should be a recommendation within six months, which I would like to discuss in the European Council. So we are also committed to this at EU level. But as the motion has now been formulated, I must discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u89	Should I note that the Secretary of State is not planning to make a motion from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr President, you are speaking on the order of business. This was just one of the subjects of the suspended general consultation on plant protection. So we can talk about this in detail later. In the first term and in my letter to the Chamber, I indicated the division of powers. I have also said that it is not within my competence to ban resources, unless it is a very special situation. We discussed such a situation: the drug imidacloprid. Of these, the exceedances are such that, if there is no improvement in this and the Ctgb indicates that it cannot or will not act against it, I will proceed with a ban. But that's a rather exceptional situation. Mr Van Gerven also knows that we have arranged that the Ctgb is about the authorisation of resources and is therefore the first person to withdraw that authorisation, and that EFSA advises at European level on the authorisation of substances and that this is subsequently agreed by the European Council. That's how we arranged it. A request to the cabinet to ban self-employed substances is, if we do not have a serious cause for this, as in the case of imidacloprid, a fairly unopposed exercise. This will be taken down by a judge immediately. That is why I have also indicated in the AO how we are going to deal with it. As I indicated back then, I asked the Ctgb to look again at those neonicotinoids, based on a number of reports that have been published. In this way, I will give effect to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u91	I've just been addressed to admissibility. Mr Van Gerven may table any motion he wishes. Perhaps it would be wise, if he wanted to deepen this further, to wait for the general consultation, but that is up to Mr Van Gerven. The position of the Secretary of State on this motion is now well known and I do not think that we need to discuss it further now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u92	No, but I do have another request to the Secretary of State. I will hold the motion, but I would ask the Secretary of State if he still wishes to comment on the feasibility of that motion. A majority of the Chamber made that request. We'll come back to that later. So that question is still there. The House would like to operate under the precautionary principle, and that goes a step further than what the Secretary of State has said so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u93	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (26407, No. 108). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u94	I know the views of the Chamber and I understand the concerns very well, given all the reports. I will go into these questions during the written consultation and the follow-up to the general consultation on plant protection products that will take place afterwards. I think that's the right place for that. In the motion in part No. Mr Geurts asked for the next reform of the CAP by means of pilots to allow a distinction to be made between the ecologically sensitive area and the need for a ban on sales in bird directive areas. It is difficult to assess the consequences of this request, but I am prepared to look at it. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u95	This brings us to the end of the second-term reply from the Secretary of State. I propose to vote on the nine motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday.
