ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u1	As we agreed this morning, the Minister will now deal with the motions and answer the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. Only a few questions have been asked and a number of motions have been tabled. I'm definitely gonna respond to that. Mr Van Dijk said: either much more investment or less tasks. I think I have made it clear what my preference is and what we are now going to build in the context of the multiannual perspective. Reducing the number of tasks in times of uncertainty seems to me to be an extremely poor ambition. I'm not going along with that. Mr Van Dijk also made a comment about Trump. He asked if his election could lead to relaxation. Could Mr. Elias please keep your voice down? Then I can focus on what I want to say. Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk said that I had made a statement on Putin. That is not the case. I was asked to reflect on possible leisure policy. I have said that I have no idea what President Trump is going to do other than what candidate Trump has said. In response to Mr Van Dijk's question, I think it is too early to speculate. The best man isn't even president yet, but president elect. We only know his campaign statements. We will really have to wait and see, but I have given a number of reasons why I find it extremely strange that we could suddenly return to business as usual. There are still a few things that have happened and they all need to be addressed. Mr Teeven asked about the DBBO. He was not the only one; Mrs Eijsink also pointed this out. I've just indicated that I'm going to respond to the letter writer myself. In fact, I'm gonna start the conversation. Besides, I'm not gonna say anything in advance. I want to know exactly what's going on and exactly where the pain is now. The Chamber knows that over the years I and my predecessors have had to carry out a number of reorganisations, that all kinds of labour-conditional and legal arrangements have been agreed and that there has been considerable negotiation. I can't see over this, even though it's very tempting to say that we're gonna take care of that right now, to get rid of it. But we don't know which box of Pandora we'll open. I would like to say once again to Mr Teeven: I am going to have that conversation and I am going to look very carefully at the way in which communication was communicated at the time and whether something can be done about it. Mrs Eijsink asked about access to the Veterans' Office. Is it guaranteed now? Is everyone getting the help he or she needs? "One man, one plan," those are her words. I am not saying anything new to her when I say that the Veterans' Office was opened on 11 June 2014 by myself and that it has now become a well-known and fully-fledged gateway to care and services for veterans, military war victims and service victims and their relationships. The Veterans' Office is well-known. The threshold to care is visibly lowered. That is good news, because it has turned out that veterans are really able to come to us with problems faster than before and report to the point of contact. In the Veterans' Note, it has been reported that I repeat that the increase in the number of care questions has led to capacity problems in the coordination of care and in the specialised social work. But, as I have said, in close consultation with interested parties, the DOD has been able to take various measures. For the purpose of the Healthcare Coordination section, an extension of 3 FTEs has been agreed. That's an increase of 15%. In addition, some efficiency measures have been taken. In addition, zero line support is being used to relieve the burden on the care coordinators. However, the demand continues to rise, as Mrs Eijsink pointed out. We have also discussed with each other earlier that the integration of the new care coordinators takes some time. It'll take about six months. Until then, they are not fully employable, even if you would like to. It's gonna take some time to work in. This, of course, also means something for the services provided by the Veterans' Office. The starting point is that veterans with acute problems are helped immediately and immediately. There are also veterans with a less urgent care question and they sometimes have to wait a little longer. The starting point is, and there can be no doubt about that, that we are doing everything we can to keep care at the high level that has been achieved in recent years by the Veterans' Office and the LZV, the National Care System for Veterans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u3	It's a good thing the Minister says that again. This is exactly what we discussed in June. So I am aware of that, but my concern is more that the finances are insufficient for the supply and capacity required. What the Minister says, we know that, and I realize that, but we are still a few months away. We have made a difference between care that is acute and less urgent. That was already stated in the June note. The intention is not to create different corridors behind the front door of the Veterans' Office: you are urgent, you are less urgent. That is not the intention, I say with emphasis. It's gotta be low-threshold. I hear too many sounds from veterans themselves that it takes too long. The waiting lists are now being reassigned and are too long. We're gonna miss our target. Those few weeks, those few months, anyway, could be too much trouble. No one has to convince each other about that. We all know that. So what is the Minister going to do, more than what we have already heard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u4	I have just indicated that a number of measures have been taken which are effective, but not the day after. We will, of course, take stock of the situation every month and act accordingly. We're not gonna sit back and see how things go wrong. We will keep a close eye on developments and act on them as well. A number of measures have been taken. It takes a few moments for them to actually have an effect. We're in that situation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u5	I understand all this, but it really takes too long for some people. I would like to know from the Minister: are there enough finance for what is needed? If you can't do it right now, I'd like a supplementary letter. I hear from various organizations that people are falling apart. People who go to the Veterans' Office do not need this, nor do the employees who work there. They have to be able to do their job. The Veterans note was from June and it was written in May. So that was really six months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u6	I have no indication at this time that the finances are inadequate, but I am of course following that up. I will inform you separately. It is by no means the intention that people fall between shore and ship. Apparently, you have signals I don't know. We'll check it out and we'll come back to you. Mrs Günal-Gezer spoke in the footsteps of others about the effects of missions on readiness. I repeat what I said to her and to Mrs Eijsink in the first term: I really understood the message. I'm working on it. Mr De Roon asked about the costs of equiping the frigates, the LCF, with cruising weapons. I promised to come back to this in second term, but as I said in the first period on a completely different subject, there is no such thing as a price list that you request from entrepreneurs and dealers. So I can't just give you an estimate of the costs. My people just confirmed that. It doesn't say that much, in all honesty, if I just gave up the cost of a cross-flight weapon, because you also have to look at fire control, spare parts, training and that sort of thing. In short, I repeat what I said in the first term. Purchase of these weapons is not at issue right now. These systems could be part of the process, but that is a political consideration of the planned expansion of the impact force. At the moment that political weighting is there, there is also a DMP procedure, so that you and I can fully understand what it is all about. But it's not the issue right now. I'm going to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u7	I asked the Minister two more questions. The first is which of the three scenarios was the right one. I had just previewed it: bend 85 million, need an additional 1 billion, or sufficient resources available. The second is whether the minister, in the footsteps of others, was prepared to say sorry. It may be that the Minister simply does not intend to answer that question, but I would prefer to hear it at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u8	Over the past four years, I have done a great deal of work with my colleagues in this cabinet. We will certainly continue to do so in the coming months, even after the elections, until there is a new cabinet. There's a day in, day out fight to get and keep the DOD on the right path. I'm not gonna apologize for that. I believe that Mr Knops wholeheartedly supports that. Then the scenarios...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u9	I'm not going to ask the question again, but I don't support that. That'll be obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u10	You've already shown that in your posture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u11	Maybe there'll be a bunch of flowers after all. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u12	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u13	I'll move on to the motions. I do not recommend the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 29, because we have a regular AO about MINUSMA on December 22nd. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 30 on veterans seems initially sympathetic, but I think that the Chamber is doing itself, and I too, hugely inadequate. Mrs Eijsink has just expressed her concerns about the Veterans' Office. I will come back to that, but we have already started a lot of work on this issue in recent years. There will be an evaluation and this point will also be addressed. All in all, I advise against this motion, given what has already been done, done and investigated, and is still under investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u14	I'm getting messages from veterans who feel terribly abandoned. I know that the Chamber and the Minister are doing a lot, but we also need to look at the practice on the street. There are veterans who are very lonely and who feel abandoned. With my motion, I sought to gain more insight into their situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u15	Let us await the evaluation of veterans' policy for a moment. So much has been put in the scaffolding, so much has been organized and so much research is being done. I find this motion superfluous and premature; therefore I advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u16	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u17	Then let me make a promise. I want to hold the motion until the evaluation is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u18	At the request of Mr Jasper van Dijk, I propose his motion (14550-X, No. 30). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u19	Let me take a look at my officials in the back of the room to make sure that we keep this in mind in the evaluation. I do not know whether Mr Knops still intends to make his motion on item No. 31, but as it is now formulated, I cannot take over her or give Chamber judgment. It is too early for a result obligation. I've already explained a few times what the CBS study looks like. There are two phases and we hope that something will actually be on the table in spring 2017. But I don't have the CBS entirely on a string in that respect. If Mr Knops insists on his request to provide for full price compensation in the Spring Paper, I must advise against the motion. If he holds the motion, that would be absolutely fine. But if he deletes that one sentence, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u20	Let's see if we can figure something out. When I delete the whole sentence, a lot of the operative part falls away. The CBS investigation is coming up. Could the Minister live with the following operative part: "Is the government asking, on the basis of the CBS investigation, to provide a Dutch defence index and to provide full price compensation for Defence'? I will then drop the timing of the Spring Note, because I understand that the Minister does not quite control it. But in this way we retain the ambition to regulate the price compensation properly, because it was also the reason for this research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u21	Yes, but the full allocation of the price compensation... you know what, I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I would add that there is also a political component to it. Anyway, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u22	After I take out that spring note time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u23	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u24	The Knops/Bitch motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in spring the results of the CBS study on the possibility of a defence-specific index will become known;]] [[Whereas the incomplete compensation of Defence for higher price increases in equipment and ammunition further undermines the purchasing power of Defence every year;]] [[Whereas delay in decision-making on a defence index is irresponsible in the light of the recovery of the armed forces and the deteriorating security situation;]] [[Calls on the Government, on the basis of the CBS investigation, to provide a Dutch defence index and to provide full price compensation for Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 31 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u25	The motion in part No. 32 belongs to Mrs Eijsink and a lot of members of this Chamber. I've rarely seen such a motion. The motion concerns the special position of the military. She's sympathetic, and that's why I'm leaving the verdict to the Chamber. I've said all I can about it. Then there's the De Roon motion to part No. 33 on the Royal Marechaussee and its deployment for the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. Protecting and monitoring the European external borders is a core task of the Royal Marechaussee. These are also our external borders. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The De Roon motion in part No. 34 is about cruise missiles on frigates. There's no harm in studying, but I can't commit results to it. If Mr De Roon explains the motion in this way, because it is also about a political weighting in due course, I can say: Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u26	As the Minister explains it now, it sounds as if she is willing to study, but whether and when we get a position on it is unclear. That is not satisfactory to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u27	It's a little early now. Again, studying can't hurt. I thought I'd meet Mr De Roon sometime. However, it is too early. If he explains the motion as I have just explained to her, I'll leave it to the Chamber, but otherwise I'm going to dissuade her. Then Mr De Roon asks me, for example, to bring forward certain funds to make all this possible, and I cannot begin to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u28	I'm not asking for funds to be brought forward at all. I just want to know what the outcome of that study is. After that, we can indeed talk about it in a political process. I am not asking the Minister to take a position on the purchase of those missiles now. I just want to know what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u29	Then Mr De Roon and I are in complete agreement. There's nothing wrong with studying. There is no obligation to do so. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u30	But do we ever get a conclusion from that study?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u31	Of course. The Belhaj motion in part No. 35 is about cyber-reservists. I understand her concern and I also understand the urgency she wants to convey. I have already explained that two working groups are concerned with accelerating their recruitment. Honestly, it would be a good idea for the Chamber to stress the urgency once again. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Belhaj/Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 36 is about halving expenditure on service cars. I want to be clear about that. This is something I am very critical of myself. But halving the service cars, which also have a purpose, goes too far. I'll take the fat off, and we're working on it. In June 2016 we decided on a 25% reduction in the service car pool and we are now looking again at what can be removed. But just halving rücksichtslos, while there is a business management aspect that really matters, that is not possible. I also think this is a very bad thing for business. That Mrs Belhaj keeps me critical, I understand, but I'm really going to dissuade this motion. The Belhaj motion in part No. 37 refers to the need to devote at least 2% of the Defence budget to innovation. I think I have already responded to this in my written replies. At present, we do not have the financial means to reach the EDA standard. If I am asked to speed up the R&D budget and inform the House of Representatives about this in the Spring 2017 note, then I really don't see any way to fight that for each other. This motion is therefore also subject to uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u32	The final motion states: "Asks the government to set up a growth path to increase the innovation budget in Defence to 2%." It doesn't say "accelerated to rise."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u33	Charming, absolutely, but that still means I'm dependent on future decisions and new investment impulses. So I have already indicated that the aim is absolutely to increase that budget. There is something else, for example, the decentralised budgets for the Defence components. I do not recommend this motion, but I have left another motion by Mrs Belhaj to judge Chamber, so it is well balanced. I can't embrace everything. Then the motion to part No. 38 on transparency. I say to Mrs Belhaj: I have already responded in writing to your colleague Sjoerdsma. He has talked to us about this many times, he has tabled a motion on it and we have worked on it. There will be another confidential briefing with your colleagues from the Foreign Affairs Committee. So I would also like to discourage this motion, because we are doing what we can. In this context, we have a number of things to consider, for example, with regard to the security of our people on the ground and with regard to state security, i.e. with regard to the consequences or repercussions that may have for possible openness. I am not going to repeat all this, but if Mrs Belhaj has looked carefully at previous information we have provided on this, then the differences between the Netherlands and other countries on the deployment of the F-16s are actually minimal. That has once become very big, but if you zoom in well then you can see that that is actually very clear. At the moment we don't fly with the F-16s either and so there is nothing to report about the arms deployment. So I understand where this motion comes from, but I find it a bit unfortunate, because this is an injustice to the work that has been done in connection with the Sjoerdsma motion. Then the motion to part No. 39 by Mr Voordewind and Mr Dijkgraaf. Such a motion is always nice, but I also say that I cannot anticipate the possible release of funds at all. If there is already a release of funds, it is simply decided in the Cabinet. So, as a member of this cabinet, I really must discourage this motion. She's premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u34	I understand formally, but the Minister himself said in her first term that she would like extra money. Can it at least leave the House to decide on this motion? It may then be able to wait for the Court's opinion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u35	This is the first time that the Chamber has allowed itself so much to be placed in the hands of the Minister. Let me leave it at that. I think I've made myself clear: I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 40 on mental caregivers amazes me. Mr Voordewind is always committed and always hard on this subject, and rightly so. I appreciate that, too. I have always worked on this with the Christian Union. Only, I don't understand this motion very well because it's already moving together. If we're gonna get bigger, hopefully we're gonna get bigger. But beware: if we get smaller, then of course it goes the other way again. I do not fully understand this motion either by using the terms 'compartment' and 'compartments'. I regard her as superfluous and therefore dissuade her, because I am very off the line: anything that is unnecessary must be discouraged. But I think that Mr Voordewind and I are ultimately on the same lines with regard to mental care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u36	May I understand the Minister as follows? As the defence budget rises and resources increase again, let us also increase mental care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u37	That depends on what you use those resources for. If I were only to invest in water drilling, long-range rifles and an update of the Apache or a replacement of the Fennek, I wouldn't need mental care for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u38	We understand each other well: it's about staff, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u40	If that's what the Minister means, then the motion is indeed superfluous and I can withdraw it. I am satisfied with the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u41	Fine. I really appreciate that. Thank you very much, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u42	Since the Voordewind motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u43	I come to Mr Grashoff's motion on item No. 41 on a national-wide data inventory. I sincerely regret that Mr Grashoff is still not satisfied. In my written reply, I have really explained clearly that the defence sector is more transparent than it was supposed to be in the Chamber. We're gonna keep doing that. With that, I advise against this motion. She's really redundant. The room can also control the defense at this point. Not everything requires a motion. It is a pity that a motion is always tabled, because that is how an instrument becomes a bit slut. I come to Mr Bontes' motion on item No. 42 on the NATO standard. I understand Mr Bontes. I like his enormous fight for the Defense Department. I've said that before. However, I must advise against this motion. I have outlined the multiannual perspective. In any case, I have given the building blocks with which we will have to build in the coming years, whatever the cabinet may look like in a subsequent period. Whether or not VNL is in there, we do not know that, but one thing is clear: this concerns all of us. That is what I said in the first term. Furthermore, a next cabinet is about a next budget. I have made it clear what my opinion is. That is exactly what I will give my successor or what I will give at the formation table, for example. So I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. I also advise 44 of Mr Houwers. We have talked clearly and extensively about the AOW-hole, about the RVU tax. We all have a clear point that something that was decided in 2005 can not be filled out suddenly, because it is convenient for us now, otherwise. Yesterday, the groups of the VVD and the PvdA tabled a very good amendment, which provides relief for Defence. The AOW-hole, the appeal on which the court ruled, is settled. There's gonna be an appeal. I think this is the most important communication right now. I still read all the articles, including in the newspapers, about 'half amenities'. No, it's gonna be an appeal that's gonna do justice to the judge's ruling. It is not a halfway house, it is a whole facility. It is a provision to which our people are entitled. Finally, I come to the motion in part No. 45 by Mr Öztürk. I think I have been quite clear about this in the written reply. NATO is a military alliance. Furthermore, I have already outlined the multiannual perspective for the Dutch armed forces. To conclude this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u44	It is true that NATO is a military organization. But we believe that preventing wars is part of it. If you prevent a war, you also save a lot of resources and money. I also mention the 2% standard. If we invest more in diplomacy and other matters, then we can also save a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u45	I have indicated in my written replies that I am in favour of the so-called 'integrated approach'. This means that the military trail can never be the only track that is being walked. You always do it in close connection with the diplomatic trail and the trail of development cooperation, for example. These things go hand in hand. It is not for nothing that there is close cooperation, actually one-on-one cooperation by myself, the foreign minister and the colleague for BHOS. It is important, however, that the Netherlands also has sufficient resources to be able to follow the military trail at all in the context of deterrent, collective defence and the contribution to a stable international legal order. The world consists of more than just flowers and bees. We must be able to protect ourselves in an unsafe world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u46	With diplomacy, you can also offer protection. The Minister knows that, too. All we want is for the countries to show what they are doing about reconstruction and preventing wars. Then you can also see in the index who does what to prevent wars. That's what saves us. This also makes it visible to the citizen who is in it and who is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u47	Diplomacy is very important. However, I also said this morning that I find this plea rather difficult, because it does not always go on. Especially when a suicide bomber is about to blow himself up in front of you. There's nothing to talk about. So you do need military resources as well. Once again, the NATO alliance is a military alliance. Diplomacy and development cooperation resources are being developed much more under the umbrella of the European Union. There is close cooperation between NATO and the EU. Let the NATO alliance remain the military alliance; that is so clear for a number of reasons. One doesn't rule out the other. The judgment continues to be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u48	In the second term, I asked whether it was right for the Minister to send the report of the IMG to the Chamber following the whistleblower in Eindhoven. He has indicated that he will give his consent. That was the condition. If this is correct, my question is when will the Minister do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u49	I have indicated that I find it truly annoying when the reporter himself makes all kinds of announcements via Twitter and I have to react to them through the Chamber, which leads to even more tweets. Me and my organization are talking to the reporter. We'll see what exactly can and can't be sent. When I can do that, I don't know yet. If I can, I won't be reluctant. I'd like to say the following. I find it complicated to pick up a few loose ends on individual matters and place them here. This is a complex and very sensitive matter. As Mr Van Dijk knows, I have spoken to the reporter. He's also been rehabilitated. He's back with the armed forces. I'm glad. I find it difficult if we want to take each other's measure at this point, because that is not the intention at all. There has just been a proper external investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u50	No misunderstanding: I indicated that the man was treated in a terrible way by the way the doctor invented a fictitious doctor's visit. The Minister may call that loose threads, but I think that is a serious mistake. I thank the Minister for the undertaking that she will inform the Chamber about the transmission of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u51	Now we're gonna do it again. Something is being said that listens a little more closely. That is why I have proposed that we stick as much as possible to the texts used by the Research Council on Integrity Government, the OIO. That's what we both attach to. The same OIO has established, as in the investigation carried out by the IMG, that in the present case there has been a careless write-off of a conversation between the physician and the commander in the setting of a social-medical team interview. It happened under the incorrect code in the medical records. That nuance also matters in this conversation. But let us not do this now in an interrupting debate. I'm gonna see what I can do in sending the IMG report. Let us also note that it recovered later. I spoke to the reporter, too. Mr Van Dijk knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u52	There are two further amendments which still have to be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u53	I honestly thought that Mr Knops and Mr Dijkgraaf had already responded to the amendment by the Minister for Finance. He's been critical of that, as always. I have already responded to Mr Harbers and Mr Nijboer's amendment, namely that I am very pleased with it. Finally, I would like to thank the Chamber once again for its cooperation over recent years. You haven't gotten rid of me yet, I'll tell you right away. We have fought and had different opinions that clashed, but we have mainly worked together and made compromises. I like that very much. 'Cause let's face it, without building bridges, we're not getting anywhere. As I said this morning, fragmentation and polarisation on something as essential as our freedom and security bring us nowhere at all. We're not here yet. That is also what we have established with each other. In the coming years, I will see much more cooperation, in whatever composition, in order to ensure that we can continue to be safe in that unsafe world. Let us be clear: our defence effort is ultimately a derivative of what the Netherlands wants to mean in the world, what we stand for, our identity, our values and our interests. We are a fragile country, precisely because we are such an open country. However, we are also a country that is able to connect, which has a high regard for the international legal order, whether or not encouraged by well-understood self-interest. That too is typical Dutch. Such a country includes a modern military force that can also make a significant contribution in the future. I look forward to working together in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-17.u54	I thank the Minister for her answers. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament. And I thank the support officials and the Defense personnel for their presence. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. On the defence budget and its amendments, including the amendment tabled by Mr Harbers and Mr Nijboer on the AOW-hole (3450-X, No. 27) will be voted on in the week of 6 December.
