ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. We're going to a world with 9 billion people. If we want all these people to be able to live a decent life in this world, then we need to deal with energy and raw materials much more efficiently. That is why D66, together with a large part of this Chamber, is committed to a circular economy. In the media, the picture was created that the waste carefully separated by the consumer might simply end up in the waste burner. It seems very important to me to put that right with the Secretary of State today. We need to get to a circular economy. The Secretary of State recently signed a fine initiative in Brussels with a number of partner countries. There are even innovative companies that make new fuels out of old plastic. I'm going to ask the Secretary of State a few questions to clarify this article. Can the Secretary of State take away the image that there would be mountains of plastic and that collected waste would go to a burner? I would also like to look a little more at the long term. The Netherlands is good at recycling. We want to remain attractive and we want reuse to remain attractive. In that case, the low price of oil could become a point in the long term, especially since the existing agreements or contracts are at some point in time coming to an end. Does the Secretary of State share the ambition that the Netherlands should continue to collect as much as possible? Does she also believe that we should not only continue to focus on supply, but also on how we can stimulate demand for recycled plastic? PwC has made a recommendation on this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to map in line with that recommendation how we can stimulate or encourage producers to use recycled plastic in new products? Perhaps the Procurement Act or public procurement could play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Van Veldhoven for her question. I think she hit the nail on the head when she said that the Netherlands is very good at recycling. Maybe that'll suit our folk. There is frequent criticism, including of our environmental policy. We have to take this into account, but we are doing really well here and we are way ahead in Europe. It is very positive that more and more plastic is being collected. We're taking the chain one step closer. It is right that Mrs Van Veldhoven should label the circular economy as a priority of the Dutch presidency of the EU. Thanks also to Mrs Van Veldhoven's efforts we have recently been able to close a first international green deal. I'll come to the questions. What exactly is going on in practice? I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that it is wise to nuance the image that has arisen that there are mountains of plastic left in the Netherlands. We have known this lower oil price for a while, but what is apparently happening now is that some of the people in that industry who have a sales market in China have recently also been experiencing problems as a result of the disappointing economic growth in China. Conversations with different companies show a changing picture. We cannot base our own policies solely on the question of how low the price of oil is now, to which some companies are calling us, because at the time the price of oil is rising again, you could argue that the legislation that is being asked for is no longer necessary. I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that in the longer term we must indeed keep our ambition as high as possible. It can also go further up. For example, in the Ecodesign Directive, we have been advocating for a long time that there should be a percentage for the use of recycling materials. This cannot be defined nationally, as part of the processing industry requires, but it certainly can be done at European level. That is one of the points on which we are committed. We also need to take steps on this issue when buying into society. On that point, I am very willing to do what Mrs van Veldhoven proposes, because that seems to me to be an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Secretary of State and I are very close together today in our view on the importance of the circular economy. I am glad that she says that ambition must be high and remain high and may be able to go up even further. I have one more question about advocating the use of recycling materials. Of course, the fact that we cannot record this in the Netherlands, but we can record it in Europe, has everything to do with the internal market. How can we ensure that we do not transfer the problem to production outside Europe? What opportunities do the trade rules also offer to impose requirements on products coming from outside Europe, so that we do not move the environmental problem from Europe to the outside world? I certainly share the Secretary of State's ambition. I think it's about looking at how we actually fill it out. I am pleased that the Secretary of State says that we need to stimulate the demand side and that she is prepared to map out PwC's recommendations. When can we as a Chamber expect further information on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	In any case, we will be coming to the Chamber later this year with a number of major proposals on sustainable procurement and the further development of the circular economy. So I think it's a good thing we're taking this with us. I will therefore go through the recommendations. That is what I say to Mrs van Veldhoven. The use of recycling materials is indeed a matter of the internal market. We will also have to discuss with the Commission in the debates on the Ecodesign Directive what this might mean for our WTO rules and so on. I know that we set quality standards for products on many issues at European level. I think we do that without too much trouble. I therefore expect this to be a sustainable position in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'd like to see the information. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to reconsider with her colleague how there may also be an incentive in the Procurement Act to purchase as low as CO and as environmentally friendly as possible. Of course, there are also brackets here, not specifically for plastic........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Procurement Act will be discussed in the Chamber very soon, tomorrow. Perhaps the Secretary of State could discuss this with her colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	I can't promise you that. I would like to go very far, but this is a matter of asking a little bit about it, because I do not think it will be possible to have this fully discussed by tomorrow. I can imagine that such a topic will return to the theme of sustainable procurement. Of course, Mrs Van Veldhoven will have every opportunity tomorrow to have this debate with my colleague. He will undoubtedly answer Mrs Van Veldhoven's question very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	As long as it's on the Secretary of State's retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	The CDA Group is also concerned about the reuse of plastic in the Netherlands. We're getting a lot of signals about that from our supporters. To what extent does the quality of the plastic to be reused play a role? To what extent would the Secretary of State also see a stimulating task for her ministry to consider how the plastic can be reused at as high a level as possible, and at the same time re-use is attractive enough? Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	This is partly due to the way in which the plastic is collected. As that happens better, I think you have less problems with the material itself. At the same time, this is an issue that needs to be addressed by the market itself, because I believe that these people have been able to develop a good earning model. There are also fewer problems in some companies than in others. That also has to do with the market. We also want, of course, to ensure that the market in Europe and in our own country is as large as possible. We do so by means of all kinds of agreements, including in the plastic agreement, in order to stimulate recycling even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	Surely, as the Netherlands, we could be at the forefront of the quality of the plastic to be reused? Of course, we need that European market. We even need the whole world as a market, because we can't get rid of it because of the problems in China there. How will the Secretary of State promote this from her ministry? Can she explain this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	No, I can't right now, because I don't think I can and will be able to follow up on that point. I can imagine that we will look at this again, including everything we do in terms of increasing ambition. I'm also curious what exactly the problem is for the companies, but it's not all workable from I and M. I'd like to, but I'm afraid that's not the case. Excuse me: I'm afraid that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u12	The Secretary of State has already dropped the term Ecodesign Directive. The Dutch European Presidency offers opportunities for ambitious deployment. This Secretary of State is absolutely entrusted with that. We must prevent what was to be read in the media from happening. I am thinking of a commodity tax. That's a really exciting instrument. Could the Secretary of State consider to what extent this, perhaps also European, could be part of the Ecodesign Directive? When we give a price to raw materials, it becomes much more important for companies to recover these raw materials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think we already have a tax in the Netherlands that is being applied to the burning. In fact, we have built in a stimulus that makes recycling more attractive. I think that the route in Europe is mainly aimed at making recycling itself as attractive as possible. This week we made a deal with the UK, France and Belgium on secondary raw materials. In fact, this means that the rules that make recycling between these countries impossible will be broken. That is perhaps the most effective instrument. I think it's very good to bet on that. That is very promising, and we already have broad support for it. At the same time, you must always think, but I do not just have every tax incentive in my back pocket, so I cannot make any promises on that point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u14	You only received answers to two questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u15	The Secretary of State says she can't make promises, but she keeps a little door open. Can I ask her to discuss this and to inform the House of this at a later date by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u16	I am now focusing on stimulating re-use and the removal of regulations. There's gonna be a lot of energy in there. I would prefer to go down that path, because in my opinion this is the most effective. I also have less influence on the other, because it is not my responsibility. I can talk about it all kinds of things, but who knows, they fall on dry ground, and then you've moved a lot of energy, but you've achieved little. As I am very ambitious, like Mrs Dik-Faber, I would like to put my teeth in the files that I am also getting movement into.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u17	On the same subject, but with a different angle, I also have a question. How does the Secretary of State view the import of waste? It also contains plastic, but it doesn't count in the figures about the Netherlands. The Secretary of State is quite rightly proud of that. However, how does it look at stopping the import of plastic waste?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u18	I would like to be very careful with that, because the biggest problem is that we now sometimes label materials as waste, when they no longer need to be so that we can re-use them. So I do not know what effect such a proposal would have, regardless of whether it is possible to do so, given the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u19	It is very strange that we in the Netherlands are encouraging everything to turn in and recycle plastic and try to bring packaging back, but in the meantime we are importing large quantities of waste from Malta, Italy and the United Kingdom, in which everything is mixed up. In general, this goes directly into the incinerator. In the letter which the Secretary of State has already promised the Chamber, a small paragraph could be added on all the plastic we import in this way. Otherwise, close the front door, but open the back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u20	In this respect, we are doing the right thing in terms of source policy, because what we are doing at the moment with the circular economy package and with the processing package is that we are going to regulate at European level that all those countries that are doing much worse than we are doing raise the quality of their processing. For some it does not go far enough, but for me it is very hopeful to see that it will bring the entire European waste chain to a higher level and thus prevent what Mrs Van Tongeren is now pointing out. So yes, you should also look at the back door, but you should also improve European policy across the board. This also has the advantage of reducing our overall lead, which just gives us the opportunity to move faster. Because with that we raise the bottom, the bar for ourselves can come up a little higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u21	We can meet a great deal at European level, but in this case I think it is particularly important how we dealt with it at national level. We have a framework agreement on sustainable packaging. The problems raised today are mainly related to the plastic-hero system, a collection system. The Secretary of State has just promised Mrs Van Veldhoven a letter. I would like to add to that how the plastic hero system currently works and whether business not only looks at the cost aspect, but also involves sustainability ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u22	We will keep the Chamber regularly informed of the progress of this agreement. I don't think there's anything wrong with doing that at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u23	It would have been nice if we had discussed this two weeks ago in a debate rather than today in Question Time. The Secretary of State agrees with me that the framework agreement on packaging has brought enormous benefits. Every year, 120 million to 150 million are invested by industry. Municipalities have a very good system: plastic is collected in every municipality. Residents are in on it. The plastic is piling up, but of course there has to be a market for it. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State which way she wants to go. Is it a question of market forces, of supply and demand, and ensuring that enough producers use the plastic as a secondary raw material? Or does she want to enforce it by means of legislation? We are not so creative, but it is one European market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u24	You always need an intelligent mix of instruments. This includes supporting as many business initiatives as possible and we do so as well as encouraging you sometimes where you can. If there is no need for legislation, I would prefer not to, because that is a cumbersome route. If you do come up with legislation, which sometimes makes sense, then rather at European level, especially when it comes to the internal market. This applies, for example, to an idea such as the recycling rate. The Netherlands is in favour of this, but it should be regulated at European level so that the playing field is equal for all parties. I think and hope that I will find Mr Dijkstra by my side again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u25	To what extent can we see the effect of all those environmentally conscious people who are now collecting beverages cartons and plastic........................................................................................................................................................................ If the producers pay so much, then municipalities should actually give that back as a reward to the citizens who make this collection possible. How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-5.u26	That is what Mr Dijkstra knows. I think his party's pretty good at all these councils. So I would say: do your best!
