ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I would like to stress the two-minute speaking time per person, including the tabling of any motions. Since this subject had to be messed up on the agenda, I ask Members to keep any interruptions short and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We had a passionate debate yesterday on the infamous TTIP and CETA trade agreements. Resistance is growing not only from society but also from governments, for example in Germany and France. That's why I'm filing the next motion on TTIP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation calls for a "reset" of the free trade negotiations as they should become much "opener, more transparent and more democratic";]] [[also noted that the German Vice-Chancellor Gabriel stated that the negotiations on TTIP had failed and that the French Secretary of State Fekl wanted to stop the negotiations on TTIP;]] [[believes that further negotiations are increasingly moving away from pulling a dead horse;]] [[calls on the Government, in Brussels, to call for the cessation of negotiations on TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1656]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	The second part of the debate concerned the so-called provisional application of the CETA Convention with Canada. This is highly controversial, because it transcends national democracy. We shouldn't have that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the "preliminary application" of the CETA Convention with Canada means that national democracy is passed because it is (partly) introduced before the Member States have given their consent;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to provisional application of CETA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1657]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. My group will vote in favour of Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion. We would also like to table two motions. The first one is about CETA, the treaty with Canada. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the provisional entry into force of the EU-Canada Trade Agreement (CETA) has far-reaching implications, particularly for a number of sectors;]] [[considers that there is no provisional entry into force of CETA prior to ratification;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude from provisional entry into force, at least the chapters on agriculture, energy, investment and regulatory cooperation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1658]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	On another free trade agreement, TiSA, which deals with services, we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission is negotiating TiSA, a free trade agreement on services, seeking to reach an agreement by the end of the year;]] [[Recalling the growing opposition to free trade agreements at the expense of national and European standards and democracy;]] [[Recalling the dispute between the European Commission and the Member States as to whether the European Commission may decide independently on such far-reaching trade agreements, or whether they should be ratified by the Member States;]] [[Calls on the Government, during the informal Trade Council, to press for a suspension of negotiations on TiSA, at least until a ruling of the European Court (expected to be in March 2017) on the division of competences in trade agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1659]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	I think that is a good change. By the way, I think they all speak English...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	Yes, but here we speak Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	...but now it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	Chairman! Unfortunately, yesterday I could not be at the AO RBZ/Trade to talk about my favourite subject, namely trade agreements, because of a conflicting debate that took place in this Chamber. I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to my colleague Michiel Servaes, who has done an excellent job of honour. The Minister said to look very seriously at the concerns of, among others, the FNV. These concerns are very much at the heart of the PvdA. The FNV expressed these concerns in a letter dated 12 September, which also invited the social partners to discuss them. The PvdA looks forward to the results of the talks with the FNV and also to the efforts of the Minister to apply CETA for the time being. The concerns expressed in the letter and the results of the consultations requested must be taken into account. We would like the Minister to bring it to the informal Council. The PvdA assumes that the Minister will inform the Chamber of both the discussions and developments in the informal Council and that it will do so before taking a final position on the provisional application of CETA during the subsequent formal Council. It is a bit of a procedural story and the Minister is doing a great job, but we have to keep an eye on it. We have confidence in the outcome of the talks. With regard to the way in which the Minister has dealt with the trade agreements and the many innovations she has made in the field of trade agreements in recent years, I would like to say once again that the PvdA Group has been extremely pleased with this. The Minister has done something really special. I think that is worth a compliment, and that is why I am repeating it again. Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that the instrument of the motion, which is already being used too much by this party, will not be used today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	I see Mr Van Dijk of the SP at the microphone, and that is why you have to go back a little bit, Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Servaes did indeed say loud and clear yesterday: the demands, as expressed in the letter from the FNV, are hard points for us. What happens to the position of the Labour Party on the CETA Convention if those requirements are not met?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	The position of the Labour Party has been expressed many times to Mr Van Dijk and that position will not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr President, what do you think of this answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'm ahead neutral. If you have any further questions, you can ask them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	I would like an answer from Mr Vos to the question. He has never said to me at all what his position is on CETA if the requirements of the FNV are not met. So please be crystal clear: what does CETA's PvdA think if the requirements of the FNV are not met?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u16	To put it in SP language: if the social and environmental standards and other harsh demands of the Labour Party in the field of CETA are not met, then we will not agree to provisional application nor to final application of the Convention! Does it sound like Mr Van Dijk would like to hear it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u17	You can take the barricades. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u18	We said we'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Vos keeps going around it. Give me a straight answer! I see Mr Vos shaking his head, but that is wrong because he makes environmental and social standards and this and that. The requirements of the FNV are clearly expressed in its letter. The Minister promised yesterday she'd go out with that. If those requirements are not met, the logical consequence would be that the PvdA does not agree with CETA. Is that right or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u20	Workers' rights exist in this country thanks to the Labour Party! These workers' rights are very important to us. That is why we are on the barricades, and that means that we take very seriously the demands made by the FNV in its letter and that we will all consider these demands and the other demands in the social and environmental fields, the sustainability and the climate problem in our final position. If these requirements are not adequately met, we will not agree to this trade agreement. Unlike the SP, I'm not from the red tomato and I'm not against everything either. The country where Prime Minister Trudeau currently rules, Canada, has a long history of cooperation with the Netherlands. We need to continue this cooperation, because with cooperation, Mr Van Dijk, you can achieve more than by being opposed to everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u21	Those last words by Mr Vos sound like music to me. He should leave that red tomato at home, because not only workers but also employers have rights in this country. Mr Vos missed the debate yesterday for justified reasons. I understand all that, because you can't be everywhere at once. Of course, it's important that you follow everything. I was a little surprised yesterday about the position of the Labour Party. I did not want to bother Mr Servaes about this, because he fell in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u22	This does not sound like a brief interruption, but proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u23	If you'll let me finish my question, it'll be a little shorter. We have received an ESC opinion, which the cabinet has supported. The VVD took some effort, but we also shaved behind it. The FNV is in the SER and the SER has given a positive-critical advice on TTIP. You can actually transfer that advice to CETA, because of course the seven demands the FNV makes to TTIP also wants to make to CETA. Mr Vos and I have worked together on this dossier and that has led to a good motion, but now he is going to renegotiate a little bit. The Minister didn't really like that yesterday either, but I'm sure she'll reflect on this immediately. But why doesn't Mr Vos take this positive-critical advice from the ESC as a starting point? That is what the trade union movement's desires are all about. Why do we have to get back on top now, Mr. Fox?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u24	In the ESC employees and employers are united, and in this coalition the Labour Party and the VVD are united. In the Labour Party, a left wing and a more liberal right wing are united. The beauty of our country is that all these different sounds can be addressed in the debates and that we will then move towards a common goal, and that is: more economic growth, but in such a way that the rights of our workers are guaranteed, that we do not undermine the beautiful environment and the clean air that we have in our country, and that, of course, we will also retain in the future what we have worked so hard with each other for all this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u25	That also sounds like music to me, but I still ask a follow-up question. Also in the VVD you have left and right wings. You belong to the left wing of the Labour Party, Mr Vos, and I belong to the right wing of the VVD. I thought we'd been working together just as well all this time. Actually, it went pretty well. But now, when you separate the market, you're going to hear a little bit of that left-wing action sound. Work well together now! Unemployment is falling by 60 000 a month at the moment because of the government's commitment. 60,000 a month go off. That means more employment, and that process should not be slowed down. So don't do that, Mr. Fox, is my call. Keep working together, look outside, look across the sea, look across the dunes at the sea and look abroad. Shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u26	Unemployment has fallen further, according to today's figures. 50-plussers in particular now appear to be getting to work faster. Thanks to this cabinet, where right and left wings are united. There's something else I'd like to tell you. You say I belong to the left wing, but that is a matter of perspective. It is also good to realise that there are different perspectives. I can guarantee that my party chairman, Hans Spekman, always says that I am in the far right wing of the Labour Party, while the VVD colleagues think I am on the left. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you very much for this interesting insight. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr. Chairman. With me, the question remains whether I have really learned about the position of the PvdA and Mr Jan Vos in there. First of all, I would like to express my sincere support for the motion tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk concerning the provisional entry into force. I also have a motion for a resolution which goes one step further. That's the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that CETA contains undesirable elements;]] [[Whereas cooperation between the EU and Canada deserves a better treaty with binding agreements on the environment and labour;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the signature of CETA within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1660]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u29	Then I'm gonna make a call. I had tabled a motion on 7 June this year, the operative part of which was: 'calls on the government to urge the Council not to apply the ICS provisionally'. That motion was then held at the Minister's request. I shall therefore put that motion to the vote. I think this is a good time. It's also logged in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u30	As soon as we find it, I'll pass on the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u31	I have the number for you here: 31985, No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u33	Finally, Mr President, we would like to ask the Minister if she could, in a letter to the Chamber, comment on the negotiations on TiSA, the Trade in Services Agreement, the state of play and the negotiation of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u34	In a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u35	Yes, I asked: in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u36	Excuse me, two things happened at once. You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u37	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you very much. Then I can give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is complete clarity as to whether and how parts of agriculture are structurally and purposefully compensated for the disadvantages they suffer from the introduction of CETA and whether there is sufficient support for this before the ratification debate is held,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Bruins, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Thieme.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1661]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u40	The Minister has already made a commitment to come forward with a letter before the legislative proposal is dealt with. We thought it would be a good idea to give some coloring to that. It was a short debate and the time was up at some point. If the Minister accepts her, I agree with her, but there are a number of key words that are important to us: complete clarity, structural and targeted compensation, sufficient support. We do not believe that there should be a letter that is vague and offers all kinds of promises towards the future. We must then decide whether to support CETA or not. For us, then, it is crucial that the problem of parts of agriculture that are going to be affected by it, because they are going to compete with countries where environmental and animal welfare requirements are lower, is actually tackled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u41	Let me take a critical look at Mr Grashoff. Is this about an explanation of the motion? We are not going to repeat the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr Dijkgraaf talks about structural compensation. That's what he should be saying to me for a while. Does that mean that we are going to give additional structural income support to pig and chicken farmers? This seems to me to be a very special figure, which, in my view, is also contrary to European law. I wonder if it is a viable map at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u43	The form of structural compensation that I would prefer to see is that we set up the market model in such a way that the primary producers are simply compensated by the market price for the investments they have to make. The motion does not focus on an individual instrument for a second. I'm very curious how the government sees that. If we do CETA, we will have a structural problem, because our farmers have higher environmental and animal welfare requirements than farmers in Canada. That is a structural problem. That has to be solved, preferably through the market. That we can reduce subsidies and increase the price so that farmers can simply earn back their investments is the structural solution that I prefer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u44	Does this also include structural compensation, in Mr Dijkgraaf's view, the structural reduction of environmental and animal welfare standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u45	No, absolutely not. I think that we should invest in sustainability and animal welfare. They are beyond question to me. That's one of the big risks. The problem is that we or the farmers are burdened with too low a price, which means that they cannot earn income, or that environmental and animal welfare requirements should be reduced here. And that's not what we want with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr Dijkgraaf continues or rounds off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr Dijkgraaf is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the parliamentary term. I understand that the Minister can answer immediately or at least wants to answer. I would now like to give her the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Chairman. I'll check the motions. I shall dwell in particular on the last motion for a resolution, because it deserves it. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 1656 calls on the government to call for the cessation of negotiations. I'm gonna dissuade them. We have a meeting in Bratislava in 10 days to hear from the Commission how it looks at the progress of the negotiations. The ball is with the Americans. They have to make concessions. If they don't, suspension will come closer. That's what I said yesterday. But I would first like to hear the Commissioner's report, because of course she is working very hard on it. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 1657 asks the Government not to agree to the provisional application of CETA. I'm gonna dissuade them, too. It is also, of course, completely nonsense that the House of Representatives cannot give its opinion on this. We talked about it yesterday. We're talking about it today. The Chamber shall vote on motions. After the informal Council, there will be another AO on the commitment to the formal Council. Then we'll talk about it again. Then there'll be motions again. After that, the European Parliament will also express its opinion. I think we have debated this 25 times now. That's what needs to be done. But the suggestion that our House of Representatives cannot take a position on provisional entry is simply wrong, because we are talking about it now. That maybe we don't agree, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u50	I wonder who the minister is addressing. It is obvious that we often talk about this subject, TTIP and CETA, which is very good. That's democracy. But my motion concerns the fundamental point that I am putting forward that I do not agree with the phenomenon of the provisional application of a trade agreement. That is the phenomenon that a treaty is introduced before the Member States, in this case the parliaments, have agreed to it. We debate it very often, but the agreement comes later than the introduction. I find that in principle the wrong order; hence the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u51	That is what Mr Van Dijk can say. He also mentioned the lack of parliamentary control. That's not true. The report is public, it can be read for everyone. Mr Van Dijk can vote against provisional application. I'd advise against that. It is a good treaty for the Netherlands, it is good if our flower exporters can benefit from it and the same goes for our consumers. That is why this provisional entry into force is so important. I'm just dissuading the motion. But I would like to respond to the way in which the Chamber is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u52	I understand you dissuade the motion. Mr Van Dijk: very briefly, at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u53	If approval of the Treaty by national parliaments had been a formality, we could have discussed it. But this is not the case with these highly controversial agreements, TTIP and CETA. The debate is very lively, not only in society, but also at government level in the Member States. It would be a good thing for you as a democrat to say: dear people, I see that these treaties are so under discussion, at least we are not going to introduce the treaty for the time being through the back door, we are waiting for the agreement of the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u54	I can repeat what I said, but I won't. We're talking about it now. The report can be read by everyone. The government believes it is a good treaty for the Netherlands. That is why the provisional entry into force is also good for the Netherlands, with a number of exceptions, but I will say a little more about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u55	Third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u56	I shall now proceed to the motion for a resolution on part No. 1658 by Mr Thieme and Mr Bruins. I am still surprised these days that I see the Party for Animals sitting in the same bench together with the advocates of intensive livestock farming. I don't recommend the motion. We're about to talk about the impact on different sectors. We do not want to exclude the chapters on agriculture, energy and regulatory cooperation. We'll talk about excluding ICS. But I do not share the assumption in the motion that CETA has far-reaching consequences for a number of sectors, because otherwise the Netherlands would not have qualified the treaty so positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u57	I have no idea what the Minister is talking about here. I'd like to defend the bio-industry here. I stand with Mr Bruins and Mr Dijkgraaf in calling for the protection of our farmers, whom we want them to produce better and undertake socially responsible work. These farmers are now threatened by products coming to Europe that do not meet our standards. The Minister should agree with us. Together with farmers and consumers who want safe and animal-friendly food, this kind of free trade agreements must be fought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u58	I do not agree with that at all. We have seen that intensive livestock farming in particular can have potentially adverse effects because quotas are introduced into the Convention. The other sectors are either excluded, or they will benefit, in the good sense of the word, from CETA. The government also insists that Canadian exports must also comply with EU food safety requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u59	This is really going to be a repeat of what happened yesterday...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u61	I'll finish my sentence, if you don't mind. We're gonna be in a bit of a repeat of moves. I would ask you not to repeat yesterday's discussion. If you have something that was not discussed yesterday, I would like to give you a brief opportunity to bring it forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u62	This wasn't discussed yesterday. Am I to understand that the Minister says that I should be in favour of CETA, because it would be detrimental to the bio-industry? That's a strange line of reasoning. The problem is that there is a response from the Minister to the question that if we get free trade agreements such as CETA, the Netherlands and other European countries will no longer be able to demand higher standards from farmers, because the farmers will say: we cannot, because then we will be out of competition by the companies from Canada or America. That's the big problem. This free trade agreement is blocking better, higher standards. I have heard Mrs Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade, many times say that she thinks that we should deal better with animals and with our environment. I therefore consider this to be an entirely unclear argument on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u63	Of course, I am not writing to Mrs Thieme what she needs to find. That's up to her. I note, however, that the sectors we discussed yesterday in particular concern intensive livestock farming. That's where we have defensive interests. That is why the EU has chosen to agree with Canada that there will be a quota so that that market will slowly open up. Mrs Thieme's impact on these sectors will not take place in this way. We have always said that we will stick to our demands, and we keep saying that. But we also need to be fair. It is possible that these two sectors within the whole area of the agricultural sector may be affected. A motion has also been tabled on this subject, and I shall say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr Dijkgraaf, you would like to ask a question about the Minister's opinion on a motion from others? That's possible, but I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be very brief. The picture that is now emerging, namely that it is to protect intensive livestock farming, is not correct. It is precisely to protect the improvement of animal welfare and the environment. It is not just about intensive livestock farming. It's bothering the whole farm. It's bothering the chickens and it's bothering the pigs. Every time, it's about protecting improvements. A concrete example is that pigs are kept in groups in a way that pigs like. You can't do that in Canada, or that's not happening in Canada, but here you are. So it's always about improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u66	We are not going to repeat yesterday's debate, but I would like to say that chicken meat, eggs and turkey meat are excluded, because they are such sensitive sectors in the Netherlands. So they're not in the treaty. The motion in part No. 1659 also belongs to Mrs Thieme. In the light of our keen debates today and yesterday, I would very much have liked to take over this motion, but I am not going to do so. I will give an explanation of this, which may reassure her. The Netherlands sees TiSA as a good agreement for the Dutch service economy. We foresee that TiSA's signature will most likely take place only after the judgment in the Singapore case. Mrs Thieme's concerns about how that relates to TiSA therefore probably do not need to be raised. I would advise against the motion, but I will immediately tell Mr Grashoff that I will write a letter, perhaps as part of the report on TiSA, which contains all the information. Then I will also, as I say to Mrs Thieme, deal specifically with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u67	You said "maybe in the report." Shall we just make that clear: in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yeah, I'm fine. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1660 by Mr Grashoff, inviting the government to oppose the signing of CETA. I advise against this motion. CETA contains good agreements; we are still doing further research and we are still committed to making a number of more precise arrests in that report. Then I come to the motion tabled by Mr Grashoff in the debate on 7 June on no provisional application of ICS in CETA (31985, No. 36). I'd like to take over that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u69	Pursuant to Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, this is possible provided that none of the Members present objects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u70	The VVD Group would like to vote on that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u71	You're objecting. So the motion simply comes to the vote and so the Minister gives a ruling on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u72	I see her as support for policy, as it is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u73	And that's called...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u74	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u75	It's called Judgment Room. We're just playing by the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u76	Then the motion to part No. 1661. I understand Mr Dijkgraaf's wish to reiterate yesterday's commitment. However, this motion does not help in this respect, since it states that there must be "very clear" clarity. There is no such thing as clarity in this domain. An impact study from the European Commission will be launched in the autumn. In agriculture, of course, other events such as 'events, my dear boy, events' affect exchange rates and market fluctuations on the world market. So I just can't give you any clarity. Structural compensation is also really a bridge too far. I said a number of things yesterday and I would very much like to give a letter to Mr Dijkgraaf and his friends, whose names are under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u77	And girlfriend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u78	Excuse me, yes. I will certainly write that letter, but I would also like to go into it in a way that, together with the sector, not only keeps a finger on the wrist but carefully monitors what happens after the Treaty has entered into force provisionally or definitively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u79	And what is your specific assessment of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u80	I have to dissuade her. It matters to me, because I share the intention. Only in this form is it really not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u81	Then I will respond to the Minister by deleting the word "extremely." It is true that there is no such thing as clarity in this world. Then there will be "clearness" and I will meet the Minister somewhat. We'll have a structural problem. I assume that the letter also indicates to what extent timing is important, what can and cannot be done. It does not say that compensation must be provided separately, because it says "or." So the minister can go either way. It indicates the elements to be included in the letter. The Minister can then choose which way she wants to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u82	I see that we have reached the stage of praise and bidding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thanks to Mr Dijkgraaf, but I still have one problem: the time mark. He says that it must all be clear before ratification. I admit that I would like to give maximum insight on the basis of the data available and the effects that could be attributed to the introduction of CETA. Again, there is a whole domain around it. If Mr Dijkgraaf would like to apply the flexibility he has just exercised in that other sense, then he would allow me to take over that motion. In this form, I just can't keep up with her, and I would hate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u84	There's no way we're all rewriting a motion here. The Minister therefore advises against the motion in part No. 1661 as it is now. Mr Dijkgraaf is free to table an amended motion if necessary. I'm assuming he's got something in mind which direction the Minister would like to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u85	Yes, but this is an important point, because for us it is crucial that there is real clarity at the time when we are discussing ratification here. I'm afraid there'll be a letter saying: we'll talk sometime and we'll see where the ship is stranded. I'd like to avoid that with this motion. Otherwise the motion would be superfluous, because then the Minister's commitment would be met. That is why this point is very explicit in the motion. I'm not gonna change that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u86	Then may I make another suggestion? I do not wish to alienate Mr Dijkgraaf from me. If he continues the motion and waits for the letter in which I set out a number of lines on what impact we expect, how we can monitor it, what the uncertain factors are and what conversations I can make, then he can always think on the basis of that letter if he...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u87	The question is clear. Mr Dijkgraaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u88	I do not think that is wise, because this motion contains elements which should be addressed in that letter. The motion is intended to explain the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u89	Okay, the motion in part No. 1661 with that crucial point, as it is now, will be put to the vote this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u90	Well, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u91	The Minister's advice is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u92	No matter what amended motion comes and what is still under discussion between the SGP Group and the Minister, the VVD wants this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-5.u93	It's gonna happen anyway. I propose that today, so today, we vote on these motions.
