ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Every Monday and Friday I visit youth care institutions and I speak to a lot of young people. So is Patrick. He told me that at the age of three, "our mom" couldn't take care of him and his little brother. He's made a tough start. He grew up in youth care institutions and was well received there but at the age of 18 he was back on the street. Patrick then missed the help for housing, for school and for work. He didn't get the support he needed from home as a young adult to look forward to a good future either. He ended up in a benefit situation. Unfortunately, he's not the only one. Yesterday, the AD headlined "After childhood care often awaits benefits." The head concluded that 80% of the Wajangers received youth care and 40% of the beneficiaries and 90% of the AWBZ users received youth care. In short, users of social or health care services very often have a youth background. The research makes clear how important the shift from youth care to the municipality is for this vulnerable group of people who we want to provide care, future and perspective and the ability to stand on their own feet, the chance of an independent and a pleasant life, organized close by, despite their difficult start. This headline in the AD raises the following questions to the cabinet. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the cabinet is going to do to encourage municipalities to look at the future of young people in the youth care sector as widely as possible at the earliest possible time? It is precisely those young people who need extra support. There are huge opportunities in the field of education and the labour market, because the municipality also deals with the Wmo, the Participation Act and youth care. What opportunities does the Secretary of State see for this? My second question is: how can we learn from practical education that actively mediates students towards internship and work and then follows another five years in the follow-up process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the Central Planning Bureau has issued a report which shows everything that Mrs Ypma has just put forward. The Central Planning Office calls the decentralisation of legislation, which Mrs Ypma mentioned just now, a blessing because municipalities are now much better at building things together than they used to be. Mrs Ypma says it would be good if there were a warm transfer between education and the labour market. The cabinet also underlines that. So both my colleague of concern and myself are looking closely at that. Within the labour market regions, we are already seeing wonderful examples of this warm transfer. From special education and practical education, you can already see that children can start to work on that labour market one-on-one from their internship site. Much remains to be done, however. I'd like to underline that. Tomorrow I will have another meeting with the 35 aldermen from the 35 labour market regions. Then I will not be under any illusions that this warm transfer is already going very well in some regions, but that in other regions there is still room for improvement and that we really need to learn from each other. It is then important that practical education, as in the case of special education, is used to ensure that children enter the target population register so that they can get out of work with a guarantee job when they enter the labour market. I know that there is also a plea from the PvdA that, like special education, the practical education linea recta should use that register. I gotta say, I'm up for that, too. So we will follow up on that, I imagine. One more thing. I was in the Rotterdam region yesterday. There I have seen a wonderful example of children who are in practical education and who are already receiving their education from an employer at the age of 16, i.e. in the workplace. If they leave school at the age of 18, they can stay with that employer. If we can spread these kinds of examples widely, that's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'm very pleased with the answer I'm getting from the Secretary of State. I think this group of young people really deserves that. They have already made a difficult start and want to have a perspective on a bright future. If you can't get that extra back support out of the house, there's really someone else you can offer it to. The municipalities now have a huge opportunity, because they do not need to see the age of 18 as a deadline. After all, they are also about the Wmo and the Participation Act and thus have this target group longer in house. I sincerely hope that all the efforts of our Secretary of State will lead to a better future for these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	There was no further question in Mrs Ypma's speech, President. So I think the answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	But Mrs Karabulut does have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	The study of the Central Planning Office does not really tell us what is going on with our young people at the moment. The transition, as it is called, so the fact that municipalities have to do more certainly offers opportunities. However, there are also problems, for example that a very large group of young people who are now entitled to a benefit, who are no longer receiving it. Many young people also lose the right to care after their 18th. Specifically, is the Secretary of State prepared to give every young person the right to a job coach? That's a coach who's been escorting young people to the later job since the internship. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to continue the youth care system, which now stops after the 18th birthday, so that we can really help young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	From my own wallet I can answer the first question perfectly. As far as youth services are concerned, I must refer to my colleague for care. At 18 years, youth care is indeed being reduced. That is the case now. We were just talking about the fact that municipalities, because of the leadership of the decentralisations, can also offer good tailor-made work around a young person. That is also the answer to the first question, namely whether anyone can get a job coach. It is, of course, important that municipalities look very closely at what is needed in the warm transfer. That's not just guidance, so a job coach, but can be anything. Essentially, the municipality offers every time the customization that a younger state should be able to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think Mrs Karabulut had another question about age. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yeah, I answered that. That is indeed the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would like to point out that young people are of course not sandwiches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	May I respond to that, Mr. Chairman? Of course, young people are not sandwiches and that is how no one treats them, especially the municipalities. The municipality is really busy to offer young people a perspective, both from education and from health care as well as from the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	This was about a study among young people who turned 18 in 2011. Does this research not show how necessary the decentralisations were in all these areas, i.e. appropriate education, youth aid, AWBZ and Participation Act? Doesn't it show how much better it could get? We must have a little faith and also give the municipalities the confidence to do better than we did when it was still a state policy. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	I did not say for nothing that in this report the Central Planning Office underlined that the decentralisations are a blessing, because you can indeed tie all these issues together around one child, around one young person. You can see in practice that this is happening more and more. Of course, there are always starting points of attention, but it is indeed very pleasant that the decentralisations are now on the agenda. Mrs Van der Burg has a point. This was really based on 2011 and we are now living in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
