ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	It's a special meeting today. We will elect a new President together today. There is also a special procedure for this meeting. It seemed clear to me to go over it with you. I'll ask the candidates to come forward in a moment. We will then have a debate with each other. They will also be suspended in order to give candidates the opportunity to prepare themselves. Then there's another suspension, and then we're gonna vote. If you need a suspension at any time, please let the Registry know as soon as possible. Then we can take that into account. The next item is the debate with the candidates for office of President of the House of Representatives. There have been no less than four candidates. I invite Members Elias, Bosma, Van Toorenburg and Arib to take their seats in Box K. You're all welcome to ruffle for that, because all the candidates are going to do their best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Fifteen speakers from the Chamber have come forward. After the first term of office, I shall briefly suspend the candidates to answer the questions. With so many speakers, I can imagine that we need around half an hour to do so, but we will look at how things are going and what the candidates need. Then I will let fate decide who will be the first to take the floor to answer the questions raised by the speakers. You can also interrupt each other in the first term. You may remember from the last time that is not very common, but it is your debate, so you can interrupt. If you do that, I will allow interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. On 12 December 2015, Ms Van Miltenburg resigned as President of the House of Representatives. We in the House of Representatives are selecting one of us today to take over the Presidency. He or she becomes the 72nd President of the Second Chamber of the States-General and is in a long tradition of democratic control of central government. The President of the Chamber has an influence on the extent to which the Lower House is able to control the cabinet. He or she is responsible for ensuring that the Chambers' organisation supports the members of the Chambers and allows members of the Chambers to direct the administration. Finally, the President of the Chamber has an influence on the image that people get from Dutch politics and from Dutch democracy. The most visible task of the President of the Chamber is to lead the debate in plenary, but the President of the Chamber also has other important tasks, which are certainly as urgent and which must also be properly carried out, namely the representation of the Chamber at home and abroad, the leadership of the Chamber's official support, the monitoring of the agenda and the planning of debates and the enthusiasm of the public for parliamentary democracy. The Presidency of the House of Representatives, like the Parliamentary Committee itself, is an honorable craftsmanship. The President can make a substantial contribution to strengthening, improving and renewing the democratic foundations of the Netherlands. The President conveys the democratic values that are dear to us all. GroenLinks places high demands on the forthcoming Presidency. After all, the President is waiting for a number of very sensitive dossiers, one of which is to manage the forthcoming move and conversion of Parliament. GroenLinks also expects the new President of the Chamber to pay attention to the sustainability of housing and business management. According to GroenLinks, the President must guarantee the quality of the political debate. In a democracy, the majority decides, but not after all the arguments and views have been carefully considered and minority interests have been taken into account in the decision as far as possible. In short: in the eyes of GroenLinks, politics is mainly a conversation in which you offer the opportunity and you show your willingness to be convinced by someone else. In our view, the President-in-Office should guard that. He or she must therefore also monitor whether questions are answered and whether directors have answered questions. That is a question of gaining authority and understanding of what is necessary for a good debate. My first question to the candidates is therefore how they intend to contribute to the current debate culture in the Chamber. The President shall have independent powers to do so. How do these four candidates propose to apply these sometimes very far-reaching powers? Article 50 of the Constitution states that the States-General represent the entire Dutch people. The President of the House of Representatives plays a crucial role in this. I wonder what form the candidates want to give to this. How, for example, are candidates going to help bridge the supposed gap between public and political? How is the incoming Presidency going to contribute to the European Union to speak with Mr Job Cohen 'keep things together'? What ideas do the candidates have to further increase the accessibility of the House of Representatives? How is it ensured that other interested parties visit the Chamber, visit the website or otherwise take note of what is being discussed here? Monitoring the agenda and its planning is an important task for the President of the Chamber. At the moment, it was recalled yesterday, there are over 100 debates on the role. A few weeks later, there are requests for debate. A lot of oral questions are also notified every week. What is happening and when is happening is not always as clear for every Member of Parliament. How do these candidates view this? How can efficient and optimal use be made of our plenary session? In recent years it has also often been about how parliamentarians qualified each other and also their crafts. GroenLinks is in a tradition in which the free word is restrained only with extreme restraint. Do the candidates feel the dilemmas of parliamentary freedom of expression and its limits? If so, how do they intend to cope with that? An important task of the House of Representatives is to control "the" power. Information law is one of our most important instruments. How do the candidates see the operationalisation of this instrument and how do the candidates see the role of the opposition in the parliamentary process? Bismarck would have said that laws are like sausages, which you better not see how they're made. Minister Donner gave it to him. How do the candidates intend to strengthen the transparency of the parliamentary process? During the previous election of the President of the Chamber, the candidates then expressed all sorts of interesting ideas, ranging from the use of social media in controversial debates, digitisation of roll-call votes to a motion tracking system. How are the candidates looking at that now? It is a relatively short period, but what could we charge the new President of the Chamber for? Last, but not least: the House of Representatives consists of more and more small and medium-sized groups, each contributing in their own way to democratic decision-making. Decisions are taken not only by the pardon of the majority of the House, as I said earlier. Democracy is also respect for minority interests. GroenLinks believes it is important that the control tools can also be activated by minorities, as it is also important that small groups share control and hold in the way in which the Lower House governs itself. How do the candidates assess the way in which the Bureau, and thus the Rules of Procedure, serve the interests of small groups? Where do they see opportunities to increase the transparency and/or involvement of these groups? I still have a few specific questions for the candidates. I'll walk them off in random order. This isn't fate-determined. I ask Mr Van Toorenburg: how do you look at the differences between leading a parliamentary inquiry and presiding over the House of Representatives? You write that you do not advocate any major and compelling changes. Can you explain that a little more precisely? Are there any actions that you would like to take with regard to the Chamber of Representatives? What initiatives do you consider necessary to further strengthen official support for the political process? Finally, I wonder how you would like to strengthen the power of the Chamber against the cabinet. To the member Arib. What are the dos-and-donts that your fellow candidates would like to pass on from your experience with the Presidency? How do you look back at the way in which the Chamber has set its agenda in recent times and what would you like to change in that regard? You have indicated not to tolerate the qualification of fake parliament. Where are the limits of the permissible levels for you? To the member Elias. The way in which the Chamber operates does not always meet the challenges faced by small groups to exercise their co-controlling and co-legislative powers. Do you recognize this problem? If so, what are you going to do to meet small groups? You say that the President of the Chamber has three priorities: to preside, to preside and to preside. Can we see from this that you give less priority to the other tasks in the President's package? To the member Bosma. I hope you know GroenLinks as a defender of the free word. Much must be said, certainly in plenary, but we do expect the President of the Chamber to give his or her opinion if the debate disqualifies Parliament, Members of the Chamber or entire sections of the population. Do you manage to become a connecting president, in which everyone in Dutch society can recognize themselves? Finally. This is a very special debate, as you said at the opening of the sitting. It is certainly a special debate for the four colleagues who are actually doing a public job interview here. I hope and assume that we will have a good and dignified debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you very much and let me certainly share your last wish with you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV. For the candidates: let us assume that, unless a question is specifically asked to one of you, all the questions asked are simply for all candidates, even if that is not specifically said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are faced with the choice of who we will be in charge of this Parliament in the near future. The PVV Group thanks the candidates for their willingness to take that lead. First of all, my group attaches great importance to the fact that any chairman can operate impartially and thus be above the parties. In particular, I would like to ask Mrs Arib if she is capable of doing so, because she has once stated in an interview that she will go straight to Morocco when the PVV or my colleague Wilders comes to power. Is it possible to operate impartially if you so actively express your dislike of a party or of a fellow parliamentarians? Please clarify this. I also want to talk about freedom of speech. It must not be undermined in our democracy or in this Parliament. For example, my group has the freedom to use the word fake parliament. If you see how badly the opinion of the Dutch people is represented here in important areas such as asylum, Islam and the EU, then the term fake parliament is certainly appropriate here. I would like to ask the four candidates if freedom of speech is in their good hands. The latter does not seem to be the case with Mrs Arib either. It has indicated in a television interview that it will not accept the word fake parliament. I would like to know what provision it intends to keep this word or other terms that may not be appropriate to it outside the debate. On what grounds exactly does Mrs Arib want to restrict freedom of expression and why? What criteria does it intend to introduce and apply? We have also been dealing for a long time with the situation that a government party, the Labour Party, considers it necessary to apply a PVV boycott. This boycott means, for example, that all the motions tabled by my group disappear into the trash. This totally ignores the opinion of the many Dutch people who represent my group. Once again, they don't even look at it. That is a very special and unique situation, and the candidate presidents should have an opinion on this. So I would like to hear from the candidates whether they find the boycott to fit in with a well-functioning parliament or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	You have every right to ask the candidates and ask them to respond, but of course the Labour Party is not sitting on the bench as a candidate. You may ask the candidates to respond, but that will not be in relation to a party that cannot defend itself. If you want to do it that way, I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	I also put the question to the President-in-Office because they should have an opinion on this. For the PVV it remains indigestible that a political office can be held in our country by persons who hold a dual nationality. They must comply not only with the Dutch law, but also with the law of the other country of which they are nationals. In the case of Mrs Arib, that is Moroccan law. Because Moroccan law is of course not the same as Dutch law, there are two different conflicting packages of rights and obligations. In an interview, Mrs Arib has literally said that sometimes she has to succumb to the Moroccan system. In that interview, she indicated that she didn't want to get married, but she did because of that Moroccan law, otherwise she would have a prison sentence of three months over her head. In doing so, Mrs Arib herself stated that she cannot operate independently. It is bound by the Moroccan law which simply violates Dutch freedoms. The PVV does not want a chairman who is also Moroccan. No one should want to. We only have Dutch law to obey here, not the rules of an Islamic desert culture or any other country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr Fritsma, may I ask you to confine your comments to the questions you would like to ask the candidates and not to address those who cannot debate them at the moment? This applies both to parties sitting in the Chamber as a whole and to other countries. Mrs. Kuik wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	Unfortunately, I knew I'd have to stand here. We saw this three years ago in another debate. It would adorn Mr Fritsma if he complied with the Constitution. For the Constitution, everyone is equal and we judge people on the basis of who they are and their qualities, not on the basis of where they come from. I am sure he is not going to do that, but I would ask him to respect that in this debate, in which we are also talking about a chairman for his party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	However, this point is very relevant. A chairman of this parliament should be independent. That criterion of independence is also in the profile. We all consider this to be very important. How can you be independent if you are bound by the legal system of Morocco in this case? That question is in order. That's why I'm putting it back here. That is why I am making this point again. This remains very important for the PVV Group: the issue of independence. The criterion of independence is not met if you are bound by the legal system of a country other than the Netherlands. Finally, I have two questions for the candidates. The first concerns the Dutch Presidency of the EU. Some government officials have already indicated that because of that presidency they must be in Brussels very often. That is a thorn in the eye of the PVV Group, because we must be able to see the leaders here. Can the candidates promise that they will strictly monitor this? Perhaps the gentlemen and ladies will be able to exercise their European hobbyism in Brussels only on weekends. On working days, they're supposed to be here. The last question is simple and concerns the point that the incoming Presidency is very short in nature and therefore does not seem to offer much room for too ambitious projects. What do the candidates want to change until the next election and what not? Elections that the PVV Group cannot take place quickly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. The position of the chairman of the Lower House is very important. The Animal Party considers it important that this chairman is willing and able to stand above the parties, and to stand up for a strong and functioning parliament. That is very necessary, not only because of ourselves or for ourselves, but also because we are standing here as representatives of the people. On behalf of the citizens of this country, we control the government and decide on laws and how taxpayers' money is spent. And we also submit legislative proposals ourselves, legislative proposals as successive Cabinets leave important issues that do live among the citizens. I would like to thank all the candidates for their willingness to take on this important task of President-in-Office, and thank them for their wonderful letters. I think it is important to hear how they see the role of President in the knowledge that there are discussions about the size of Parliament and the financing of Parliament, in the knowledge that the Netherlands already has one of the smallest parliaments in Europe. I also think it is important, in the knowledge that staff who support MPs are not very numerous, and that there are no large budgets available to do the job well. I think it is important, in the knowledge that it is difficult for the individual parties to tell the story, to make a plea for a well-functioning parliament that includes budget. Do the candidates see it for themselves that they can point out these facts as President? Can they make a plea for at least not giving away the important support in our work of the representative of the people? I would also like to hear from the candidates how they wish to secure the minority's position in the Chamber. I therefore refer to the position of smaller parties in the Chamber and the instruments on which they depend, such as parliamentary questions, motions and 30-member debates. The President spoke yesterday about the large number of debates to be planned. 118 were there at that time, I mean. I would like to point out to the candidates that this large flow of 30-member debates is only a symptom of the way it is done in committees. There the majority does not always allow the minority to hold a committee debate in the form of a general consultation. Can the candidates reflect on that? How do they intend to defend the right of Members of Parliament to table motions? I know that a number of candidates feel that too many motions are always being tabled. Everyone has a right to their own opinion. Everyone except the chairman. In what way do the candidates intend to stand up fully for the right of each individual MP to ask the Chamber for a ruling? The agenda of the plenary is always very full. We have the impression that being full of the agenda is sometimes abused by parties to have a legislative consultation on a legislative proposal rather than a plenary debate. This is to a large extent at the expense of the speaking time of the smaller groups in particular. Especially if a legislative proposal has significant consequences, it deserves a normal, plenary debate, with sufficient time to ask questions and to make motions. Are the candidates in agreement with the Animal Party and, if so, in what way will they, as chairman, work to ensure that Parliament's co-legislative role is properly served? I am also very interested in the views on the embargo regime and the information position of opposition parties. Also this year there was a lot of fuss about it. Mr Van Raak stood at the microphone every day at one point to ask for disclosure of leaked information. We must note that it is impossible for opposition parties to read the Millions note and all the underlying documents in a very short space of time in preparation for a good debate. So we would like to see a President who will ensure that all members of the Chamber, not just members of coalition parties and friends of opposition parties, can get to know all the documents in time so that a good debate can take place. This embargo is one of the most striking examples of this. More generally, it is, of course, about the level and quality of information provision. Do the candidates have a role to play in encouraging directors if this information is not timely or undersized? I come to dualism and the relations in the debate. How do the candidates see that they are dealing with directors who I say a little charged, in a manner of speaking, are speaking for hours without going into the questions asked, let alone formulating an answer? Finally, my group would like to express its appreciation for the work initiated by the previous Presidents of Parliament in order to make Parliament's work more accessible and to ensure that citizens can get what we are doing with it by following debates and reading documents. I trust that the candidates intend to continue along that path. I'd like to hear a reaction to this. This is very important for the Party for Animals. I conclude by wishing all candidates good luck in answering the questions and in the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the previous President of the Chamber for the work she has done over the last three years. Today we are choosing a President from among ourselves. Never is there so much attention to a job application. In the house of democracy everyone now has the opportunity to see who is appointed. That makes it seem like today we are performing a show that can be on the tube at RTL. "Holland's Next Chamber Chairman" would have called it John de Mol. Who's the best president in the country? Who is going to represent our Parliament to foreign delegations for a year? Who is going to ensure that debates are managed properly? Are we actually choosing the best President today or is our choice politically determined? We at DENK would like to express our appreciation for all four candidate presidents. Whatever political differences we may have between us, you can do for the presidency requires boldness and great commitment to our parliamentary democracy. The position of President of the Chamber has also been described by some as the highest office of the State. He or she is the ambassador of our parliamentary democracy and the protector of the rights of individual representatives of the people. So it is not a frivolous task at all. Since 1815 the Netherlands has had about 70 male Presidents of the Chamber in a row. Mrs Van Nieuwenhoven broke through that tradition in 1998 and became the first female President. That seems to be the beginning of a beautiful tradition, because after that we had two female Presidents of the Chamber, with the exception of Mr Weisglas, Gerdi Verbeet and Anouchka of Miltenburg. We welcome this new tradition, but we hope that it will not end there. The first female Prime Minister, the first female Foreign Minister and the first female Finance Minister are still waiting. Society's changing. The Netherlands is becoming increasingly diverse. It is important for our Parliament to change with it, for there to be more room in the House of Representatives, or at least to listen to the sound of minorities. That is a key point for us in the choice of the new President. The new President must give room to small groups, even if they have been created by a split-off. In the past, we have experienced that this did not happen in the right way. However, democracy becomes stronger and bigger when small parties are given more space. The core of democracy is that you stand up for the sound of minorities. The majority decides, but only if all minorities have been able to make their voices heard. Without wanting to hear the sound of minorities, democracy is nothing but a hollowed-out democracy. I would therefore like to put this question to all four candidates: are you going to ensure that all the noises present in this Parliament can be heard properly? How do you deal with the sound of small fractions? Are you going to treat all MPs individually equally? Do you treat small groups in the same way as large groups, or are you going to use double standards? Another major challenge for the new President is the restoration of confidence in our democracy and in our Parliament. At the end of last year we witnessed the unfolding of one of the most shady chapters in our parliamentary democracy: the Bitch Deal. It wasn't about jobs. It was about shredders. It wasn't about good education. It was about receipts. It wasn't about security. It was about dark deals. This has not done our Parliament, our democratic rule of law and our government any good. That's very unfortunate. It is not for nothing that research has shown time and time again that confidence in politics is dwindling. I ask the candidates to reflect on the issue of citizens' confidence in Parliament. Do they, as President, think they can play a role in regaining citizens' confidence in politics? How can they and will they and will they prevent the reputation of our Parliament from being harmed over and over again? That brings me to the next point. Freedom of speech is a great asset. Let us stress that once again. But is that why everything can be said in this house? Can candidates reflect on the question of where to draw the line between freedom of expression and simply decency? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I shall now put a few brief questions to each candidate and make a few brief comments. I will start with Mr Elias, because he is closest to me. I'm falling into the house with the door, Mr. Elias. Do you think you have sufficient support from the official organisation to realise your grand plans for the change and reorganisation of the House of Representatives? In your application you write that you see the reorganisation of the official organisation as one of the main tasks of the President. But what do you think of the fact that the official organisation is not being heard when the President is elected? Doesn't that strike you as odd? We want to make a point of this. We think it is important that people who are not heard get a voice. That's what we stand for. As far as we are concerned, other candidates can also respond to this question. Mr Elias' letter also states that the debate is beaten to death by informal rules. That is a sentence which I read with satisfaction, but at the same time I thought of a number of exchanges of views which I and a number of other small parties have had with him on whether we should respect the mores of the Chamber. Mr Elias wants to be President. Can he explain to colleagues here what these mores and those informal rules are exactly? How does his statement relate to the fact that small groups who have to respect mores have to comply with the phrase in his own letter on informal rules? My next question is to Mrs Van Toorenburg. During the debate on the 2016 estimate, she made firm statements about Members of Parliament who split off. The split-off of Mr Klein called them "an embarrassment for parliament" and she talked about "seat robbery." She argued that it is a good thing that dismembered MPs do not have the same rights as the other political groups. Are we going to see these beliefs again when she becomes President of the Chamber? That's what we're worried about. Will we then have a division between first-class room members and second-class room members? Does Mrs Van Toorenburg understand our concerns? How's she handling that? From Mrs Van Toorenburg I go to Mrs Arib. These candidates have a common past, because in 2012 they were still playing ball with each other over Twitter. Terms such as "appearance mentality," "politician unworthy" and "lies" were assigned to each other by the candidates. I'm asking both candidates to respond to this. According to them, is this parliamentary language? Or just to ask directly: can they still play a representative role or an exemplary role after this incident? I would like to put the following question to Mrs Arib. In the media she indicated that she would act against terms such as "fake parliament" and against comparisons with World War II. I knew right away what she was talking about. Will she also take action against statements such as "Moroccans have an ethnic monopoly on crime" and "You have to humiliate difficult Moroccan young people for their own group"? I would like to know whether Mrs Arib is going to take action against this. Where exactly does she set the line? We think that references to World War II are appropriate. After all, we must learn from the past; that is what history is meant for. There are striking parallels between the position of Jews before World War II and the position of Muslims now. "Never again" is the well-known statement about the Holocaust, but it was not meant that we should never talk about it again. I would like to receive a response from Mrs Arib to this historical comparison. Finally, I come to Mr Bosma. In the debates he has led so far as Vice-President, he has made a pleasant, competent and neutral impression. The big question to him is how he will deal with the statements of his own foreman, when, for example, he says to the Prime Minister "do normal" when he calls headscarfs "heads" when he calls Parliament "a fake parliament" and so on. I'd like to get a reaction to this. So much for my questions to the candidates. We would also like to give them some suggestions. Perhaps the rules do not allow these suggestions, but on this basis we will assess their potential for thinking outside the framework. The first suggestion. Each candidate has its strengths and less strengths. That sometimes makes making a choice difficult. You actually want the qualities and potentials to be fully exploited. Is there perhaps room for a duo-presidency, in which one President gets the mission of a ceremonial nature and the face of our Parliament on official occasions and the other President is a technical chairman in Parliament debates that lead the debates in a good way? I can see Mr Bosma's gesture that this should be four, but two seems sufficient to me: a duo. The second suggestion. The Netherlands has a dual system. The independence of the Chamber from the government becomes stronger when the President is a member of an opposition party. Wouldn't it be better if only opposition parties could supply candidates? Who are the most independent? Those are the small parties. After all, the less seats, the less power. The less power, the more independence to the government and the importance of the political group itself. So I end up the way I started. Small parties are crucial to democracy and are a crucial counter-force. Democracy is growing when small parties are given more space. I will conclude, but not after I have thanked Mrs Arib for observing the Presidency during the hectic days before the recess. I wish the incoming President, whoever he may be, good luck and wisdom in carrying out this important and honourable task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. Preferably four candidates have applied for the chair of the House of Representatives, but it's actually four times nothing. First of all, Mrs Arib. At the last election of the President of the Chamber, I opposed her dual nationality. It can lead to conflicting interests. A Moroccan President of the Chamber who has acted as advisor to the Moroccan King does not have our preference. Then Mr Elias. We do not think that the Netherlands is waiting again for a VVD man with a big mouth. Just don't. Like the present candidates from the Bureau, Mrs Van Toorenburg wanted to limit the speaking time and finances of the small groups. Last year she performed in full dedain during the debate on the estimates. In fact, second-rate chamber members had to be made from dismembered MPs. We do not, of course, support candidates who are merely serving the larger groups. Finally, Mr Bosma. With us he is not known for his impartiality. During a debate on the EU, he closed my microphone during an interruption on PVV spokesperson Beertema. The reason was that I was critical of his party's cooperation with Le Pen senior, who had again been anti-Semitic. A President of the Chamber with colourful, nasty tastes is no use to us. Mr. Chairman. You heard me. We're not positive about all four candidates. So I say to this company today: you do not have to count on our voice!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you very much. You used your input to give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	That's your right. I call Mrs Kuiken from the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. This is a special procedure. It is actually a public job interview in which the whole of the Netherlands can watch, at least who is interested in it. That takes a lot of courage. That is why I would like to express my appreciation for the candidates; I thank them for their candidacy. This is an important function. The President of the Chamber is a figurehead of the Netherlands, society and parliament. He or she, along with all those fantastic employees, is the guardian of our democratic rules of play and an ambassador to society and the world. It's an important and honorable ministry. My first question to all candidates is general, but important. How will the candidate fulfil his or her presidency? Can he or she be characterized as tight or as someone who gives space? How does he or she see the cooperation with the First Chamber? How does he or she see his or her role in relation to the manners in the House of Representatives? Other spokesmen have already referred to this. The President of the Chamber also has an important representative role in society, civil society organisations and abroad. I would like to hear from the candidates how they will fulfil that role. I have a number of specific questions to the candidates in alphabetical order. I'll start with Mrs. Arib. She is now the first Vice-President for three years. What did she learn from that? What does she want to give to the House of Representatives? What can it improve in its opinion, both to itself and to the process we know in the Chamber? I ask Mr Bosma why he wants to be President of a parliament he has spoken of with contempt in various guises. In fact, why does he want to be president of a parliament in which there are also people who belong to groups of society he has contemptuously expressed himself about? Those two roll together? I've known Mr Elias for a long time. I know him as someone who loves innovation and action. What innovation does he intend to introduce in the Lower House? How does he look at the position of the smaller groups in the House of Representatives? Mrs Van Toorenburg has a lot of experience, but she has no experience in chairing the plenary, at least not to the extent of the other candidates. We all know that it takes a certain amount of time to work in order to do this properly. The time remaining until the elections is limited. Why does she think she can do this better than the other candidates? I have already said that this is an important function. I very much appreciate the candidates who stick their necks out by running. I look forward to their answers. I hope they'll have a little sense of humor. In any case, I wish all candidates good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the Christian Union Group, I would like to thank Anouchka van Miltenburg for her work and her commitment during her presidency over the last three years. She had to play chess on many plates at the same time and she had to keep a lot of balls in the air. All this under the magnifying glass of the media. It's like playing soccer: everyone knows how to do it, but when you have to do it yourself, it's often hard. Again, Anouchka, thank you. I would also like to thank those Members who are prepared to stand for office today. Going to battle is brave. Our appreciation for that. There are several candidates, and that gives us something to choose. At the same time, it's only for one year. Three of the four candidates are fellow presidency members. That had its advantages and disadvantages in the sometimes exciting meetings we had. I am not gonna clap out of the school because otherwise I'm gonna have to deal with the Schouten committee, and I don't want to. For each candidate I have a number of questions, especially in relation to their letters, for which I thank them. First of all, I would like to address Mr Bosma. Your letter is the shortest, the shortest and to the point. As chairman, the core of your commitment, your ambition for the Chamber, is that the Chamber becomes much more of a lion. I take it you don't mean any more roaring. You're probably referring to the perseverance of the Chamber. How do you intend to extend or increase the powers of the Chamber over the period of over a year ahead of us? I would like to hear an explanation on this point. How do you look at the manners in the Chamber? Are you satisfied with the developments of recent years? Compared with previous years, the unparliamentary language grew sharply. The crucial question for us is why you want to be President of the Chamber now that your own foreman calls the Chamber a fake parliament. Will you, as chairman, have the professionalism to uphold the credibility of the Chamber and to stand by your group chairman when he describes the Chamber again with the same kind of terms? Are you prepared to receive as a representative of the Chamber of Heads of State who are controversial for your group? I call the Turkish Prime Minister, the Head of State of Saudi Arabia and even the President of the European Parliament, Mr Juncker. How do you look at the right of smaller parties to speak? Is that enough or too big at the moment? How do you view the candidacy of your fellow candidates? Do you share the view of your group that a dual nationality disqualifies them? I would like to hear a response to that. Mrs. Van Toorenburg, you have an impressive resume. The other candidates have a broader experience of chairing the Chamber. What experience do you have, other than in the Fyra Committee, in chairing committees, councils or boards? Can you say something about that? You say yourself that you can be quite direct. How does that express itself? What risks does that pose to the Presidency? You will be committed to making the different sounds come true. How are you going to do that in concrete terms? How do you view, for example, the current right of the smaller parties to speak? What are you going to do in the remaining time to strengthen, as you say, the supervisory task of the Chamber, so that fewer third party WOB requests are needed? Mr Elias, you have written the longest letter, but there are the necessary ambitions. You want to liven up the debate more. It can take more time sometimes. This may result in the outcome of meetings. How are you going to reconcile that? If you want a lively debate, you should sometimes also give people the opportunity to ask for it. The debate must be held with arguments, you say, and you intend to say something about it whenever there are incantations on the person. Is that right? Is that what you want? Which innuendo are you going to intervene in? Of course, you do not have to give concrete examples, but there is, of course, a balance between what a person says and the content of his group. I would like to hear a response to that. You say you must keep your party card at home as President, but at the same time you also have a strong opinion on many matters, which is a credit to you as a parliamentarians. How hard will it be for you, as you yourself describe, to have no opinion other than that of the majority of the Chamber? Do you now find the speaking time of the small parties and the larger parties in balance? I would like to have an explanation on that point. Finally, I would like to address Mrs Arib. You say in your letter that you will ensure that the minority views are heard. In your opinion, this is an important value in our democracy. Do you think this is happening too little at the moment? How do you intend to improve this further? You are right to note that information is not always provided to the Chamber in good time. Members of the opposition and coalition parties must have the same information in proportion. Too often, you say, things go wrong here. How are you going to make a concrete improvement and see to it? How would you like to liven up the debate in the Chamber more? Do you have any concrete ideas about this? How do you see your role as guardian of the Chamber as an institution and as a political power vis-à-vis the cabinet, now that you are also a representative of a coalition party? Mr President, I will conclude. I await the answers with interest and wish all candidates good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. In my group, this is a free matter. I'm a floating voter, so that's gonna be exciting. I thank all four candidates for having the courage to stick their necks out by applying here. It's an open playing field. I sincerely say to you that I have not yet made my choice. I would point out to the four candidates that literally every vote counts today, so I expect serious answers to my questions. I've got two for each candidate, based on the letters sent in. I am addressing the candidates in random order. Mr Elias, in the second paragraph of your application, you write the following. "If the phenomenon of "interruptions in two" is abused by not responding to twice (no matter whether it concerns an interrupter in box K or behind the chamber for Members of Parliament) then it must be possible to ask through (...). After all, we are having a debate and the real answer must come to the table." Mr Elias, this remark surprises me from the point of view of constitutional relations. It is clear that someone in trade union K as a member of the cabinet always has to answer because the parliament controls the government. Members of Parliament, however, are subject to the rule that they speak of their own answer, even if they choose to remain silent. It will then be up to the electorate or political groups to deal with such a Member of Parliament or not. So my question to you is how to assess the scope of your comment on Members of Parliament. You will also note in the first paragraph and at the end of the fourth paragraph that you want to operate as fairly and fairly as possible, and that views of all the parties represented must be respected. In view of the fact that you are one of the driving forces in the Bureau for restricting the rights of division, I ask you what those "represented parties" are in the sense of your application letter. I'd like an answer to that. Then I turn to Mr Bosma. Mr Bosma, neither the Constitution nor the Election Act differentiates between types of MPs. The words "group" or "group chairman" do not exist legally. I therefore firmly believe that every Member of Parliament who sits must be able to exercise his parliamentary rights. Nevertheless, I note that I myself have a speaking time of 20 or 30 seconds at VAOs. If the President is using this time strictly, in practice it is not usually possible to table a single motion, and that is precisely a violation of the constitutional rights of a Member of Parliament. Now, not every President is rigid at that time and you can read such a motion, but when you are chairman, it is always a struggle for life, a struggle to read such a motion. That is why I have the following question to ask you: should I vote for you, will you be prepared to deal with this speaking time more flexibly in debates with a very limited speaking time, so that at least one Member of Parliament can table a motion? This question is also for Mrs Van Toorenburg. My second question to Mr Bosma is a question of conscience. Suppose Mr Frans Timmermans and, for example, Mr Erdogan pay a courtesy and acquaintance visit to the Netherlands and visit the House of Representatives, how do you treat these great friends of the PVV? Will you then be able to rise above your group's feelings and treat them as a neutral chairman? Then I come to the questions for Mrs Van Toorenburg. At the bottom of your letter is Dr. Madeleine M. van Toorenburg. You are consistent, because this fits in with the formal approach of your letter. What does this promise for your style of Presidency? Is it getting formal, too? If that is the case, it may be difficult to focus attention in a long debate. People are gonna pop and pop again. I would like your answer to my question as to why you chose such a formal tone in this letter. In the fourth paragraph of your letter, you state that you will explicitly monitor the information position of our Parliament. That sounds like music to me, but I'd like to hear how you're going to do that in practice. Then I'll come to Mrs. Arib. Mrs. Arib, congratulations for your letter. I thought it was the best readable. You were also the only one to mention Mrs Van Miltenburg in his letter. I think that's very sporty. You write at the bottom of your letter that the debate on the procedure is blocking the debate on the substance. In the living room you are wondering what it is about, you write. You find that worrying and you want to change that. I think that is a noble ambition, but here too I find it a bit easy to say. How exactly are you going to change that in practice when you're in office? Can you elaborate on that? I also have a question of conscience for Mrs Arib, which I would like to ask. What does she think of the statement that people with Moroccan roots who live in the Netherlands should be 100% self about their lives and that the King of Morocco should have nothing to say about that? I would like to hear Mrs Arib's comments on this. Then I have a final question for all four candidates. The Second Chamber is also a co-legislator, but I find the number of legislative proposals rather disappointing. How will the new President try to boost this in the coming period, provided they agree that the number is rather disappointing? Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you very much. As chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I would like to say that the active contribution of Members of Parliament will also help in the perception of the debate, for which I would like to thank you very much. I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u21	Madam President. The debate we are having is special, especially since, after Mrs van Miltenburg's resignation, we must elect a new President of the Chamber. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Van Miltenburg, Mr Van Miltenburg, for her unbridled commitment to observe the Presidency in all conscience. Thank you! It's the 60th president since 1815, now over 200 years ago. Some of those presidents completed several periods. I heard Mrs Van Tongeren say it was the 72nd, but it's the 73rd if you take them all successfully. So we're both right, I guess. It is already clear that this presidency will be of a short duration, that is to say a maximum of one year, if no political chunks are made between now and then, because in that case the President would become the shortest-sitting chairman, and that is always good for a mention in some quiz or other, but that is not the ambition expressed in the letters. But who knows, perhaps the one who rolls out of the ballot box today turns out to be such a talent that he or she, like the one who is elected MP again in the next election, may also face a re-election. We have to wait and see how that goes, but the fact that we are talking about some sort of interim chairman already indicates that great ambitions cannot be discussed at the moment. I must congratulate all four candidates; in the applications they clearly show a great deal of reality. They also boast of self-confidence, but of course that's part of it. Faced with the ambitions, I can see two things in all four, namely managing the debate and ensuring the newly reorganized administrative support of the Chamber. The SGP Group wants to raise two points in the direction of the four candidates and then has a specific question for each of the candidates. First of all, the "interruption mania." Before you look in my direction at whether the SGP is already starting with strong words, I would point out that this is a quote from the Acts of 1911. There was already talk of the interrupting mania. The Rules of Procedure are brief and factual on this point. Rule 57: The President may allow interruptions. The second sentence: these should consist of brief comments or questions without introduction. When I read this again recently, I had to rub my eyes out and squeeze myself in the arm as well as if I had always done well, but it really was there: short remarks and questions without introduction. I have the following question for the four candidates: if you were elected, how do you deal with this? Do you allow interruptions? On the basis of this article you are already very strong when you cut off directly when it comes to more than three sentences. Or are you looking at that differently? I am very curious about the reactions to this point. The second point concerns law enforcement in unparliamentary language, sedition or breach of confidentiality. I have once again looked at the Rules of Procedure. This is dealt with in three provisions, namely Articles 58, 59 and 60, and this goes in the order of evil to worse. The first provision concerns a warning, the second provision concerns withdrawal of the word and the third provision concerns expulsion. The latter has not yet occurred in my short career in the Chamber, but who knows what will happen to us with a new regime. It is striking that a simple warning to the letter of the Rules of Procedure is a duty of the President. The other provisions are possible provisions. Then the chairman can make use of it. With this science in mind, I would like to present the following case to the candidates. I would point out that this is an entirely theoretical case. What will you do in practice if a speaker starts his contribution to the debate as follows? "Mrs. or Mr. Chairman. Psychologists, biologists, etymologists, neurologists; they've been looking for a really big brainless loser for years. What exactly is that? What does he look like? What's he doing? Well, that riddle has just been solved. The biggest loser who ever got a face, there he is: the previous speaker!" Again, this is a completely theoretical case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u22	I think everyone is pleased that you have emphasized that for a while. But, above all, continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u23	And that the speaker adds: at least, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u24	There can be no personal fact here, because it was a perfectly random case. I see Mr Van Vliet wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u25	I have always known that Mr Bishop was a bit out of line with the Protestant SGP, but the Chamber should know that I had a friendly lunch with the SGP in recent times. So I guess it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u26	We're just gonna follow up on that. No, I knew it. That is why I also said that it is a completely theoretical case. But hopefully it's a nice case where the four candidates can put their teeth in. Finally, I would like to ask the individual candidates about their letters. Mrs Arib writes very clearly that the role of the President of the Chamber is to serve. I understand that, and I appreciate that, too. In practice, the President of the Chamber is always subordinate to the Rules of Procedure, and in a multi-interpretable Rule half plus one. But the President-in-Office also has a leading role, including in the political process. How does Mrs. Arib view that? Mr Bosma's letter speaks to me as a historian alone, because he goes back no less than 552 years in history and thus shows the awareness that we are in a rich and beautiful tradition. On the positive side, his letter also contains the word 'dualism'. The question to him is: how do you, as President of the Chamber, intend to make the Chamber a lion in the words of the former President, Mr Vondeling, and at the same time keep that lion caged? Mr Elias has written an enthusiastic letter in which I am pleased with the terms 'independent' and 'excessive'. Where his priority lies, may be clear: from points 1 to 3. What he is very explicit about is the interruption hunger. He is right to say that if no answer is given, we must be able to ask for it. But one sentence after that follows the passage: if the same senseless sidewalk is constantly being taken in interruptions, the President must cut off. I ask him the question: can you now clearly define when there is a senseless sidewalk for you, except that this alliterates nicely? Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg. She is the only one to mention the role of the House of Representatives. That's good for me. It only works out that concept when it comes to the information position of the Chamber. It remains a little underexplained how she sees it in the chair, so in conducting debates. I would therefore like to hear from her how, should she be elected, she intends to give concrete substance to the role of the Chamber as an example in debates. Whichever one of the candidates is elected, the SGP thanks them all for their willingness to be able to participate and looks forward to their reactions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr. Chairman. When you apply outside this Chamber, no one needs to know. You send an e-mail, you may or may not be invited to a conversation and whether or not you get the job, that is not in the newspaper. How different it is here. Your application is public, you're running as a candidate through a hedge of cameras and journalists. "Why do you have to be it?', You'll be asked. For the winner later, prepare yourself for the question: "How do you feel now?" And based on the profile sketch, you will be publicly placed along the measuring bar. Congratulations, therefore, from the CDA Group for the four candidates who have made themselves available for the Presidency of our Chamber. A position that's at the center of interest. All the spotlights are focused on it. A position in which you are both President, figurehead and driver. A President is expected to be tactful but with conviction steering, so that the parliamentary process, the staff of the Chamber of Representatives and the imagers can do their work as well as possible and the House of Representatives fully comes to its own in the role it plays constitutionally. So much is being asked: to lead meetings, to face the outside, to be tactful but convincing and, of course, to radiate authority. That requires a lot, a lot, of a President. First of all, of unspoken behaviour and integrity, but also of service to the constitutional process. It is not about the President's person but about the dignity of the post. My question to the candidates is therefore: how are you going to implement this and are you prepared and able to fulfil that serviceable role properly? Let me be clear, we, the CDA, do not want to fiddle in the Chamber. The debate must be able to be conducted in substance and at the sharpest of the cuts, but I would add: with respect and decency. What are the candidates going to do to maintain these rules, these ground notes of respect and decency? Then box K at other times than today. Directors are guests in the Lower House and they should inform the Chamber, even if that is difficult. The obligation to inform the Lower House is the basis of the trust rule between parliament and government. This means that a President must ensure that directors also respond to Members' questions. How are the candidates going to implement this? We have seen too many times lately that there are no answers to many questions or that the information ultimately comes to us on the basis of WOB requests. In connection with this, the way things are going around Prinsjesdag is also a recurring annoyance. What position do you take as President? The erosion of this information position goes on, of course, such as the publication of press releases by directors rather than informing the Chamber, or, as I have just said, the refusal of information to the House of Representatives, which then eventually comes to light by means of a WOB procedure of a journalist or a citizen concerned. The new President should be right in front of the Chamber on this point. How are the candidates going to implement this? Do they fully recognise that the way in which it has gone over the past year is unacceptable and not repeatable and that they will do anything, but also anything, to protect the position and dignity of the Chamber in this respect? The task assignment is limited in time, still 14 months, but extended in scope. The EU Presidency, the preparation for the elections, the implementation of the ABD report on the official organisation and not to mention the forthcoming renovation. So our question to all four candidates is: how are they going to implement this in the relatively short time, the fourteen months that remain? Where are they going to put their priorities? A question that should also be put in public is: are there things from the past of candidates who can be a stand-in-the-way for their functioning and the dignity of the office? We would also like a very clear response from all four candidates. The CDA would like to see a President who, with natural dominance, feeling for the right moment and the ability to stand above parties, gives substance to the authority and dignity of the House of Representatives, a President who is in a more than two hundred-year tradition of Presidents who in the past have fulfilled the important task of the Presidency. You will not be surprised that the CDA Group is looking at Mrs Van Toorenburg with due pride. It is very important to debate this today. I sincerely hope, therefore, that the debate will lead the Chamber to have a President who will be able to guide us through these troubled times as of late afternoon or evening. I will end by thanking the previous President, Anouchka Van Miltenburg, for chairing our House of Representatives and directing all those people in the Chamber of Representatives, who are helping us to do our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u28	Madam President. We have a special debate today; colleagues have already mentioned it to me. There are four candidates in box K. All four of them can be described as driven and ambitious politicians who know their way around. They all deserve to be congratulated for having set themselves up to be our President. It concerns four very different people. So there's really something to choose today. That is only good for the house of democracy. Today, however, we are choosing a President who is not a full-time President. That is a fact that we must deal with. I would therefore like to thank the former President for the great work he has done in recent years, behind and for the scenes. Thank you, Anouchka! The new President is jumping on a rolling train. The VVD considers the new President to be fit for the three main categories of work in which the Presidency consists: the external representation of Parliament, the internal chairing of the debates and the steering of the Chambers Organisation. These are three components which, although not all three are equally visible, are equally appropriate in terms of importance. Many questions have already been asked to my colleagues. I too have a number of questions for each of the candidates about these three categories of work. It is important for the VVD to see how they distribute their attention across those three categories. In addition, I have a few questions for all four candidates. I am going to see the candidates in the order in which they have applied, starting with Mrs Arib. She quickly expressed her interest in the office of President of the Chamber, fortunately even before the ceremony, so that we could prepare ourselves. In recent weeks, therefore, we have been able to hear her motivation on television and in the newspapers. For example, it has repeatedly stated that certain issues which have arisen in the past and which have led to discussion would have been dealt with differently under its leadership. I am referring, for example, to the PVV's statement that this Parliament would be a fake parliament. But how does it see statements like this in relation to the important fundamental right of parliamentarians, namely freedom of expression? Mrs Arib has indicated that she does not think such qualifications are acceptable, but what is the case with what else? Does she have a list of words which she does not consider admissible in plenary? Is it allowed or not allowed to use the word "dirty parliament"? Would it be okay to tell someone in this room to act normal? If someone is speaking language that Mrs Arib does not want to hear as President, then what happens? What does she do? Does she deny him the right to speak? Does she deny them access to the hall? Is it forbidden for Members of Parliament to take part in a debate for a certain period of time? Following on from this question, the following questions. How does Mrs Arib see her role in relation to that of the 149 other parliamentarians? Of course, the President plays a very important role in our democratic system, as guardian of institutional power and authority. Actually, it's the whole democracy in small. We, all 149 colleagues, have transferred a piece of our control to the President. Can Mrs Arib indicate how she is dealing with this trust and with all these instruments? How does it commit itself to the greater importance of democracy? How's she handling the organization? For let me be honest: it is an important category of work by the President, who demands management experience. Can Mrs Arib indicate to what extent she has the authority and experience to actually implement all those changes that are needed? The second candidate is Mrs Van Toorenburg. In her letter, I read an enormous drive to work with the Presidency. Could she indicate how she sees her programme of work? Of the three candidates, she is the one who has not already acquired experience as Vice-President. In my introduction, I indicated that the new President is jumping on a rolling train. The VVD Group therefore asks how Mrs Van Toorenburg thinks that the skills needed for the Presidency and the knowledge of the Chamber as an organisation should be used quickly. Mrs Van Toorenburg explained in her letter that she wanted to be a clear president. In her letter, she wants to make her mark on the debates. Can it explain the course of a debate under its direction? How is it visible and tangible that she is touching the buttons? A good President is sometimes invisible. Does she see herself as a President who is politically grounded? I am not referring to party politics. I am referring to the political process. Or does she consider herself a neutral chairman? How would she deal with the current ambitions for the Chamber of Representatives? There are enormous changes in the pipeline, which will have to take place in the coming period. Can Mrs Van Toorenburg explain what, as far as she is concerned, the House of Representatives will look like in a year's time? Finally, I would also like to ask Mrs Van Toorenburg to comment on the freedom of expression of parliamentarians and whether or not she wishes to speak in the debate. Does she have a list of forbidden words? Or does the free word rule? Then I come to the third candidate, Mr Elias. As Vice-President, he now has extensive experience with the Chamber of Representatives. He's known as someone who presides strictly but honestly. He states that he intends to give a qualitative boost to the debate in this Chamber, a key competence of Parliament. Will he indicate how he sees this and what he is going to change in concrete terms? This year is a special year. Colleagues before me have already said this. This year we are delighted with extra political attention. How is Mr Elias going to spread his attention between the President's internal and external tasks? The European Presidency demands a lot of the time from the President. I also read in his letter about the management experience he has gained in previous positions. Finally, he indicated that he had a large degree of political commitment in several roles in which he had walked around the Chamber. Can Mr Elias comment on the presidency he has developed in recent years? What does he want to achieve in the role of President? It is well known that Mr Elias developed a clear opinion on the duty of information to the Chamber at the time of the investigation by the ICT Committee, of which he was a member and chairman. Can he explain what he intends to do with this experience to change the disclosure of information to Parliament? Can he also indicate how he intends to deal with the role of the Chamber in the cabinet formation? The fourth candidate, Mr Bosma, is the last candidate to come forward. I would also like to ask him what he would say as President on the three aspects of the Presidency mentioned earlier. It's an obvious question, but I still want to ask him. How does Mr Bosma's candidacy relate to the qualifications given by his party leader to this Parliament? How, despite these qualifications, does he intend to take this Parliament seriously, to find support from other parties and also to represent the beautiful parliament outside this Chamber, despite his party's reservations? From his experience as Vice-President and member of the Bureau, how does he view the reorganisation of the Chamber, which should be implemented in the coming period? How does he use his previous management experience for the benefit of the Chamber Organisation? Finally, I have a few questions for all four candidates, first of all on the representative tasks of the President, for example in relation to the European Presidency in the coming months. Can all candidates indicate whether they control English and French enough to represent the Chamber? Can they carry out these tasks properly, without additional facilities being required by the Chamber? The profile of the President of the Chamber states that we are looking for a President with broad support. I would like to give this to the new President, and I would also like to give it to the Chamber, but given the number of candidates, it is possible that there will be a President who can only boast of a small majority of votes. Can the four candidates indicate how they will shape their presidency from such a position? I'd like to close with a case for all four candidates. Like last December, the President will make another Christmas speech at the end of the year, possibly in the middle of the night. I hope it's not so late. I would like to hear from all four candidates what their main message will be at the end of this undoubtedly challenging political year. Then what kind of year have we been under their leadership? How do we look back on debates that have taken place? How have we, as a parliament, with the President in the lead, shaped our role in the European Presidency? What's the status of the Chamber of Representatives by then? Along those three slaps my group will judge these candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you very much. We are now going to listen to Mr Krol on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. Three more speakers will follow. I would ask Members to take some account of the noise level in the Chamber. If you wish to have bilateral talks, I would ask you to do so mainly in the corridors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking the previous President, Mrs Van Miltenburg, who has done everything possible to bring this Chamber into the living room in an understandable way. Thank you for that. Hailed all four candidates as well. I think it is courageous that they are so publicly dared to do their job interview here, and it is good that they dare to shave so publicly. I respect that. I already know most of them. So it is also possible to make a preliminary judgement at least, but I am still very happy to listen to all the answers. 50PLUS is for the remainder of this cabinet period, and that may not even be such a terrible long time anymore, looking for a chairman who can get to work quickly and carry out his or her work in an adequate, relaxed and professional manner. 50PLUS has some questions for all four candidates, but I start with four individual questions. To colleague Bosma. In your role as Vice-President, you have represented us all at meetings and commemorations. I am simply asking you right: have you ever had any comments on your party's background and if so, has it prevented or has it affected the functioning of the Vice-President? To colleague Elias. Do I understand your letter correctly, Mrs Van Tongeren, as well as pointing out that, in your view, the management role and the representative role are not among the first three priorities of a chairman? You are talking about the management role, but beware on page 2. You wrote at the beginning of your letter that you have three priorities: good chairman, good chair and good chair. So three times. To colleague Arib. There are two things at the top for you: the provision of information to the Chamber and the EU Presidency. How are you going to ensure the level playing field for coalition and opposition? How do you put that into practice? Why is the EU Presidency so important to you? Do you have any other priorities? To colleague Van Toorenburg. In the second paragraph of your letter, you write that the credibility of politics is partly determined by how we present our views to the Netherlands from the various interesting points of view. So what do you think are the different interesting points of view? Then I have a few questions for all four candidates. What is your opinion on the split-up of political groups and the possibility of these groups in our Chamber? Are you prepared to schedule additional meeting days if this is necessary in view of the list of agreed debates? And how are you going to ensure that we meet as little as possible after 10:00 p.m., and certainly not after midnight? Mr Voordewind also mentioned this. Are you going to count votes from left to right, or right to left? I think that is genuinely important. Mrs. Van Miltenburg counted from right to left. Or are you going to alternate, as Mrs. Arib does? How do you ensure that you remain an independent president? Are you going to work on the intended digitization of the votes? I would also like to hear a reasoned answer to that last question. How do you look at the small groups? Are you prepared to give these groups a more explicit place in the Bureau? Finally, I would like to say that I regret that we do not know the English system in which the President is no longer a member of a political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. In England they speak of the Speaker, in Germany they call it the Präsident. In Belgium it is sometimes referred to as the "first citizen." With us, it's very simply called "the chairman." Being President is the worst job you can have as a representative of the people. Because as chairman, you have to keep your mouth shut as much as possible and above all not have an opinion. You must be above the parties. I would therefore like to thank the four candidates for having made themselves available for this honourable but also ungrateful task. You should above all be awarded the Chair of the House of Representatives. Giving leadership to this Parliament can only be achieved if we all accept that authority. That's not always easy. We all want a chairman who is strict, but especially for the others. We also want a President who is holding short debates, but we all want to speak a great deal. And we would like a chairman to enforce the rules, as long as it is with the other. This room is politically breathable. Everything here is political. It is precisely in order for this political debate to go well that we need a President who is not political, a President who is above the parties, above the quarrels of the day and above the controversies of the moment. There is a need for a President who must constantly maintain the precarious balance between play and emotion, between content and form. I would like to thank one more person, Anouchka van Miltenburg. I would like to thank her for her hard work as President, even in times when this has not always been easy. It can now do again what we all want to do here, namely to be a representative of the people. I'm going back to the candidates. As chairman, you need to know what you're in charge of, what kind of meat you have in the cockpit. The first question I would like to ask all the candidates is: what do you think is a representative of the people? I also have some personal questions. When I see Mr. Elias, I see a communication man. He's a politician who enjoys the political game. I wonder, then, why would this particular man want to be president? The chair of the President is the only chair in this Chamber in which he is not supposed to give his opinion. I therefore ask Mr Elias: why do you want that? And most of all, I'm asking him, can you? I have the following question for Mr Bosma. I see him in front of the room all the time. Then I see a man who enjoys the Chamberwork. I also see a man with a deep sense of the dignity of this Parliament. How will he continue to defend that dignity as President, for example if I called this Parliament a fake parliament in the Chamber? I have a very different question for Mrs Arib. As well as chairing debates, the President is also a manager of a large and complex organisation. You have no experience with management at this level. Do you think that's a loss? The President is also a representative of Dutch politics. Do you agree that the President should speak English well? Mrs Van Toorenburg, you have a very interesting resume, not only in politics but certainly outside. You've been the director of a prison and now you want to be President of the House of Representatives. I have two questions for you: 1) what are the differences and 2) what are the similarities? The House of Representatives is a diverse parliament and thus a reflection of our people. We are a parliament with many small groups. In our view, the President has a special responsibility to protect the rights of small groups. I'd like to hear how the candidates are going to do that. I am looking in particular at Mr Elias. In the House of Representatives there are many voices, each with a different tone. People's representatives distinguish themselves by their views, but also by their language and tone. It is up to the President to determine the limits by means of the Rules of Procedure. However, this will not always be a solution. The limits of the debate are determined by decency. I ask all candidates what their view of decency is. What can and cannot be done in this Chamber? The House of Representatives is also a powerful parliament when it exercises its rights. The government must provide the parliament with information. However, Parliament's questions are often not answered, at least not mine. Very often information remains in ministries, also relevant information. More and more often, a WOB request from a journalist leads to more information than a request from the Lower House, and that is not possible. We cannot accept that. I wonder how the candidates can improve the information position of the Chamber. It has already been mentioned: the annual ritual around Prince's Day in which politics shirt itself because information is not sent to the Chamber but is leaked massively by ministers. How do you handle this annual ritual? What agreements are you going to make with the government? Do we have to make agreements with the government at all? How can we solve this disgrace of our democracy? The President is also a manager responsible for managing the Chambers, again a diverse organisation of various people who often work under great pressure, not least because of the actions of our Members of Parliament. I would like to invite you all to explore your experiences as a manager, especially as a manager of an organisation that is always under pressure. For the SP it is very important how the President will deal with the staff; personally, by being accessible, even if people come up with a difficult and complicated or not such a nice story, but also labour law. As far as we are concerned, the Lower House should employ as many people as possible. What are the candidates' views? Do they think that tasks should be outsourced more or less? Or do they even think that more people should be taken into permanent employment, for example the cleaners? The President also directs the Board of the House of Representatives, the Bureau. This board controls the President, but also supports him. Like the President, party politics does not belong in the Bureau. Unfortunately, that is the case at this time. This shows, among other things, the many leaks, also here in the Bureau in recent years. Leaks which cause incorrect information to be disseminated and damage the reputation of politics. Three of the four candidates are currently members of the Bureau. I would like to hear how they want to prevent the management of the Lower House from being the subject of party politics. I also ask them whether it would be better to have a President who is not in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. It is up to us to elect a new President from among us in the interim. As all colleagues have said before me, it is of great importance for the functioning of the House of Representatives and thus of parliamentary democracy. I too would like to thank the four colleagues in trade union K who have stuck their necks out and who have applied today. That's brave. My group invited all four of them to explain their motivation and plans in our group meeting. Three out of four took advantage of that. By the way, our group members are making their individual choices today. It is a free matter in our group, like the Van Vliet Group. My group considers it very important that our new President should be equipped with three main tasks. Firstly, that is, of course, the chairing of the plenary debates and the management of the Chamber's agenda. In the interests of democracy and society, the political debate deserves room. That space should not be restricted by formalistic rules or rigid debate blocks or, worse still, by the constant blocking of debates through the minimum majority. Secondly, the President fulfils a task as an external representative of our Chamber, as a real calling card for this real Parliament. In this role, he or she should be able and willing to represent all the other 149 members. Thirdly, the President gives direction to the official organisation. This important organisation is not only extensive and versatile; it is also undergoing a major change. This task must not therefore be underestimated. My group also wants to ask the candidates a number of general and specific questions along these three main lines. I'd like to ask all candidates the following. 1. How will you improve the information position of the Chamber? How do we prevent MPs from knowing more through WOB requests than through Chamber letters? What are you going to do about that in concrete terms? 2. How do you deal with tight coalition majorities who want to block debates? 3. Why are you able to run a versatile organization of 600 men who are also undergoing a major change? 4. How are you going to increase transparency on presidency decisions? And perhaps more importantly, how are you going to increase the participation and involvement of the other Members of Parliament in presidency decisions? I am thinking, for example, of the way in which a number of months ago the digital recording of presence in this building was carried out. 6. How do you see the composition of the presidency after this election? What do you think of the scenario that there may be two or three former presidents in the same presidency tomorrow? Is that good for the atmosphere, which seems to be so good already? 7. How will you select the oral questions for weekly Question Time? 8. What organisational changes do you envisage? Yes, it is a lot of questions, Mr Bosma, but you want to be President or not. 9. What are your long-term ambitions? What do you want after 2017? Would you like to go on as a Member of Parliament and go on as President of the Chamber? I understand that Mr Elias has missed Question 7: how are you going to select the oral questions for weekly Question Time? I realize that I am the fourteenth speaker and that there may be some overlap, but I felt that some of the questions needed to be asked again. I still have a few specific questions. Those are fewer, so don't worry. I'll do it in reverse order of application. So I will start with Mr Bosma. Mr Bosma, do you think this is a real parliament? If so, will you distance yourself from your group chairman? If not, why did you run for office? And will you be President of all Members of Parliament, regardless of their background and their passport? Then I come to Mr Elias. You have often indicated in the past, and you have also made it very subtle, that too many motions are being tabled and that too many urgent debates are being requested. How do you deal with that as President of the Chamber? And how would you deal with a minister like Van der Steur who blackmails WOB requests and refuses to give that information about the Maat case to Parliament? Then I come to colleague Van Toorenburg. You state in your letter that sometimes the Chamber must be pushed back. Why do you stand between the Chamber and the Cabinet and why do you not stand in front of Parliament? Will you leave room for different debate styles, without favouring your own favourite debate style? Finally, Mr Arib. You suggest that members of the coalition often have more information than those of the opposition. I wasn't aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u33	I can't wait to see what's going on. Can you give examples of this? But above all, I would like to ask you what you are going to do about this. I wish all four candidates in box K every success today in answering the questions and in the following vote. Again, it is very brave that they have applied for this position. I would like to thank them in advance for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. Today we are choosing a new President. Before I say anything about this, I would like to thank Mrs Van Miltenburg for her efforts and her work in recent years. I would also like to express my appreciation for those colleagues who have now made themselves available as President-in-Office of the Council. You become the same subject of all kinds of insinuations, reflections and personal assessments, but that seems to be part of it. Before I focus on the present situation, I should like to begin by saying that I might be able to give Mr Bontes a little thought about the future by making a general comment that we might be able to deal with for the future. We are restricting ourselves by imposing a substantial constitutional restriction on ourselves by saying that we choose the President from among ourselves. Would it not be wise to consider in the future whether we could and should increase the freedom of choice by seeking an independent technical chairman, a President of the House of Representatives without the right to vote, who we choose on the basis of a public application? The Chamber directs and elects its President, but every Dutchman can apply on the basis of the profile charts. I am thinking of this because I believe that a good independent President should often display quite different qualities than a Member of Parliament usually does. In the case of municipalities, aldermen are no longer elected from the council and delegates to provinces no longer from the States. I think it is an option in itself. We're not that far, but I wanted to share this thought anyway. Maybe it's something for the future. I'm gonna move on to actuality. There are four candidates, all of whom have qualities. I am particularly looking at whether they could be President in a discreet manner and whether they could make the debate smooth, as a good referee can in a football match. When there's a lot of talk about the referee, it's usually not a good sign. Unfortunately, we've seen that for the past three years. Well, that's unfortunate in itself, but it's no different. That is why I have a number of questions for the candidates. First of all, I would like to ask whether you can and want to play this unobtrusive role. I am asking this question, in particular, to Mr Elias, because he, as President, often insists on making comments about the involvement of Members of Parliament in a debate. Can he and does he want to be modest? I also like to get a reaction from the others. The language is a subject that has often been discussed in Parliament. Can the candidates indicate where the limit is for used terms in the meeting? I am thinking in particular of words such as 'headnote tax', 'fake parliament' and so on. In this context, I would like to ask Mr Bosma whether he considers himself capable of taking his political leader's measure in this matter and whether he will do so consistently. Is individual Members of Parliament also taken into account when using abbreviations and English terms or names? Or will the intended Presidents restrict themselves a little in this way and will they only respond to real standards? Because I don't think we're waiting for a schoolmaster. The next issue is the equal treatment of Members of Parliament. It is also important, because we have all been elected as individuals. Of course, speaking time and the differences between large and small groups have been agreed. I ask all candidates how they want to deal with this. Do they have plans to deal with the smaller groups or divisions differently when allocating speaking time or support? Do they consider the power of the political groups more important than the individual freedom of elected MPs? What position do they choose in this regard? I will continue with the long list of debates to be planned, which is also often the subject of discussion. Will the candidates present additional meetings to ensure that this list is shortened or will they manage to conduct debates? If so, how will they do so? Integrity is also important. The question to all candidates is how they will deal with confidentiality. How will they deal with the press? How open and transparent do they want to function? How do they judge the leaking of confidential information? What will they do about it? To what extent are they mainly independent presidents or also members of their own groups? How do they deal with that double roll? I would ask all candidates to state explicitly that they have never leaked from their group or from confidential meetings. This may not be necessary, but I ask the question anyway. The next question is a hypothetical question to all. At what point and in what way will they act if it becomes clear that action is being taken against them as Vice-President of the House to make their functions difficult as President, for example through leaks from political groups or consultation, and if negative information about them would come out in this way? There is much talk about Mrs Arib's dual nationality and loyalty. Does she want to respond to that? I also have a question for Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Elias, particularly in their role as members of the groups of the CDA and the VVD respectively. They seem to think that Mrs Arib is not a good candidate. In their view, is it logical that the group chairmen of these parties at the PvdA have called for another PvdA candidate, at least if I can believe the press? Is there anything known to them about this action? How do they feel about that? Isn't it up to the PvdA to decide who her candidate is? I ask for a serious response and not the standard answer: I do not judge fellow candidates. I'd like to know how they feel about this. Mr Elias says that he has applied because Mrs Arib is the candidate of the PvdA. I thought Mr Elias had been interested in the presidency for three years. Isn't this a bit of a public relations story to indicate that it's not about him but about the candidacy? Finally, I have two more questions. The first is whether the candidates are still members of the presidency if they are not elected. The second is whether they want to share with us what their personal congratulations and personal words will be for those who have been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u35	Let me make one more comment. You ask Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Elias to respond to an action by their group chairmen written in the newspaper. You may, but I do not think it is appropriate to ask the candidates to respond to each other. They are not interviewing each other. For this they all have a representative of their group who can ask questions on behalf of that group. I would like to thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u36	However, I would like to say that I believe that a member of my group is also involved in such a process. That is why I asked them whether they were aware of this and what their opinion was on it. In that sense, I think that question is justified and sincere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u37	Of course, you can ask them if they were aware of this and what their opinion was on the actions of their own group chairman, but this is not a question of an assessment of each other by the candidates. I do not think that was entirely clear, and I wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. The beauty of this Chamber is that we have sixteen political groups. This reflects the diversity of our democratic society. The great thing is that in this Chamber decision-making is always taking place in the end. The majority decides, and we do so under the leadership of the new chairman. At the end of each debate, decision-making takes place, even today. My group would like to focus briefly on five points in these elections. Legislation takes time and care. Can the candidates support this principle? Do the candidates recognise that careful legislation means that there is freedom of speech, but at the same time that nocturnal madness is prevented, as we have seen in the treatment of the Media Act, for example? How can this be prevented? An important political instrument is the possibility of tabling motions. In practice, they are often removed in the second period in order to remain within the speaking time. Large amounts of text are then pronounced at a high rate. The result is that for all those who want to follow the debate, it is absolutely not clear what the content of the motions is. In what way do the candidates intend to change this undesirable situation? The third point is very important to me. Article 67 (3) of the Constitution knows the principle of voting without burden. That must be defended. Do the candidates recognise the consequence of this constitutional article which prevents MPs from acting as party puppets? Do they endorse the Rules of Procedure, which state the ultimate consequence of this Rule, namely that division of political groups may be a consequence? In line with this, my group wonders whether the candidates recognise that there are in principle no A or B candidates and that all MPs and all parliamentary groups have equal rights and equal obligations and have a right to equal support. Mrs Van Toorenburg also spoke to me about seat robbery and the'monster look in the mouth' in her contribution to the review of the estimates in June of last year. In the light of this ruling, how does it intend to be a chairman for all Members of Parliament? All the candidates are talking about the transparency of this Parliament and about the clarity of this Parliament outwardly. How do the candidates feel about electronic voting in this house in order to increase transparency? Finally. In the liberal political perspective, connecting parties, connecting people, connecting politics to society is of course central to "freedom." I hope that this connection will be the central theme of the new President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u39	This brings us to the end of the Court's first term contribution. A lot of questions have been asked. I would like to give colleagues half an hour to prepare the answer to these questions. For that, I will suspend the meeting. I have to tell you that by drawing lots, I will have to decide who can answer first after the suspension. That is what the candidates are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u40	We will continue the debate with the candidates for the position of chairman of the Lower House. A few comments before we start answering the questions by the candidates. Mr Kuzu has suggested the duo presidency. I've been with the Warrior to see how that is regulated. Article 61 of the Constitution states that each Chamber shall appoint one President from among its members. A duo-presidency is therefore not yet in place, but of course the President and the Vice-Presidents deal with their own responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u41	Okay, here's what I'm gonna add to that. Before I made that point, I indicated that the rules do not allow this, but I am particularly concerned that the candidates dare to think out of the box, so outside the rules. We can change laws and rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u42	As long as those rules are in place, the candidates will abide by them, but I can tell you that thinking out of the box in the division of tasks between the President and the Vice-Presidents is certainly already the practice at the moment. I would like to make a few comments on the order of the debate in the near future. The questions are and go very wide. I really want to make sure that the answer clarifies where the candidate is. That's what you want to know in order to determine your voice. It is not a question of having a very substantive debate with the candidate. As long as a position is not clear, I think you have the right to place an interruption. However, if the position is clear, but if you do not agree, it will end in this debate. I would very much like to agree with you and I am going to help you if I think that is necessary. Many words have been spoken about the interruptions, such as "phenomenon," "maniae" and so on. Until the next President takes over, I am counting on short questions and real answers in this debate, and I think it should be possible to do so in two. We have many speakers and we have four candidates. In order for the debate to be structured for the candidates, I would like to propose the following. I ask each of the candidates to answer both the general questions and the specific questions addressed to them. I'd like to propose to all Members of Parliament that they do the interruptions afterwards. If you really think that you can't remember your point to the end and you really have to ask your question, you may of course always come forward, but I think it helps if we do this in a structured way. You may, of course, place several interruptions, but in that case I would like to propose one point per Member of Parliament per interruption. I would then like to put you back on the list for another interruption, if you would like to make another point with that particular candidate. If we do it this way, the candidates who have to answer the questions will know what they're up to. Before we ask the candidates to answer the questions asked to them, we have to determine the order in which they will do so. As always, we determine that through a draw. I would ask the Registrar to put four notes, which bear the names of the candidates, in a cup. I will take all the notes out one by one, so that you know the order in which you can count on in replying to colleagues. I pulled the notes out of the cup. First of all, I would like to address Madeleine van Toorenburg. Then Khadija Arib has the floor. Then to Ton Elias. The note with "Martin Bosma" was also in the cup. He's gonna be the last one to answer the questions. In that order it will be. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg to answer the questions put to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to all the various speakers in the Chamber for the opportunity we have today, and I too, to explain what motivates us and me to be your President. It has rightly been said that the Presidency is in a tradition of which we have the last President among us. The House owes a great deal of thanks to her, and I would like to thank her for having always meant a great deal to me as a Member of Parliament. I have always been able, in the other roles I had, for example from the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra, to address this President and to discuss with her the way things were done. I've always appreciated that. I think it's good to name that now. The many questions from the Chamber simply indicate how involved everyone is in democracy and in finding their own new President. So there are a lot of them. I think all the candidates have had a little stress in the last half hour. I'm just gonna try to answer as many questions as possible, also because of the involvement that comes out of it. First of all, let me say what I wanted to make clear in my letter. For me, the core of the Presidency is monitoring the information position of the Chamber, leading the debates and also the important task of steering the entire organisation. We know there are special circumstances. I am thinking of the presidency of the Netherlands, but also of the very short time that the President will be your President. The latter also requires a bit of a sense of reality. I think that's very important. People ask me what the grand and compelling changes I want to make are, but there aren't many of them. I'll get back to you on that. What is particularly important to me is the content and form of the debate. It is also about the votes that Members should be able to get in the debate. We have an exemplary role to play, and this is evident from a number of things. This is demonstrated in the first instance by what we say to each other in terms of content. The content may be very well formulated. I can do that myself. I also appreciate it very much when everyone is very keen on the debate. There's nothing wrong with that either. There's freedom in that. I think it is also very important to have a very serious debate here. In my letter, therefore, I am right to hand over to Mr O'Honnell, I think that is the most important thing we are doing. At the same time, we can also promote the responding attitude, which is very important, by being very critical and compelling, but also understand that sometimes it takes some time to get an answer. We will sometimes have to give room for this, if it is motivated why it takes longer. Sometimes we do things with steam and boiling water and then we can sometimes fly off the bend with each other. Precisely because this occurs only once, I felt that I should name this to indicate why the importance of giving information to the Chamber is so great. That responding attitude, as I wrote in my letter, is the most important thing. Thorbecke also talked about this and he did so for a reason, because the Chamber is dependent on that information from the cabinet. A great deal has been said about this today. How can a President-in-Office ensure that the Chamber actually gets that information? A lot of people know me as president. I think it is very important that cabinet members actually respond to the Chamber. It is my honour to have had a very clear input as President of Parliament and then have no answers to questions at all in the first term of the cabinet, which means that they will have to redo their entire first term in their second term. I also see a role for the President of the Chamber. You can monitor this process. You can watch it. In fact, I have done so once or twice to force cubes to ensure that a debate becomes clear, that the Chamber gets the answers it needs. Then I'll come up with the rappels. It is always a thorn to me that people have to ask for answers to their questions repeatedly. I believe that the President-in-Office can have a much more compelling role in this. It can also contact the cabinet itself to ensure that the cabinet properly motivates why a question has not yet been answered. I believe that a President-in-Office of the Council can be much more compelling in that regard. He or she may encourage the Cabinet and in the second term ensure that the Chamber receives answers. Then I guess you're not the lead chairman. Furthermore, as President, you must try to be as far out of the picture as possible, to ensure that all the noises in this Chamber are given the full space to be brought forward. Then society can hear how we feel about the different things. Indeed, some directors, as well as some colleagues, can speak for hours. Sometimes you can steer that, light or firm. Sometimes you can say that someone has to come to an answer. I've done that a lot in debates. I think it is important that this should also be done here in the Chamber. Especially when things get to the media earlier............................................................................................................................................. Perhaps you should even draw up such a debate. If the cabinet itself states in the media that it considers something of great importance, it must also come here immediately to explain why it is so. You can't put that on the very long track. The information position of the Chamber is therefore crucial. We are the representatives of the people. We must make sure that we know what the cabinet is up to. We need to be able to assess and adjust when this is necessary. So you're gonna have to make sure we have and get all the information. I believe that a President can have a somewhat compelling role in this, if necessary. Then I come to the form of the debate. I think it's very important. We are more visible than ever at this time in what we do and audible in how we speak. The shape is very important. As I said, the President is not about the substance. The President may refer to the form. How this form is guarded is also decisive for the authority of this Parliament. I liked to experience this passion from the SGP and once very rabid lyrics. That was really good to see. I think you should always play the game in this, where when someone really goes overboard and gets insulting, you have to make a comment about that. So you're gonna have to say something about that. Our Rules of Procedure indicate for a reason a kind of direction in that, in the sense that when someone continues to do so and is really insulting and troublesome, you can intervene. I don't think a chairman should rule that out. It's something you do last, because I'm very attached to freedom of speech. It is precisely in this Chamber that we must be able to say everything, and it is in this Chamber that we must be able to address each other. That's democracy. It also means that you have to let the different sounds come to their senses, but if someone goes over the line, you have to warn that person first and then possibly indicate that something else is not possible. Fortunately that hasn't been necessary yet but you should be able to do it and you shouldn't be afraid of that either. I think you can also do a lot behind the scenes. It doesn't always have to be disruptive here, so you beat the whole debate to death. You can also talk to people in a different way about what's happening. Another very important question concerns the composition of the Chamber with all these different groups. As a member of a political group, you can have a certain opinion on this, which you then raise in the case of estimates or debates. I have done so myself, and I would not be worth a slap in the face if I were suddenly to turn away from it opportunistically in order to please a few Members here in the Chamber. Well, I'm not. However, as chairman, it is important to do the best possible justice to all the different political parties in this Chamber, small and large. This is where all the voices need to be heard. Of course, you can talk about a threshold or whether you should do something with small parties, but I look at it occasionally with some concern. In fact, I believe that smaller groups should be able to have an opinion on the whole and should therefore also be able to have an opinion on all these matters. If you cut off small groups, you will only run the risk that I will not be able to put it as nicely as the previous chairman of the Green Left Group will almost become a sort of quote parliament, in the sense that you will hear big and compelling stories from large parties and the small parties will be so limited that they can't do more than give quotes. That's not what I stand for. On the contrary, I think it is very important that small groups here in this House also know that the President is there for them. As long as everyone here speaks, everyone in that room must have space, split off or not. I think this is very important. This is certainly true in the case of legislative referrals. Legislation is a very important task of this Chamber here perhaps speaks to the lawyer now, and everyone will have to have the space to carry out that task. In fact, legislative consultation should not even be limited in speaking time. Each individual member must therefore be able to make every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr Voordewind, you are now in front of the interrupting microphone, but I had proposed that at least the candidates should be given the opportunity to keep their story first. Do you now have a point that you think it really can't wait until the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u45	Well, it's not that strong either, but it's specifically about this point and it's a very important point for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u46	I understand that this is a very important point for you and several colleagues, but I would ask you to let Mrs Van Toorenburg finish her story first, precisely where we are dealing with so many speakers and with so many colleagues who will have questions on various points. Thank you very much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u47	I know it when Mr Voordewind says that it is a very important point. I really do. It's not just a house of majorities here. It is also a house where minorities have to have a voice. Society must have the feeling that it is being heard here and given full scope, even though parts of it are represented by small groups. Where restrictions have been proposed in the past, it is not up to us to reverse that immediately, but I will always guard that every small fraction keeps the space to do its story. Then I come to the organisation of this house, where I take the organisation of the debates with me immediately. I would not propose any changes in the number of Members for debates. I also do not want to propose limiting the number of motions. I do see a very long list of debates. Some of the debates are held much later than we actually consider desirable. You could be much more creative in bringing together debates. If a subject can be made wider, debates can be merged. You can see how you can do everybody justice. People can say: but I was the one who asked for the debate? But if you ask for a debate and then it is only held a year later, then what is the strength of it? Don't just do everybody justice by merging debates and seeing if you can debate at a shorter time. I think we can do that. Putting it away in legislative submission is not the best way. At the same time, it is not just the debates in this Chamber that matter. The debates in the small halls are also absolutely important. There are very important things being discussed, and that is where it can be done. I come to the selection of oral questions. It remains very important to discuss in Question Time the important, major issues which are very topical and which cannot wait for another debate. Points raised recently may have caused some unrest or resurrection. You have to address it briefly and firmly. I always say this to groups: at the beginning of the week we always try to do it very well. At the beginning of the week you address the very topical issues, so that you can fully discuss the rest of the debates in peace and balance. I think that's important. That is what oral Question Time is for. You have to look very critically at whether something is really very topical and whether it really needs to be dealt with now. Maybe it's already been discussed. That's the way it's gonna have to be. A small organisational point is the often suggested wish to vote electronically. We discussed this in detail at the time of the estimates. When we saw what it cost, we became very reluctant. That's actually the only reason it hasn't been done yet. It requires a huge investment, which we may have in terms of. can do if there are still some renovations taking place here. It's not a priority I'd like to spend the money on right now. Renovations are something very special. I know that because I built a prison four times. It's very difficult, especially with the government real estate company. That's in a lot of parts. It's hugely diverse with countless subcontractors. So I know what it means to do and lead a major renovation. I am confident in my heart now that we are thinking of doing it in a short time and perhaps going somewhere else. If you break your safety by actually remodeling here and at the same time keeping the company open here, I see big risks. I used to remodel a prison while things were going on. You really shouldn't think about that in terms of safety and organisation. A number of questions have been asked about the embargo regime. It is important that all parties are well prepared for the debate. It's no secret I'm attached to not leaking. Otherwise, I would not be able to put my energy into the committee which is currently under the supervision of Mrs Schouten. If we agree that we are not doing something, I think it is very important that we do not do it and that it has consequences if we do it. I think the cabinet should go through with that. You cannot say: we do not know, feet in the air, we proceed to the order of the day. That really is a thorn in my eye. If we agree to do it in a certain way, then we must maintain it, and we must continue to do so. I think that's very important. The European Presidency of the Netherlands has just begun. I think that is very important. Perhaps it is reassuring for the members of the PVV that our cabinet members are now less often in Brussels, because all of Brussels and all of Europe are coming here. Maybe that'll make it easier to have a quick debate. I do attach great importance to the fact that the Netherlands is President and that we can now try to organise important matters. We have seen the agenda. All I have to do is take one small point out: antibiotic resistance. Mrs. Bruins Slot knows how I always do that. It's a very great danger. This can be arranged as the Netherlands, but it is better to organise it in Europe. Such matters are also of great importance. Let the Netherlands lead in that. That's what we're doing so well for, so it's going to have to go on. In my opinion, cabinet members can represent each other well, so we will address them more often when they can't be there. I am very glad that the Netherlands is chairman and that everyone is coming here. I'd say it's a challenge. I wrote in my letter that I worked for the United Nations. I had a long time of preparation, spent a winter in Kosovo, and then I was busy for a long time. I have found it very pleasant and know that it is very difficult to work internationally. I'm glad you did. My language skills have helped; a question has also been asked about this. I lived in England. It is interesting to note that my first lecture was on European law and that the professor apologized for having to teach European law. You can see how a country can sometimes train its own people to be critical of Europe. I know from what thought that was felt. This is important when you see how this is viewed in different countries in Europe. My international experience could be of service. Several questions have been asked about the official organisation. I have been working in management positions for over ten years and have seen how important it is for a new team to be able to become a truly new team. People are gonna have to play each other. That is my aim to ensure that we know where the forces and challenges of the new team lie, also in relation to each other within the team. What are the team members running out of energy and what are they getting energy from? That's how you make a strong team, and that's how an entire organization can grow. That's my management experience. I've always been a connecting leader. In every assessment I've done, the outcome was crazy green with a little red and yellow, for the people who love the colors. This means: binding, but independent; keeping everyone together, but moving forward if necessary. We have had a lot of debates on staff. I think it is important that everyone who works at this particular company should feel connected to it. Whether people work here from a tender or are employed by us, everyone is part of this company, everyone is a chambermate. I think it is important that we do this right. I also prefer that people are employed by us. This does not mean that if they are not employed by us, we should trample on their interests. On the contrary. I think it is a good thing that we have Chamberlains, who make our immensely important work possible. We must always ensure that we keep this in mind, to ensure that they can do so and that they feel appreciated in it. A lot of personal questions have been asked to me. The best one was Mr Van Raak's, I can say in all honesty. What's the difference between working in prison and working with your colleagues? Maybe this is where it's at. I've spent my whole life standing up for people I don't agree with: in prison, in law enforcement and also here in the debate. Whether it's a small or a large fraction, I really like to bet, even if someone doesn't agree. I don't know why I like that. Maybe it suits me. Maybe that's why I like being President of the Chamber so much. I want to be able to make a meaningful effort. Of course, there is a big difference between leading a committee of inquiry on the Fyra and the House of Representatives. At the same time, there is the game how you can eventually achieve the best result. For me, when all the different sounds are heard and you get back together. That's what I've always done with the Fyra Commission, without losing sight of the fact that you also have to go through because you have to deliver an end product. To give each other the space and within the differences to come to something again, I found very pleasant. This is something that I believe could also be given a place in this chair. It has been said that I have not chaired many debates. That was rightly said. Here, in this Chamber, I have done it several times, but not as often as the colleagues sitting around me. That is absolutely right. On the other hand, over the past eight years, I have chaired many debates in the committee rooms, including in the VWS committee. It is no secret in this house that the debates at VWS can certainly be quite turbulent. It is not just the debates in this Chamber that matter. I refer to the debates on the Wmo and on youth care. I have led many debates in the Committee on Security and Justice, which absolutely mattered. In that sense, many Members know me as President who tries to be as reluctant as possible to let the game run as it is and at the same time, when a ruler swims away, withdraw him for a while. If blocks are being made that make it impossible for me as chairman to understand it, then there is also a problem for a ruler. I sometimes try to be a little leading in this and to ensure that all questions are answered, because Members of Parliament must be done justice. Mrs. Arib and I used to bike together. That's been noticed by a lot of people. They used to say, "Don't worry, the fish will be in the paper tomorrow and they'll throw it away." However, I noticed that there is no fish in Twitter. A word like "appearance mentality" is a very harsh word, but it was about dead people. That was the association; it didn't just fly out of the sky. But everyone's learning from social media, including me. After that, I wouldn't have done this kind of thing on Twitter again; I didn't do that either. You have to watch how you do that. Sometimes a subject really matters to you. In this case, it was about sexual abuse in the Catholic Church and the things that were going on there. If you're trying to stand up for that, also because you know that your own family might have been a victim of it, then sometimes something can touch you so that you say things you'll think about later: well, should I have? Anyway, that's why I said that back then. We have had a lot of questions. If you give me a chance to be your President, I will try to speak clearly. A lot of people like it when I talk. At the same time, I know that when I'm very strict, everyone says, "There's that school teacher again." But yes, I try to be clear, to speak clearly, not to make things too complicated and to be there for everyone. So if you give me that chance, I'll do it to make sure that every sound here gets the space, especially the little ones. You're not just here for the big ones. The big ones can make themselves heard. I'll stand for that. It is also very important for the cabinet to have the opportunity to answer questions. Sometimes you see that the Chamber has spoken very diversely for two hours, the ruler takes his breath to answer and it is full with the interrupting microphones. As President-in-Office of the Council, you can sometimes say: let us try to get the first answers and then act on them. You have to play that game, too. Many Members know that I sometimes say that I guard if they get an answer, but that does not mean that I make it a satisfactory answer. That's up to the cabinet. We can then conclude this with each other in motions and in the votes. I shall conclude with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Voordewind had already indicated that he had an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u49	Thank you for explaining your letter, Mrs Van Toorenburg. One point that I would like to see clarified is your comment on speaking time for the smaller groups. Earlier, your party has said that the electoral threshold should be raised. However, reference was made to the German model with a threshold of 5%. That would mean that parties like the SGP and the Party for Animals would be excluded. You stand here as a person and not as a party member, but as a person you said earlier that the smaller parties should be given shorter speaking time. The last comment was on the estimate, I think. How do you reconcile both comments with the story that you're keeping now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u50	It doesn't bite each other. On the one hand, you can decorate your democracy in a different way, with a threshold that fortunately is not as high as you indicate. I wouldn't want that either, but that aside. On the other hand, you can see how much space someone gets as a Member of Parliament. I did say in that discussion that I can imagine that smaller parties do not have the same space as large parties. Of course, it saves money. I have always found that there is a very high threshold for restricting small parties. On the contrary, I think it is important that everyone can take responsibility in all respects. If you limit small parties too much in speaking time, we get a quote democracy, and I would never want that. If you don't give people enough space, they can't focus on more things, and then you force a party to become a single issue party, a "one-subject party" - Mr. Elias always finds it horrible when we speak English to become a "one-subject party." We have to watch for that. I think it is important that we continue to ensure that small groups too, with the space they are given, whether they are financial and organisational aspects or debate times, are able to make the full sound. I'll always guard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u51	This answer is sufficient for Mr Voordewind. Mr Verhoeven also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u52	I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her explanation. We have just spoken about the different types of debate. Mrs Van Toorenburg has always said that she considers the prestige of Parliament to be very important for the functioning of democracy. I agree with her. At some point she said that you can tackle certain forms of debate that may not be very desirable, possibly behind the scenes. I think it is very important for Parliament to have it on the scene as well, so that the public can see where it goes too far in the eyes of the President. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg want to do it all behind the scenes, or does she dare to do it in front of the scenes when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u53	First of all, on the screens. In the first instance, we will have to address each other here when someone says something that you think is going too far. I would like to draw your attention to the fine example that came from the SGP Group. I think you should really say something about that and just say it directly, right here in the Chamber. However, you can also say afterward, and that is what I meant to say why you want something. Otherwise, we will have a sort of war, a fight of our own that is not serviceable to the prestige of democracy. So you have to address it. Sometimes you have to address it again and if it gets crazy, you have to intervene, but also after that you can talk to each other about it. That's what I'm talking about. In addition to what you're doing here in public, you can also tell us later why you think something can't be done. If someone says something that you don't think should be said about in the chair at the time, when, if you think about it later, you actually think it was over the line, I think you can take it up as chairman. Perhaps this can happen in the presidency, which I believe should also be more transparent. That could come back there. I do not think, however, that we always need to have that confused here, because that also harms the reputation of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u54	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for the answers she gave. I think she kept a nice story, especially when she said that minorities and small groups should have the space to do their story. This can be done particularly in the case of legislative amendments. You can ask for unlimited speaking time for that consultation, but we are always conscious of it. However, there is less room for this in 30 member debates and other debates. I ask Mrs Van Toorenburg very specifically what she wants to do differently from the rules that we currently have and which are laid down in the Rules of Procedure. What is the specific commitment of Mrs Van Toorenburg to become President of the Chamber in the presidency, to give that space to minorities and small parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u55	That space has been restricted and we have taken a number of steps. I think it is very important that we look into the future to see whether this is feasible for everyone. I think that a President should be careful when, in a very large debate, such as a debate on taxation, parties have only one-and-a-half minutes of speaking time, in which they really cannot say anything at all. I think we should have the courage to look at that with each other. Do we want a party to be able to say a bit wider than just one thing? Do we want a party to be able to take a position? If we agree with each other, then we should agree that perhaps a minute will be added. That's the game we have to play with each other. I would not like to change that now, let me be very honest about it, but I do think that we should pay attention to the fact that small groups can carry out their full role as representatives of the people in this way. If that is not the case, I will argue within the presidency to see what scope we can offer each other. After all, it is in nobody's interest if someone can only take a breath and say something, and then no longer has a role to play. I don't think that's good. I think people are going to come up with other ways of making their story heard, when I want them to show it in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u56	I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for the long explanations and long answers. She can help me decide my choice later. Can Mrs Van Toorenburg say in one sentence with three or four terms of force or key words why she is the best President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u57	I will always pay particular attention to the form of the debate, to monitoring the information position and to ensuring that a President of the Chamber is fully represented, towards the organisation and internationally. These are important things for me that I would like to deal with: shape, content, let the organisation grow here and then make sure that the Netherlands is well placed in its presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u58	Let me put my question a little more clearly: what makes Mrs Van Toorenburg as a person this new great President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u59	I'm a connecting leader. I always have been. That is something I have seen in my past, done in the Fyra and been able to do in my group, and that is what I would like to do here in this house: that we can have a huge difference of opinion with each other, but that ultimately, if we go through the door here, we really feel that we have all been able to have the debate in the dignity of each other. I will always commit to that, with the members and with the organization. The binding force is something I know I can do very well. I know that makes me special.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u60	I said in my speech that GroenLinks attaches great importance to the free speech, but that there may be a limit to that in this Parliament too. Mrs Van Toorenburg has said that she intervenes when it comes to the rule of law. I would like to hear a few concrete examples. Where's the writing? When will it get too bad and how would this presidential candidate intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think that crossing the line is very well formulated in our Rules of Procedure, namely if it is offensive and if it is disorderly. Then you will initially have to say something about that and ask if anyone wants to take it back and not go on with it. If anyone's gonna go through with that, you're gonna have to intervene. So it's the insults and the threats. I am not easily shocked by insults, because I have heard all the curse words used in the Netherlands in my past. However, I do not think they are appropriate in this house. I think we should address each other here. If someone's gonna keep going, you're gonna have to step in. It is therefore already quite clear in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u62	A number of other speakers have mentioned the example, and I would like to make it a concrete 'fake parliament'. What would this presidential candidate have done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u63	I am not going to state what I would have done in the situation that Mrs Van Miltenburg, our previous President, stood for. I don't think that's a choice. At that time, she made the decision to react in this way. As a general rule, I do not think that comment is appropriate to the way in which everyone here is committed to his responsible task. I see that everyone here is in a way the representative of the people and that everyone is trying to serve their own people. Whether it is a small fraction or a large one and whether it is a small one or a large one is irrelevant. I can see everyone here doing their best to make all those sounds sound. I would never call it a fake parliament. I think it's a nasty word. However, I am not going to say what I would have done at that time, when that was said, if I were Mrs Van Miltenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u64	I think this is an important point. I asked a number of questions about it in my term. There are a number of contradictions. I have also heard this in Mrs Van Toorenburg's speech, which rightly points out that many things are important. I've heard that a lot and that's right, because there are a lot of things important in this house. However, I have heard a number of contradictions which I am still struggling with in terms of clarity. I hear Mrs Van Toorenburg say that you must be able to say anything here. At the same time, she says: if anyone goes over the line, I will intervene. I am not going to squeeze small groups together, but I will stick to my previous positions. At the end, Mrs Van Toorenburg said: I am sometimes called the school teacher. With my kids at school, there's a list of rules. I think it is very important to have this clarity. So perhaps she can explain once more at what time she intervenes and not at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u65	You will never see me intervene on the content. I'm not talking about content. A chairman is not about what people want to put forward or what positions people take. That's what the debate is about. You have to be able to talk to each other about that. A chairman can say things about the form. If someone is threatening or is directly insulting, then you can or should say something about it as chairman. That's important to point out what I mean by going over the line. The other point was about the small groups. I have tried to make it clear that I am happy to do so again because I think it is important that small groups should be able to participate in the debate in the broadest possible way, and that they should not just focus on one thing because of the speaking time, so that they cannot be brought to justice. We have made a choice in this and I stand for it. I am not going to try to change that immediately tomorrow, but we have to keep an eye on that. If we then complain about this, then we shall also be doing so, because someone keeps shouting just one thing, then we must also dare to say to each other: is it not true that they do not have room to deepen something else because we are organizing it in this way? We will have to play that game in the Presidium to see if we still do justice to everyone and every sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u66	I am particularly concerned that a number of contradictions should be clarified. I have heard Mrs Van Toorenburg's answer. I am now also getting an explanation of that, for which I am grateful. There are a number of things she mentions as important, but in the end a choice has to be made. Does she choose to intervene, for example, when a word that is a very good word in the regular language is used in her experience in the debate to disrupt order? Or does she let it go and leave it to other parliamentarians, for example in the context of freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'd make a lot of things happen. It is very often not up to me but to the game in the Chamber to ensure that we address each other. I'm mainly focused on the following. If someone is immediately threatening or immediately rudely offensive, my bar is quite high; let me be honest, I will intervene. But I'm not doing that too fast, because you shouldn't disturb the debate in that sense either. When I think "is it up to me that I think this is a term that I wonder if I should?', Then maybe I'd rather discuss it with someone later in the sense of, "Why do you say it like that?" I can also discuss it with my colleagues. I think you should be very transparent in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mrs Van Toorenburg points out that giving answers and transparency are important. I think so, too. I had asked her at the end of my speech to what extent she was aware of the action outlined in the direction of the Labour Party to choose another candidate. I still have two questions about that. The first question is: did she know about it? The second is: what is her opinion if that has taken place or could have taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u69	I did not know in advance that there had been discussions between group chairmen about which candidates would be desirable. I know, however, that it was never said to come up with another one once a group had made a choice. That's not done. That's all I've heard from reliable sources. And if I say it wrong, I'll be corrected, but that's from my experience. When Mrs Arib was elected, there was no pressure, as far as I know, and said: you must withdraw her; come with another. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u70	Clear. Thank you. That is good for transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you very much. I see there are no further questions. I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her reply. We will continue with Mrs Arib. I would also like to propose to her: first the story and then the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their contributions, questions and comments. I would also like to thank my fellow candidates for our standing or sitting here together. There's also a choice to be made. I want to start with the reason why I applied for this position. The reason is that the position is a wonderful office and an honorable function in our parliamentary democracy. I have 17 years of parliamentary experience. I belong with my colleagues Wilders, Van Bommel and Van der Staaij to the longest-standing MPs. That's a rich experience. The sense of responsibility is also the reason why I have opted for this position. Not only have I been in the Chamber for a very long time, but I have been in the Bureau for a very long time since Gerdi Verbeet's presidency. Over the past three years, I have been the first Vice-President of the Chamber to chair the Chamber very often. That is, of course, an important task for the President. In my capacity as Vice-President, I was also able to represent the Chamber externally. I am very closely involved in the organisation of the Chamber, but I will come back to that later. Mrs. Kuik asked if I have anything to give to the MPs because of my experience. I would like to say that we all need to be brief and concise. I'll try to set a good example. Then I'll go straight to the questions. In particular, Mr Voordewind, but also Mrs van Tongeren and Mr Wassenberg, asked a great deal about the importance of minorities in the Chamber. The essence of democracy is personal, but I believe that many people agree with me that the position of minorities should be protected and strengthened and that their interests should be defended. That is a great value in the Chamber. I share that value. This also means that the Chamber must be seen and treated equally. In the role of President, you must ensure that this is done. I have done so in the past, and I will continue to do so in the future. Of course, the instruments of the Chamber are important: the submission of motions, the questioning of questions, the right of initiative. These are instruments that serve all of us, and that is something that you, as President-in-Office of the Council, must be vigilant about. This also means that minorities have the right to use the same instruments as other groups, which may be larger or part of the coalition. Of course, the provision of information is also important. I didn't elaborate that in my letter for nothing. Mr Verhoeven also asked. I'm standing in front of a strong room. The provision of information is crucial for the functioning of all Members of Parliament. This also means that, as President of the Chamber, you are responsible for creating a level playing field and that all colleagues must be fully and properly informed. I have often been in that chair and have been through arrangements of work. I have also had debates in which colleagues were sent a report or a letter with a lot of technical information at the last minute; such a debate cannot be conducted properly. The follow-up question is, how are you gonna do that? I've read a lot about myself in the papers; you've read that, too. I don't think anyone's getting away from that these days. I share the qualification that I am a pain in the ass; I see Mr Samsom nodding. That quality is very useful to me. In any case, I will pass on the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the cabinet. You have to do that anyway, but I'll be bothering to rulers if they systematically fail to inform the Chamber in good time. You do that by starting the conversation, calling each other and making agreements about it. But if the Members of the European Parliament agree, then perhaps there is something to be said about the means of exerting pressure that the Chamber must be properly informed before the debate can take place. Or it could be decided to continue the debate despite the fact that there is no information. So that's what I stand for. That's what I included in my letter. I have that ambition. I know that's from all times. That was also said in the past, but I have made a commitment to do so. One point raised by several colleagues is the prestige of the Chamber. I believe that Mr Bishop, Mrs Keijzer, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van Ark have said something about this. The prestige of the Chamber, that's us. That's all of us, 150 MPs. Everything we display in this house in behavior is seen by civilians. All the cameras are on us, whether we're tweeting or making a difference to each other. That's the prestige of the Chamber. We all have a responsibility to make that reputation look good. Language plays an important role in this. Other factors also play a role: not only roughing up the language, but also politicians who do not always answer directly, but turn around. Sometimes I get e-mails from citizens when I've chaired them. That's what's bothering them. Of course, I understand better than anyone that in the heat of the debate emotions can sometimes get high and words can sometimes be exchanged. As President-in-Office of the Council, you hope that at that moment you will be ad brake enough to say, "Can you calm down a bit?', "that's not neat" or anything like that. It doesn't always work. I understand that very well. But that should also be possible. There's nothing wrong with emotions in the debate. A lot has also happened in the Netherlands, causing emotions to rise high. Everyone has the right to bring that forward. Of course, we have to accept that with each other and sometimes we have to think: be it so. It gets annoying when people get offended or hurt. I also say that it is important for me to say something about this if I were President of the Chamber, but I also know that colleagues are very often walking to the interrupting microphone and expressing their opinion on it. I'll give the space to that too, and I'll keep doing that. The point is that not only the President is going to correct people, but that we are also talking to each other about our behaviour. It is in our interests that the House should be treated in the same way. The example of "fake parliament" has been mentioned. That has been mentioned as an example. Mrs. Van Ark said something about that. Mr Kuzu also mentioned an example, I think that was the comparison with the past, with the war. That's when I intervened. Taking action means saying something, that's all it is. Freedom of speech is a great asset. Everyone here has been elected and everyone is entitled to that freedom and to say what they want. I would never, ever interfere with that. It's just something I've always carried along. For the past three years, I have never intervened and said that someone shouldn't say anything. Sometimes you say something like, "Well, this could have been a little quieter." That's all it is. Of course, there is also reference to the Rules of Procedure. I think it was Mr Bishop who said that very nicely. As chairman, you have the opportunity to suspend or take the floor, but I hope no one ever uses it. I'll always defend that. Qualifications are of all times. Sometimes they change with time. "Even dimming" was then a big problem in the Chamber, I understand. Mr Marijnissen has written a wonderful book about this. The same goes for "blasted fool" with Ella Vogelaar. She also wrote a book about it. Maybe there'll be a book about "fake parliament." The same goes for how we walk here. Everything's being seen. Hans Spekman's sweaters raised a lot of irritations among citizens, but there were also citizens who thought that was a great outfit. So it's sometimes relative, too. Voters also want to be able to recognize themselves in their elected representatives. It's supposed to be here, too. I respect that, too. I say to Mrs Van Ark: luckily it was broadcast, so you can see it again. I didn't say anything about freedom of speech at the time. I would never do that. I've also been asked about my style of chairing. I know almost everyone, only Mr Amhaouch of the CDA Group, because he was only installed yesterday. I can see him in the benches. My style is that I want to give Members of Parliament room to conduct the debate properly, to express their views and to ask questions. I always will. This does not mean that there can be endless meetings. From experience, I've learned to sense what can and can't be done. In a politically sensitive debate that the whole country is looking at, you cannot agree on a fixed number of interruptions in advance, because the information is also very important. We saw that the other day in the debate on the Bitch Deal, on the Oosting report. Then you can say: you may interrupt three times and nothing else. However, it is also important for the facts to come to the fore. Then it is also about information about "who, when and what time" and so on. Then I'll let you. I think it is very important that the President is as invisible as possible. That doesn't mean you can't steer, but you can lead without stepping into the foreground. That's my style. Of course, there are also debates in which a question is asked ten times, always in a different form. Then I say, and colleagues know that from me too: now it is done. That doesn't always make you popular, but that's also part of the presidency. A question has also been asked about the external representation of the Chamber. I have, of course, done so in recent years. A question has also been asked about the use of different languages. I speak different languages. I speak French. I also speak English; that was also asked for. I'm not Frans Timmermans. I'm just saying that honestly here. However, I am not Louis van Gaal either. So I'm in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u73	For years I have been a member of the Council of Europe on behalf of the Chamber. When speaking in English became too difficult for me, I switched to French and when speaking in French became too complicated for me, I switched to English. However, I am willing to go to the nuns. That's what I've always wanted. Maybe I will. In my role as Vice-President, I was able to replace Anouchka van Miltenburg on a number of occasions with regard to the reception of Heads of State. At least I received one head of state. But I also received others. Then you just speak English. It just goes in English. So far, I have not heard any complaints about this. However, I am always open to improvement. There were also questions about the organization. Mr Van Raak has asked a question about this, as has Mr Van Ark. They asked me if I had any management experience. I have been Secretary of the PvdA Group for almost a year and a half, with 85 employees. In this role, you also have to deal with collective bargaining and the participation council, which is also very important. I'd be happy to. That has gone very well so far. The proportions are also fine. Being secretary of the PvdA Group for a year and a half counts as having about five years of management experience. And, fortunately, the VVD Group seems to be. As a member of the Bureau, I am also very closely involved in the organisation of the Chamber. It was commissioned by the Bureau that the report of the ABD (General Administrative Service) was produced. This happened under the direction of Anouchka van Miltenburg. Many steps have been taken in this regard. There are real restructuring plans on the shelf. We've brought in three top people, and I've been closely involved with the application committees. This is very important. We have beautiful people who serve us. We have an official apparatus that is always ready for us, but the report also shows that it is a kind of family here. People work here for a long time and they enjoy doing so, but the political company also brings new questions. The organisation must also anticipate this. At the moment there is the task of eventually getting an organisation that is professional, flexible and business, without losing the beauty of this company. As President, of course, you are ultimately responsible. It is therefore also the responsibility of the President-in-Office of the Council to ensure that the changes actually take place. We have very good management members, who are doing very well, but in the end the President of the Chamber must realize it. I have every confidence that this is going to happen. There's been some loose questions asked, too. I have already answered Mrs Van Tongeren's question. There was a question from Mr Verhoeven about openness and transparency. I am in favour of openness and transparency. You really should only meet in private if there is no other way, for example if it affects people's privacy or personal information. Then you have to be careful with that, but my commitment is: as transparent as possible. The same goes for the Bureau. We have already taken steps in this direction, also thanks to the commitment of Mr Van Raak. I am not allowed to clap too much from the presidency, but decisions are made public and the agenda is published in advance. Perhaps we should look at the Bureau to see if it is possible to hold an open meeting, depending on the agenda. That is a possibility, but that is something that should be discussed in the Bureau. The point of the 30-member debates is very important. We currently have 68 majority debates and 57 thirty-something debates. That is also a constant discussion. It has to do with the willingness of colleagues to give something to other small groups in committee meetings. We often see that colleagues do not manage to arrange a general consultation at procedural meetings. Then the debate shifts to the plenary. So I would also like to call on all colleagues to be more generous in this. If we all think that there are too many 30 Members' debates, that also requires the coalition colleagues to be more flexible in this respect. I will discuss this with the chairmen of the committees to see if a solution can be found in the committees. In addition, you have more time in a general consultation and can be quickly scheduled. And you can always finish the debate here in plenary. It is a real problem. I think the number of interruptions was mentioned by Mr Bishop. Of course, it is important to be brief and powerful in this. That requires something from MPs. They must be brief and clear in their questions. It also requires something from the rulers. Not all of them, by the way, because I know exactly who is very wide of dust, falls into detail and often mentions examples, and who is brief and specific about the questions. I have an eye for that too. I often warn rulers, but I also give the room to colleagues who say at the end that their question has not been answered. They will then be able to raise them, and the ruler will not be allowed to leave until those questions have been asked. I'll see if I've answered all the questions. Maybe I forgot something. Mr Verhoeven, for example, had about eight questions, and I do not think I have answered them all. I'll find out when I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to see whether colleagues need to ask some enlightening questions about Mrs Arib's position. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u75	May I make one final comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u76	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u77	I am well aware that this is a difficult debate in which the President is elected. I hope that colleagues will choose the President whom they want most, because only then will a President be able to function properly. I hope my answers have shown where I stand. I hope that my answers will help colleagues to make a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u78	We are now going to listen to Mr Elias's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u79	Mr. Chairman. With a look at the clock, I, with your permission, will skip the general introduction, because there is still a lot to be done, including with the votes. I shall therefore go straight into what a number of speakers have said. I'm trying to do a few things thematically. I shall begin with Mr Bontes. He was short and clear. He didn't actually have any questions. His point of view was already clear. I don't agree with him, otherwise I wouldn't be standing here. Mr Bontes is a member of the Chamber. He has a right to say those things. He also has the right to say these things so firmly and clearly. I am also delighted to be his President, despite the fact that he is so critical. I think this is the way it should be in this house. I shall now turn to the personal side, because Mr Van Raak asked rather compelling questions about this. He sketched the impression that the President of the Chamber is a bit of a lamentable figure.... Van Agt has sometimes portrayed the Secretary of State............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think it's a wonderful job. I think it is a wonderful function, because it is at the heart of the possibility of influencing the debate. Mr Van Raak asked me: can you actually do that, because you are a stubborn man with clear opinions? I think a politician can have ideas, which I think is important, but he can keep them to himself if he serves another purpose, namely to have a good and lively democratic debate. Perhaps it is true that liberals are not enough to sell their ideals. Maybe that's why they're considered a little pragmatic. But liberals do have ideals. When I came here, one of my ideals was to reduce the waste of public money, which is another debate, and we will not talk about that now, to get the real debate back in Dutch culture. That is the debate that I have experienced more as a reporter than I have now, because I have been here for 20 years. I do not think it is right that we should be sitting here with seven men or women in blue seats and having a debate with strange abbreviations, in English and at the level of detail and asking official questions which the Minister then gives official answers to. That's not a debate. I think there should be a President who likes the debate and who loves democracy. I say it a little harsh, but that is how I really think it is shaping the debate. Of course I will not be able to do that overnight, but small steps are also important, as Mr Van Raak knows. I think that is the kind of ideals on which I would at least like to do that job. I fully respect that Mr Van Raak says: give my share to Fikkie; I would rather not do so. I'm fine with that. But, yes, I can, and I've proven it. I do not need to make it a secret that what I have said internally about requesting a debate by the Party for Animals about a single stork in the Netherlands, the stork Freedom, is a little rougher than the example Mr Bishop put to us to work out, but that is my personal opinion. I then sat here in the chair to chair that debate, and perhaps Mr Wassenberg can ask Mrs Thieme about it, and I have made sure that that debate was conducted properly, objectively and honestly. In fact, when one of my colleagues presented a 'festival motion', I said, because he made a mockery of the subject: no, if that is an important point for minorities in this Chamber, we must treat it seriously. And then we did. I make a big distinction between what I personally find, what I find as a VVD room member from that cake point and what I find there in that chair. I don't like it there, at least not that much. I have therefore written in my letter for a reason that the President of the Chamber cannot jump any further than the wriststick of a large majority of the Chamber is long. So that applies to a lot of questions that have been asked to me today. The President can find anything, private or at birthday parties, but not from that chair. The majority of the Chamber finds things. Let me give you an example: Mr Wassenberg, who said that the budget for supporting the Chamber would not be sufficient. You can think differently about that, so different even that for years I have disagreed with my own group. I have published a number of articles on this subject and I was called back by my colleague Mr Blok at the time. Well, you can do all that. If the majority of the Chamber thinks there should be more money for support, then the majority of the Chamber must establish that in the estimation. Then the Chamber then lays down that bill with the Minister of the Interior and, to put it bluntly, has to sign at the cross. So it is up to the Chamber and it is up to the President of the Chamber to implement the wish of the majority of that Chamber. That's the spirit. It's not about my casual opinion. That would not be a good thing either, because if there is a new President of the Chamber, the organisation will go in a completely different direction. I would like to point out, however, that it is technical that if you think that the research budget for Members of Parliament is too low, it is strange that it is left over every year. It's called in accounting terms, I believe, underexhaustment. There's always money left. I have always found it very strange that there is money left and, at the same time, everyone is right to say that there is little support. Maybe we should take another look at that. Then there is Mr Bishop's question about the example of a speech by a speaker who speaks of a brainless idiot. How do we feel about that? Well, it was laughed at when Mr Bishop set that example. So then it might actually be possible, but well, that's out of context. I think that you should at least abstract that and discuss it more in principle and in a general sense. In fact, there are three levels for a President of the Chamber. The first level concerns comments made by a colleague who is annoying you greatly as a member of this Chamber. It's a matter of freedom of speech. In this house, almost anything must be said. It may be that someone in this house is expressing an opinion that is very strongly disagreed about. For example, because it has been mentioned a few times, let me mention the statement about the fake parliament. If a statement is made that is very disturbing to other Members of this House, but which, in my opinion, is absolutely within the scope of freedom of expression, then I am in favour of the Verbeet doctrine, that one speaks to one another about it, that one asks one another about it and that one then discusses it with one another. I believe that the limit lies in statements here in the house that would lead to persecution outside this house, for example statements that lead to inciting hatred or discrimination in accordance with Article 137c and 137d of the Constitution. I think it would be a more or less objective criterion for the President of the Chamber to say something to those who make those comments. Even so, we have Article 71 of the Constitution, which gives absolute immunity. Everything must be said here in the house. That is true, but it is up to the President to guard certain limits of good decency and good taste, but also to keep an eye on inciting hatred. That is quite precisely set out in Rule 58 of our Rules of Procedure. Mrs Van Toorenburg also mentioned it. So that freedom of speech is there. It is a fact that it must be understood very widely, but the President of the Chamber must say something or even intervene in extreme cases. As far as I know, that only happened once in 1937. I was there that Mr Dolman, as President of the Chamber, threatened to do so and had his words taken back. He hasn't had the member removed yet. I think that this fits in with more than extreme restraint, but for the President, if there are words that go far beyond the example that Mr Bishop has presented to us, there can be reason to ask for words to be taken back or at least not to be repeated. But that's pretty far and that's not cut with a pair of scissors. If I were to be elected as your President, I would be very reluctant to do so, but these possibilities do not, of course, stand for nothing in our Rules of Procedure. Many questions have been asked about the provision of information to the Chamber. That is an issue which I am very concerned about. Those Members who have worked with me under the presidency of the temporary committee on ICT projects in the government know that as a Member of Parliament I was really white-hot in the political groups, they will probably confirm that if we were sent with a blink of an eye when it came to information. I have written rather spicy letters about this to ministers of a particular party color or a coalition cabinet, but I have nothing to do with it. The Chamber must be properly informed and the President of the Chamber will have to pay attention to this. I've been chasing it hard, with results. I will not allow myself to be cast aside if you choose me to be your President. Article 68 of the Constitution has been mentioned before. This important article doesn't stand for nothing. Only if the interest of the State is at stake can there be reason not to provide information. That must be a damn good reason and not some kind of pubess not to provide information. A question has been asked which has so far been given very little attention, while I think it is a small ticking time bomb that we should actually resolve quickly. It's about the cabinet formation. In the Chamber, an initiative law of the members Schouw and Van der Ham was adopted to limit the role of the King in the formation so that he no longer plays a role in the appointment of the informant, but that the Chamber itself does so. A minority of the Chamber voted against. This was already somewhat regulated by the motion Kolfschoten from 1971. This is for the state-law lovers who are undoubtedly also present here. An evaluation of the cabinet formation has been prepared. This is already from 9 December 2014, so 13 months ago. The aim is to draw up a protocol on what needs to be done. There is a role for the President of the Chamber. There is still a political discussion to take place. That dossier lies somewhere in some drawer between the Bureau and the Working Method Committee, I have the impression. I think we need to speed this up a lot. The cabinet could fall, but it could just sit the ride out. It's only been a year and then we'll have another cabinet formation. There's no protocol and nothing's arranged. I think that's unwise. On 1 February we have a new director of the Constitutional Process. I think he should start this right away and put something on the table in a couple of weeks. I will be happy to pick up on the further development as your chairman. I think we should not let this go so loosely. Questions have been asked about the role of the President in relation to management. I agree, once again, with Mrs Verbeet's view in her role as President, that as President of the Chamber, you should not play the director. That's not the part. The role is to defend the interests of the 150 Members of Parliament as well as possible. In constant conversation with the management of the Chamber, the President ensures that everything goes exceptionally well for the benefit of Members of Parliament. It is very special that the situation is that a new Registrar has taken office and two new directors have been appointed: a director of the Constitutional Process and a general director, so I call them just to avoid strange English terms. That little club needs to get caught up and have a lot of work to do. Two things have emerged from the Bureau and from the leadership of the previous President of the Chamber which are important to settle. A report was published by the General Administrative Service on 10 December 2014. I have never read a report that is so diplomatic on the one hand and contains such firm conclusions and recommendations on the other. If I become President of the Chamber, I will see if there are any obstacles to making it public. I believe it has been semi-public because it has been on a site of an or of the Chamber somewhere. I think all Members of Parliament should be able to take note of this. Its development is now taking place. Much needs to be done about which I will not go into detail. This must be done by the management team in consultation with the President, who is acting on behalf of the Bureau. I've been running a major international venture. That was interesting and I learned a lot from it. After that, I was an entrepreneur, that was something completely different. I had 15 staff and had to take care of everything myself. The finances had to be for each other, I've learned to read balance sheets, and more of that stuff. You should not interfere as President of the Chamber, but you must, together with management, make the wishes of the Chamber very clear and explicit. That should be very critical if there were reason to do so. All this must be done in good harmony. I think I can, but I'll certainly make demands. A question has been asked about the transparency of, among other things, the Bureau. I think you should cut it in three. The Bureau makes decisions similar to a company's strategy, one might say. You can't do that in public and with cameras, you can't. You can't talk about individual... no, let me not even mention what we should be deciding there. Nor can we talk about the security of the Chamber itself in public. That's a part that should just stay there and that should be treated confidentially. There is also a part that could easily be dealt with in public. One way or another, communication between the Working Method Committee on the one hand and the Presidium on the other hand is difficult. A motion was tabled last year during the discussion of the estimate, in order, inter alia, to ensure that the Working Method Committee meets publicly. Let us proceed with this motion very quickly, because that has not yet happened. The Working Method Committee could then work in public and a number of things that are now happening in the Bureau could then be done in the Working Method Committee. Then another part of the problem is solved. There's another part that's a little bit in between. It seems to me to be a good idea for the President of the Chamber to hold a brief press conference after the Bureau meeting and to explain what the meeting was about or explaining. I also think that after five or six times, the press' interest will be greatly reduced, because it is not as exciting as it is now what we are discussing at the Bureau. By the way, apart from one or two extremely hard collisions, there is very humorous and serious cooperation in the Presidium. That's what I wanted to say. There's been some kind of myth formation, but it's a little bit exaggerated. I have had a number of themes and I am trying to get through the questions, starting with those about the embargo regime. That's traditional rope pulling. In my view, the arrangements for the Millions' Note to be issued on Friday prior to Princess Day are considered to be workable by the political groups. It is, of course, indigestible that all kinds of information is published early in the paper. I can only repeat it to Mr Van Raak, Mr Wassenberg and Mrs Keijzer. That's not a good way to act; that's just not right. The President of the Chamber is therefore firmly committed to this in the direction of the Prime Minister. I will continue to do this as your possible President. I've been asked if I'll finish the term. Or was that a question to all of us that I had only perceived? Yeah, I'll finish the term. I will also be very happy to be a member of the Chamber again next time and, if necessary, to raise my finger in the election of a new President. I would like to be absolutely clear about the position of minorities. Making minority views audible is essential for a well-functioning democracy. I believe in the concept of democracy in which it is not the case that a majority of half plus one determines and no longer listens to minorities, especially in the particular country that is the Netherlands. Minorities are an essential part of our society. We need to listen to that. You don't need a majority of half plus one seat to push everything through. I sincerely believe that this view is justified by daily practice in this Parliament. In fact, that's very well arranged. A group with four seats has as much speaking time in general consultation as a group with 40 seats. That's very decently arranged. In the case of legislation, anyone can speak without limit. In my opinion, this has been done very neatly. I do not intend to make any changes to that, firstly because the Chamber must and must continue to respect minorities and secondly because the Presidency we are discussing today is a short period of time. I agree with Mr Van Toorenburg that we should not upset everything. I therefore do not intend to make any major changes at all. I would like to chair as well as possible, do the few things that still have to be settled, including the formation of the Cabinet, of course respect the representative commitments and ensure that we push as many debates as possible over time. They must be good and open debates, but perhaps they can be a little shorter if they are brought back to the main lines a little more than they are now. That is my priority, and I want to do so as your President. However, it does not seem logical to me to propose all kinds of major revolutions for that one year. That brings me to the electronic vote. I'm for that. By the way, I think you should do it in a very practical way. You should keep the normal votes as we do now, because that is faster than electronic voting. However, if we vote jointly and severally, which happens in an increasing number of cases, you could do so electronically. A secret ballot like the one we're about to see, which takes a little longer, could also be done electronically. Once again, however, I do not intend to do so in that year, even considering the costs. It costs 1 to 2 tons to make that possible. Then, two and a half years later, if we're going to remodel the whole thing here, I think it's a very strange investment to do that one-two-three now. As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue, but it is something that we could arrange sometime. A number of specific questions have been asked. Mr Kuzu has asked if I have any support for the staff and whether the official organisation should not be involved in electing a chairman. I'm not in favour of the latter. The support of the staff must always be demonstrated in practice. I worked extremely well with the staff twice, when I sat on the research committees on ICT and the Fyra. I was extremely positively surprised by a positive tweet by the chairman of the works council of this Chamber about my candidacy. So I guess it's the mustache with the support. I would like to resurrect Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure. I hope you agree with me on all of this. Well, that's decided! That article states that there will only be a meeting after 11 p.m. if at that time there is a majority in the Chamber. We never actually do that; we just go on, even if it's 01.00, 02.00 or 03.00. I think that's really weird. I think we should try together to be ready by 11 p.m. at the latest. In my opinion, that could actually be the case. I think I have answered all the questions as well as I can. I speak English and French; this is useful in international contacts. An important question was about blocking debates. One of the problems, which I also discussed in my letter, as well as the question of the interruptions, is that the President becomes more vulnerable by using non-formal rules and not investing everything with rules. The possibility of criticizing the President is greater. The chairman will then make choices. Mr Bishop had a wonderful theoretical example, let me also give one. Suppose an event such as that in Cologne would have occurred here in the Netherlands and that police action would have been obscured here too, and that a debate on this would be requested in the course of the work. Suppose a majority of 76 Members of Parliament would say that there is no need to debate this, whereas all the other parties in the Chamber would like to do so and would consider it necessary. I believe that, as President, you should simply draw your own line and plan the urgent debate requested on the basis of the political weight and social topicality. You have to do that for reasons of principle, because such a large part of the Chamber really wants it and, quite frankly, a little for practical reasons, because otherwise, in two, three, four or five arrangements of work, you will eventually be pushed through the pump. Why would you do that to yourself as president? The downside is that as chairman, you make choices and become vulnerable. That's right. The advantage of this is that minorities in the Chamber will say less quickly that they feel isolated. Again, it won't always be like this. You have to weigh that. It is not for nothing that I wrote in my letter that you cannot make everyone happy by debate, content or procedure. Objectivity should be measured over the year. You can't cut that with scissors every week. That is my view on blocking debates. Too many motions and too many urgent debates is indeed a political view which I have, and which I should leave sitting in that chair. If a Member of Parliament thinks it's important to file a motion, he should. In the end, the Chamber is making it very difficult for itself, because of course it is becoming huge series and the individual importance of these motions is decreasing. However, if the Chamber so wishes, it must do so. The President-in-Office of the Council is not about that. That's really up to the Chamber itself. Again, that view I had and I have left at home if I was sitting there in that chair. That's the way it's supposed to be. With this I hope to have answered all the questions, but that does not seem to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u80	We're gonna see that now. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren. Then I come to Mr Van Vliet, Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u81	We heard Mr Elias explain that smaller groups are sufficiently served in the debates, because in AO's and legislative submissions large and small groups have the same speaking time. What about representation in, co-thinking and talking along with and reporting back from the Bureau?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u82	As I know, the small groups are represented through other members of the Bureau and can always provide their input. So far, the Chamber has felt that it is not wise to sit in the Bureau with 15 members. To be honest, that does not seem to me to be such a very good and workable way of doing things either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u83	As it is now regulated, smaller groups are often represented by a larger group. However, pre-consultation and concrete feedback are currently not possible because of the confidentiality arrangements in the Bureau. The minutes shall only be received by the chairman of the political group and shall be signed. A discussion in the group on what she thinks of a particular point and whether she wants input and consultation with the one who represents a smaller group on how the discussion went and whether any of her points have been raised is not possible at the moment. Does Mr Elias wish to continue this in exactly the same way, or does he see the possibility of involving smaller groups more effectively in the work of the Bureau?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u84	If we can think of ways in which, without extending the Bureau, we can meet Mrs Van Tongeren's objection, I am very prepared to think about it. However, I would really be against it, and I don't think I'm just trying to make the Presidium even bigger than it already is. It must remain a workable organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u85	I would like to answer two more questions that I have asked. The first concerns Mr Elias' comments in his letter on the scope of the abuse of interruptions in two parts. My point is that MPs are about their own answers. Vak-K can be expected to get an answer anyway. However, as a Member of Parliament, I decide for myself what my answer is, even if I do not say anything. I'd like to hear another reaction to that. My other question is very specific. If I have 30 seconds of speaking time in a VAO and I am reading a motion, which I might already think is going to make it, Van Vliet can do that sometimes, Mr Elias will let me finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u86	The answer to the second is yes. If Mr Van Vliet comes forward with five motions, we both understand that it is not going to work. However, if he has one motion and can't cram in those 30 seconds, he won't hear me drop the hammer at second 31. Besides, I didn't do that the last time it happened. That was 56 seconds, to be exact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u87	It was a brilliant motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u88	With regard to the other question, Mr Van Vliet simply has a point. I mean to say, I assume that Mr Van Vliet will agree with me that from this place, subject-K, very regularly a long story, often officially prepared, is held in which little is said, you make sound but you say nothing, I shall say nothing, and that it should not and should not be possible. There's gotta be real answers. If Mr Van Vliet means that he wants to decide what to say from the chair as a Member of Parliament himself, I understand that. It may, however, be that he himself comes up with a reply twice, which he himself knows is of no use to another Member of Parliament. He's not supposed to tell me what I think he should say as chairman. Absolutely not. But if it is demonstrably clear that someone simply does not answer the question, then as President I cannot say to the other: you have asked twice now, sit down because it is done with the story. Because that trick is being abused, too. We are all witnessing this. We all see this happening, and I do not think we want it to happen. But I will not smother Members as President of the Chamber in the content of their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u89	That has been answered enough for Mr Van Vliet. That is why we are going to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u90	In his letter, Mr Elias stated that he considered the authority of the Chamber to be important. He has just said in his speech that he will not interfere with other MPs as president, unless it concerns Article 137c and d of the Criminal Code, which is about inciting hatred or violence. I'm trying to rhyme those two. If that is the only argument, then it would mean that we could go around calling each other names here all the time without inciting hatred or violence. I hope, however, that Mr Elias also thinks that this body should have a certain authority and that we should have an exemplary role for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u91	Sure. That is why I have also said that the President should at least say something and that Article 58 on good taste is not there for nothing, but you cannot say that in this word and in that context I will do it and I will not do it. There is certainly a role for the President, but if Members continue to say the same thing, they feel that that is their right and do not go over the line in the sense that they say things that are insulting or inciting hatred, then the President only has a horse's tool and that is to silence someone. With the use of that horse medicine, you must be extremely reluctant as chairman. That's what I meant to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u92	Then it would not have been as square as I thought it would have been, namely that Mr Elias as President would only intervene at the time when Rule 137c or d would be on the agenda. That is not the case. The second question is this. Mr Elias said something about the speaking time of small parties. He was referring to AO's. He said, "I will reassure you; I will not do it now." But I can see in Mr Elias's words that he is inclined to do so, should he be given a second term. Is my gut correct? Should smaller groups fear that they will only have 30 seconds or 1 minute of speaking time in AO's? Then I'd like to hear it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u93	Firstly, Mr Voordewind has to judge me on what I am saying for this period and I say: I am not getting there. This period is too short. We're not gonna mess things up. He would have to make that possible consideration in the event of a subsequent election. That's fair. Secondly, Mr Voordewind should not make it a caricature. He talks about 30 seconds or one minute in an AO, while I have just mentioned the example that a group with 40 seats has exactly the same speaking time as a group with 4 or 2 seats or even 1 seat in those AOs. I think I can say that. I also think that I can use that as an argument to say that if it is said here that the position of minorities would deteriorate or be bad in parliament, then that is not in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u94	I'm also looking for a rhyme. I had asked a question about this during my contribution. It was about the sentence that Mr Elias included in his letter on the informal rules on the one hand. On the other hand, he often talks about the mores in the Chamber. I had asked him to explain exactly what those mores are in the House of Representatives, so that we can take into account the mores of Mr Elias when he becomes president.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u95	Whatever the mores are, you have to feel a little bit. You can't make a big book that says: these are the mores, and article 7c, mores a. But let me give you an example. I am not in favour of it, but if, in a big debate under pressure of time, we all agree to watch the clock a little bit and do a total of five interruptions in two, and if you are a very small fraction separated from another group, then I think it is one of the mores of the house that it does not matter to come up to the interruptive microphone: I am entitled to five interruptions in two; so those are ten questions; they are all about this one subject and I am now going to put all ten questions to that ruler. I don't think that's part of the house's mores. You gotta feel that a little bit. I can't put that in a big, fat book on page 742.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u96	But it is the essence of the presidency that is at stake here. We have a Constitution in which we have agreed with each other that we have certain ways and rules. As far as I am concerned, the most important rule is that individual Members of Parliament are equally entitled to what Mr Elias cites in his example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u97	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr. Elias says "of course," but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u99	We'll take turns. Mr Kuzu asks his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u100	...he does see in his response that he considers those mores to be such that he wants to distinguish between individual MPs. How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u101	I think I just answered that question. If you're dealing with what you're seeing, I don't think you've felt right about how it works here. The formal answer is, of course, more annoying, but I will not use it at all. Rule 57 has been quoted today for a reason: 'The President may allow interruptions'. So he can't let them either. "Interruptions should consist of short comments or questions without introduction." It is simply not useful for the debate in this House, nor for the persuasiveness of these interruptions if they consist of two or three minutes of self-inflicted intervention. I think a lot of Members really do. It will only improve the debate. Mr Kuzu really has to accept that from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u102	I think the President is not going to allow any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u103	You have correctly assessed the mores of this chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr Elias wishes to wake up Rule 47 (2) of the Rules of Procedure: we must decide by majority to hold a meeting after 11 p.m. My experience is that this has happened on a regular basis and that it is said: we have to go through, because we have to go through all that legislation. The majority, the coalition, at that time simply has the power to push forward, while Mr Elias points out that the question is how to achieve careful legislation by not going on for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u105	I have already referred to the fact that I have experienced Mr Dolman as a great President of the Chamber in the years that I have followed it here, not day and night, but every day as a young parliamentary reporter. Mr. Dolman just dropped the hammer at 11:00 p.m. It even happened once when someone was halfway through his sentence when the hammer fell. The next day, at 10:15, they continued. I certainly will not do that that extreme, but I do think that we should all try to stop here at a little bit of a normal time and come up with a little shorter interruptions and a bit more lively debate. I agree with Mr Klein that it is unwise to pass legislation. Freule Wttewaall van Stoetwegen once said "gentleman, this is madness" when it turned 2:30 in the night. I think that is unwise; I am not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u106	So I understood that and I appreciate that very much. I also think it is a good starting point for the hammer to fall at 11 a.m. unless that is where the article on "the majority decides to proceed." The question is exactly how you actively deal with that majority when you refer to former Chamber Chairman Dolman, who just dropped his hammer, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u107	I think there would also be that majority if that were to become a habit. So I would simply like to bet on that. It's gonna go wrong sometime, no doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you very much. I see that there are no further questions to Mr Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u109	I had one afterburner myself; Mrs Arib also had one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u110	You may absolutely; go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u111	I have already written in my letter that I would greatly appreciate it if the Members of Parliament would look at the content of my arguments and judge me on the content of my arguments and not on all kinds of ghost stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u112	Finally, we are going to listen to Mr Bosma's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr. Chairman. Now I'm gonna tell some of those ghost stories. Mr President, I know that I speak on behalf of all the candidates today when I say that we are very happy that you are not joining today, because you would be a very formidable opponent. Button that in your head, I'd say. I understand there's a vacancy. It's nice to have a word with the application board today. I understand someone's wanted for a short period of time, just over a year. This morning, Madame Registrar installed a group app for this meeting. I immediately proposed that as a compromise, every candidate should be responsible for a quarter, but I cannot get my hands together for that. Mr Bishop said that today we may be electing the shortest possible president. Every president is made of a painting that is at least one and a half meters high, so it's life-size. Perhaps now we should have a picture made of postcard format and if the cabinet falls perhaps in stamp format. I don't know, but we have to take that into account. Mr Van Vliet is prepared to vote for me, I think he is still the only floating voter tonight, provided he has more speaking time. Well, done!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u114	Yeah, you're either a politician or you're not. Mr. Bontes doesn't like all the candidates. I seem to have turned off the microphone once. I don't remember that, but it won't be the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr Verhoeven has invited four people. Three of them have appeared. That was because I had seen the text too late, but I also know that I had that group long and wide in the pocket and that it was not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u116	Today's proposal is, of course, from Mr Krol. I see now that he is out of the Chamber for a moment, but he wants a chairman who is not a member of any political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u117	It's for a short time. I think I can get going pretty fast. Mr Van Vliet (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Vliet on his excellent report. I'll do it in one word: experience. I can bend on a lot of experience. I've been Vice President for six years. I've actually been in the Bureau for ten years; that's deducted from pre-trial detention, I say to the prison director. I was allowed to serve under two presidents. I'm not going to promise anything today - politicians are doing too much - but I'm going to tell you what I've been doing all these years as a zzp'er and why I'd like to be eligible for a permanent employment in your chair, Madam President. I've been in the Chamber for six years, man, with the hammer. What I am aiming for in that chair is quite simple: I want to make the story visible. The contradiction that exists, the contradiction in the debate, I want to show. Once upon a time, a long time ago, I was a first-year politician and had to learn by heart what "political" is, namely "the articulation of social, political and social contradictions at state level." That's just the way it is: as long as those contradictions are visible. If they need to be visible somewhere, it's right here, in this room, right here on the floor. If we all succeed in this, we'll do it right. If I am a good chairman, I will succeed in making that debate visible. When leading the debates, I hold on to the adage of President Weisglas, who said: 'It can be more effective, it can be shorter, it can be more flashy and it can be more attractive'. As Mr Van Vliet, whom I am going to address very much, said: 'Otherwise people are going to zap'. That's right. There is no record that debates should last until the middle of the night. Nor is it the case that long debates are better than short ones. Of course, we always have to take our time. It is often very important and far-reaching legislation, but I would like you to be able to get home in time or to chair your blessed work elsewhere in this building. Some debates start to look like Groundhog Day; you know, that's the movie in which the main character experiences the same day over and over again. I'd like to make sure that the words "The end" appear in the picture. Some members seem to have a private life. If I have to choose between a debate that has become endless or a debate after which you can read to the children at home, I would like to give you the second. That is why I like to keep it tight, but at the same time, because we should not take ourselves too seriously and also because I like to stick to what President-in-Office Van Thiel said: 'The Rules of Procedure are more of a guide than a straitjacket'. I very much agree with him that the Rules of Procedure are for us and not the other way round. A good example is the initiative law of Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van Tongeren. That was about Sunday shopping. If you look at the Acts, you will see that the SGP was talking a lot there, perhaps much more than was justified by the rules. But that was the contradiction in the debate. I whistled to the game and so it became exciting and that contrast became visible. The debate must be sharp and pointy. I love the British Parliament very much, hard but fair, blunt but with irony, sometimes tough language, rarely boring. Mrs. Van Ark wants a Christmas speech already. Mine would be: what have we had many such debates this year? That is the art of presidering, as President-in-Office Dullert said in the nineteenth century, if we all succeed in that. I do not have any, but I do not have any, judgement on the content of what is being said. I shall deal only on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just a robot. There's only one thing on my hard drive, and that's the Rules of Procedure. Mr Van Raak is quite right to say that the President should not have an opinion. Nor does the President have an opinion. All of you, members of the selection committee, are today electing a President to chair you for many thousands of hours. I think it is right for you to choose the person you think is best, where you feel the most comfortable, who keeps the momentum in it and above all who lets you come to your senses and also ensures that it does not become night work every day. At least as important as what the President is doing is what is happening behind the scenes. The President leads the Bureau and is part of the management team of the Chamber which directs our beloved chamber company, accounting for 600 employees. Those are people who make sure that we can do our job. Mr Verhoeven says it is not cozy in the Bureau. I completely disagree with him. It's been very relaxed lately. That is what other speakers have said. As Vice-President, you form a troika with the President and the other Vice-President, under Mrs Verbeet, that Willibrord van Beek, under Mrs Van Miltenburg was Mrs Arib. That means you have to consult threes very frequently. You are often a first point of contact, especially if something happens outside the regular presidency meeting. For example, I was allowed to experience all the crises and challenges of recent years and often had to take a decision immediately. "Martin, could you come to the President for a moment?" "Yeah, I'm fine." "Can we do that this afternoon?" "Well, I'd rather be in two minutes." "Yes, Annette, I'm coming." It means the phone sometimes goes at 9:15 in the evening. The name of the President shall appear in the screen. Then you know, something's wrong with the marble, headlines are coming up. Vice-Presidentship also means that I often observe the duties of the President during the recesses. I know that many of you have been driving extra relaxed on an airbed in the Mediterranean because they knew that parliamentary democracy was in my firm hands. After the last election, I was equally acting President. I then led the major debates, about the elections, about the formation. I was allowed to call the head of state about the outcome of the debate and I was allowed to hand over the informers, Mr Bos and Mr Kamp. It was the first time that the Chamber did so and so I became part of parliamentary history. Thank you for that. The Chamber owes Mrs Van Miltenburg a great deal of thanks. I think there have been few Presidents who have started as many changes as they have in a short time. Holy houses were killed by bushes. We have chosen, under her presidency, to review the entire administrative organisation in the Bureau. That resulted in the ABD report. This has confirmed what many of us have already suspected, namely that there is late maintenance. A completely new summit with a different task was chosen. I was allowed to sit on the application committee for the new Registrar. For the first time in history, we attracted someone from outside. You will agree with me that we have made a great choice. A new Head of Business and a Director of the Constitutional Process will be published shortly. I was also able to select them. We have a new head of IT and a new head of Information. These are five new people at the head of the official organisation and the official summit. I'm happy to ensure a political continuity in that story. The first fruits of this new set-up are already evident and will have a direct effect on our daily work as a Member of Parliament. The first beginning of the many changes is there and that must be continued. I hope, and I am committed to doing so, that we can free up funds for or perhaps transfer them to the primary process of all of us, to the essence of what we are doing: controlling the government. Perhaps more money could also go to the political groups. Perhaps more could go to Bureau Legislation or the BOR, which directly supports our work. That is also an answer to Mr Wassenberg's question. I am proud to have been able to represent the Chamber on many occasions. I've done a lot of representation of the Chamber. And no, Mr Krol, I have never heard a negative word about my party. On behalf of the Chamber I laid wreaths at commemorations of Buchenwald, the Orange Hotel, the Battle of the Java Sea and Market Garden and, this summer, at the Indian Remembrance. I attended independence celebrations on behalf of the Chamber. I'm ready for my third American ambassador. Many conference I have been allowed to open and many reception I have managed to lift to a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u118	I also represent the Chamber at the IPC of the Language Union, for which I may often be in Brussels. Shall I receive Erdogan, Juncker or Timmermans? Yes, of course. The EU Presidency? Beautiful. I'm happy to do it. I have long been internally involved as Vice-President in the preparation. I'd be happy to take care of the execution. I come to the management experience. I am a ten-year secretary of my group, including the two years for the Wilders Group. I understand that it counts twice for the Labour Party if you are the group secretary, but if you are the group secretary of the Wilders Group, that counts tenfold. I was once the statutory director of the Dutch Radio Group. I have managed it successfully, albeit towards bankruptcy, but those are the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u119	This is also an answer to Mr Verhoeven's question about my management capabilities. In this context, Mr Van Raak asked a question about people in permanent employment. Yes, of course, because I think the family feeling is very important. I'd be happy to give the staff the credit it deserves. If Jan de Niet leaves on the last day before Christmas, I salute him: not once, but twice. Ridiculous! But he worked here for 42 years, so I was happy to do that. Nel Pellerin's leaving. On January 21st is her farewell. She worked here for 35 years. If the orphan children of a deceased chamberlain appear here, I will put them in the President's Lodge and address them. They can show that the next day on YouTube and have a world day. Unfortunately, I also come to funerals a lot. What do I want with the room? I want more attention and respect for the independent role of the Lower House of States General. What are we doing here on Earth? Why are we in this building? Well, we control the government. That is our core activity. Marga Klompé said that the Lower House must be a counter player and a guard of government power. Absolutely! By definition, a parliament never gets the power. From 1815 we had to fight for our spot under the sun. We were born a lamb and our lion power, as a natural opponent of the cabinet, we had to conquer little by little. The Chamber must be as it is intended to be. The celebration of dualism is in the interests of all of us. That has nothing to do with opposition or coalition. That has to do with who we are and what we do in this building. I think we have had too much to celebrate in recent years. Mr Bishop asked: how are we going to cage the lion? It shouldn't be caged at all. The lion must go freely into the field and show his teeth. Article 68 of the Constitution deals with the obligation to provide information. It's a duty. It is Parliament's most important right of control. Without good information, we cannot control properly. Here's what I'm gonna find out. We're asking questions, aren't we? We'll get answers, too. But that's what it's all been said very often. They often seem to be written by the "little in the reed" department. See the file "MH17" and "Mr Maat" and a large number of other files. We're getting answers way too late. We're getting documents way too late for meetings. Or the answers are incomplete. Or in debates we find that we still lack a lot of information. We'll get them, but we can't control them. There's a leak. From mid-July the good news show breaks out. That puts the Chamber at an enormous disadvantage. We cannot base ourselves on anything except things in the newspaper. We must act hard on that. If necessary, we must call the Prime Minister to the Presidium. It doesn't matter. In debates, ministers often answer with you-bricks. Or regiments have prepared to explain that our electoral programmes are not good either. That's interesting to hear, but we're here to judge the cabinet and not the other way around. I think a cabinet should fall into the Chamber if it falls. This is where it has to be done. The same applies to outgoing directors. They have to come here and say goodbye. We shall do so in all courtesy. Someone who's fallen, we're not gonna kick it, but I like it when it happens here. There is a political scientist who says that the major issues that directly, deeply and sustainably affect citizens have not been explicitly addressed by the Chamber in recent years, decades. These are, for example, the unification of Europe, the liberalisation of financial markets and privatisations. That should be at the heart of all of us. We need to make sure that we remain relevant. The contradictions in society have to articulate themselves here, in the Lower House, on this floor. If it doesn't happen here, it won't happen anywhere. And in the end, we have a means of power. We can talk to ministers and we can invite them. If necessary, we can make it clear that the cabinet needs the parliament to have laws passed. We can also stop those laws. Let's not be so afraid of that nuclear option. If things get out of hand, we just have to do it, just like we have to be tough on guarding our own budget. No one else is talking about that. I would also like to stand up for individual Members of Parliament who see their opinions shrouded. Between Christmas and New Year's a book by one of our colleagues was burned on Dam Square in Amsterdam. That was the book by colleague Van Bommel. I think that's a huge shame for us as a room. One newspaper wrote something about that. No one was angry about it and nobody noticed. I don't think that's possible; not even because it happens 50 meters away from our National Monument, but because you don't burn the books of MPs. This is how we are hindered in our work. If I had been President of the Chamber, first of all, I would have made a statement in the press. Secondly, I had just called the mayor in question: "Mr Van der Laan, how could such a thing happen? This must not be allowed to happen; we must not allow this to happen." I would also ask if measures are being taken. I would also intervene, or at least let you hear from me, if MPs were thwarted on missions abroad. Some Members do not have enough support when it comes to their personal security. It is quite normal nowadays to threaten MPs, but the security of individual members must be a constant concern, including of the President of the Chamber. The same applies to safety in this building in general. It has to be much higher on the agenda. Playtime's over. Many asked about minorities. We're all a minority. I used to be of a small fraction. It became a large fraction and then it became a small fraction again. From that you can learn that there is a huge difference in workload, in budgeting and in what you can do. I think it is a matter of honour to always stand up for those minorities. I'll do the same if I'm allowed to lead the debates here. Yes, it is absolutely true that large parties, if you convert it, have much more speaking time. Indeed, but the small parties do much less debates. You can almost cross that out against each other. So I don't have a huge problem with that. Debates must not be blocked and motions must be tabled. Once or twice, I apologize, Mr Sjoerdsma........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I only do that when almost everyone thinks so. Otherwise, you don't have to do it. It shouldn't be a small majority. I remember Mr Slob calling me once when I was acting chairman. There was something about a motion that wasn't carried out properly. I said, "Oh, that's about the children's general, isn't it? No, child shelter, Mr Slob improved me. I called the State Department and went after it. I have also used exactly Mr Slob's terminology: it was about child asylum. That's how you do justice to those minorities, I think. You gotta stand up for that. Language is also very important. I'm happy to commit myself to understandable Dutch. I'm confused with jargon and abbreviations. Sometimes, when I get to preside over a debate on financial matters, I think I've ended up in a cult that I'm not a member of. I really don't know what it's about, and I'm a financial journalist from home! I worked on Wall Street, but it's really Chinese for me. I understand that you do not have a one-two-three Dutch translation of "multi-currency default swap," but I think you should try to make sure that the people who follow the debate at home can understand it a bit. The same applies to English. With my colleague Elias, I am running a small guerrilla against the word 'pilot'. Once upon a time there was a liberal, Mr Roëll in 1893, who asked for a Dutch translation, because he said: the Acts go almost entirely in English nowadays. They also asked about the languages we speak. I'm willing to do a multiple-choice test, Mr. Chairman, if you have time. I lived in New York for four years. That's where they speak English. I graduated there once more. I also studied in Paris. One of my major breakthroughs as a Member of Parliament is that Le Figaro is in the Members' Restaurant. I think I'm the only one who reads it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u120	You were referring to a multiple choice question, weren't you? Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u121	Sorry, Chairman, you're too hard on this job. Now I understand why you're not a candidate. We talk about the language in the Chamber every time. Mrs Verbeet has called us to speak a little more street language. There is a language sociologist who says that language generally informs. You weren't allowed to use the word "nonsense" here until the fifties. I think there are few debates these days where the word 'nonsense' does not apply. Article 50 of the Constitution goes back to the Batavian era. We represent the entire Dutch people, and that means that what happens outside must also be done here. In 99.99% of the debates in this house, there is no unspeakable word. It is suggested that it used to be a gentile society here and that it now consists purely of fish bitches, but it is not. Find out what farmer Braat did in the 1920s. He walked through the plenary room screaming and cursing. He tore up the speech in front of the minister. Henk Sneevliet produced 61 "likes," as they are called. They were taken out of the Acts. I'm not so afraid of a more raw language, but I don't like fence words. I always say something about that. I'll do that to regiments who are guests of ours, when you could tolerate a little more of them. I'll do it to groupmates, too. Sometimes I let something pass. I once passed on the word "cowardice" of a Member of Parliament to a minister. In retrospect, I think that might have been a little too rude, even because it was spoken to a guest. All kinds of people are asking today: give us exactly where the border is. There's no precise limit. The border is, of course, very flexible. Fortunately, we have Rule 56 of the Rules of Procedure: make a personal statement. What is offensive is very personal; so come forward. For example, Mr Bishop went completely loose with a case. He presented it as a great insult. The whole room was then in a dent. I'd say, come up with insults like this more often. What can you say in this room? I heard all kinds of suggestions, such as Article 137 of the Criminal Code and the Constitution. I sit on that chair like a robot and on my hard drive there's only one thing and that's just the Rules of Procedure. There are all kinds of reasons why you shouldn't talk to someone. These are matters such as insult, disorder, failure to observe secrecy or inciting unlawful acts. There are no more flavors. That's what I'm going to do, and that's very simple. Mrs Kuik says that in the past I have spoken with contempt about Parliament. That's incorrect. As spokesman for the Interior, I have been speaking with great love about our States General for many years now. I think I'm the only Dutchman who thought about our birthday last Saturday: 1464. We have written and made history for centuries. We have made peace and declared wars. We were involved in exploring and founding cities and peoples. We translated the Bible and have codified our language. We have also written the most revolutionary writing in the history of the West, namely the Act of Abandonment. Some parliamentarians love this Parliament so much that they are concerned about its representativeness and thus its legitimacy. It is stated that the relations in parliament do not correspond to those in society. There's a difference of opinion here than outside. That could mean, in the long term, that people would turn away from parliament. Many have done so in the past, last but not least Mr Geert Wilders. He put a word in it. Mr Verhoeven asked for that. The accusation about the representativeness of this Parliament goes back a long time. In fact, D66 is built on it, the apple of D66 from 1966 is always built on it by my group. Van Mierlo's claim was: lack of representativeness. Van Mierlo has said a great many things about this. Mr Wilders' opinion is shared by a lot of people, 40% of the Dutch population. If we say that we represent the Dutch people as a whole under Article 50 of the Constitution, that 40% must also be spoken here. If this happens with a word that you can perceive as very hard, then so be it. I won't intervene in that. I think we should listen carefully to what's happening outside. A parliament that is fooled by the Constitution, for example by not listening to Article 50, is a parliament that no longer takes itself seriously. A parliament that does not want to represent 40% of the population is no longer a serious parliament. A parliament that is going to ban words is no longer a real parliament but a scared parliament. Professor Oud, the founder of the VVD, said: "The Second Chamber is not a nursery." Colleagues who are looking for a nanny or a governess today, I strongly recommend not to vote for me. I'm not, and I won't be. A parliament that is afraid of the debate, which is afraid of the opinion of 40% of the population, is essentially a parliament that craves its own superfluousness, according to its own irrelevantness. I am grateful for half of the 80,000 voters on Telegraaf.nl who see me as chairman and for the support at RTL News and all other support. I call Hans Wiegel, Jeroen Pauw and Jos Heymans. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I also mention the chief of the newspaper Trouw, the director of the Netherlands Debate Institute. I'm sure those people don't all vote for my party. I have often heard: Martin, you are an excellent chairman, but what a pity that you are a member of that group. If I had received €100 for each of these comments, I wouldn't have been applying here today, but then I would have enjoyed the pleasant winter weather in the south of France in my own villa. But I'm here, and that's a huge pleasure, too. I would like to draw colleagues' attention to three points. First of all, I want that $100 from now on. The first point is that I have sworn you all in. You have sworn allegiance to the Dutch Constitution before me. Article 3 of the Dutch Constitution states that all Dutch citizens can be named on an equal footing in public service. There's a dot and there's no comma. There is also no support for "of course that does not apply to the PVV's tokkies." From Mr Van der Staaij I once learned the constitutional adage 'the closer to the Crown the less party man'. That has something to do with ministers and certainly not with Presidents of the Chamber, but the attitude, the attitude expressed in that fine sentence, is precious to me, namely total neutrality. I've been showing that in that chair all these years. I'm 100% not a party man there. I've never been there, and I never will be. There's something in front of the door, framed, against discrimination. Many parties are quite right to talk about this emotionally. What we are proposing to this society, namely that we are against discrimination, must also be respected internally. We must therefore be against discrimination in the workplace. Finally, in previous debates in which we elected a President, several participants, Mr Van Raak, Mrs Sap and Mrs Ouwehand, said that it should be the best. I think that's very correct. It seems to me to be the only consideration. We're not here today to judge each other's election program. Party color is completely irrelevant. The closer to the Crown, the less party man. All that matters is the ability to chair the Chamber's meetings firmly and to carry out the other tasks of a President. If you think I'm doing the right thing, just vote for me. If not, I would like to refer you to one of the other three outstanding candidates. The vote is classified. No one will find out, not even your group leader. If I am not expecting it, I will be with great dedication to assist the new President in the coming year, wherever I can. Mr. Chairman. I am now "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u122	Like all candidates are. Mr Bosma, before you sit down, there is another question from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u123	I thank Mr Bosma for his comprehensive answer to many questions. He did that in the well-known cheerful, funny and sharp way. I have not received an answer to one question: will Mr Bosma be President of all Members of Parliament, regardless of their background and passport? I'd like to get his answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u124	I believe that Mr Verhoeven has asked so many questions that none of the candidates has answered more than half of his questions. To return to this question: of course, with all my heart and soul, absolutely. There is only one President of the Second Chamber of the States-General and he is President of all 150 Members of Parliament. In my time as azzp'er in that chair, I think I have shown that I always am, that I always stand up for everyone, that I do not favour people and that I do not defy people, except for members of my own group, but I learned that from Mr Wilders. That is how I have worked, and that is how I, as your President, will do so in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr Bosma says: I am a robot when I sit in that chair, I have no opinion. On the other hand, he says: I am not going to take anyone's measure here, even if Parliament is being slandered. Previously, the term "fake parliament" has been mentioned. Can he tell us how, when he becomes President, he will deal with his own group leader when he undermines Parliament once again and the credibility of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u126	I'm gonna kick everybody's ass. That's what I've always done. I am a robot, because I just have the Rules of Procedure on my hard drive. I have just read out the reasons why someone should not speak: insulting, inciting extrajudicial behaviour. The term you just used is not included. I'm not afraid of the word either. I love the British Parliament. Let's have a good chat around here. Let us have hard debates: the harder, the better. That's good for the ratings, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u127	There is something more than the ratings, namely the credibility of this Parliament and the image that we have as an example to the rest of the country. Mr Bosma actually says: no matter what we say to each other here, and if something like that happens, someone will be able to make a personal statement. But my question was about credibility, image and respect for the institution of parliament. Does he intend to maintain the image if it is violated here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u128	Of course, I am trying to uphold that image, but Members of Parliament must ask themselves how our credibility is more served. Has it served our credibility as an opinion shared by 40% of the people who pay our salaries and perhaps vote for us, out of order? Or is our credibility served if everything here can be said unless we really are rude and use fence words, break the law or use force? That's a question, but you understand what my answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr Wilders said the word 'fake parliament' on behalf of the Wilders Group. For me, it is important to know whether it will be possible for the House of Representatives to elect a President who is also of this opinion. Does Mr Bosma also think that he will be President of a fake parliament, or does he have a different opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u130	I think I know that these words were not spoken by the Wilders Group, because they left us in 2006. I just confessed my love for the Dutch Parliament and went back 552 years for that. That's my answer to that. Furthermore, I repeat, I am a robot, not an opinion on what people are saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u131	That's a bit of a procedural answer. I am simply curious whether Mr Bosma will agree that he is President of a fake parliament. That is important to know, because he is our President and represents us. So I ask Mr Bosma once again: does he share Mr Wilders' opinion, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u132	I have just confessed once again my love for the Dutch Parliament. And yes, that's procedural, but me and my three fellow candidates are sitting here with one buttock on that chair. Mrs Keijzer speaks to me as President-in-Office of the Council, so I will also reply as President-in-Office. The answer is a procedural one, because Mrs Keijzer cannot demand another reply from a President. It is not up to a President to comment on texts by Members of Parliament. We shouldn't want that, all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u133	This is quite fundamental, isn't it? In his view, Mr Bosma is a robot as President, but he is still a candidate for President. For the moment, it's just important whether he shares this qualification or not. I think we all want to know, because we're going to have to fill out names later. I simply think it is important for Mr Bosma to say 'yes' or 'no' with clarity, with humour, much appreciated. Does he share the words of Mr Wilders or does he not share them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u134	Because in the first intrusion there was confusion about the name of the group, I allow this third.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u135	The answer is as clear as the previous times. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u136	I interpret that as follows: as President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Bosma distanced himself from the term 'fake parliament'. He confesses his great love for Dutch democracy. I have a question about security versus accessibility. Mr Bosma said that the level of security should actually be raised, but he also said that he has an enormous love for accessible public democracy. Can we get tanks around the building? Are people all being searched? Are MPs being searched? Are bags being checked more? Do we get more bomb detectors? How does Mr Bosma intend to ensure the accessibility and openness of the deliberations in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u137	That is an excellent, very important question. It is a question that has been raised internally. Accessibility is a subject. Privacy is a subject. There's a lot of things you have to skip between. I absolutely agree with Mrs Van Tongeren that it should not be a fortress. Tanks in front of the door don't excite me either. I'm getting excited about all those classes that are around here and all those kids that are asking, sir, can I ask you a question? Those are the best questions you can get. But safety is really hyper-important and is becoming increasingly important. More and more people share the view that it is important. And I think we are lagging behind in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u138	I do not get a clear, brief and concise answer to both these questions, both to the fake Parliament and to the question of security and accessibility, while this President-in-Office says that he is aiming to have directors and MPs answered briefly and succinctly. Again, can we have a brief and concise answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u139	No, also because you shouldn't talk about security in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u140	So the question is out of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u141	No, the question is quite right, but you should not go into detail about it. In my speech, it was not for nothing but one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u142	I taste an almost voice from GroenLinks for Mr Bosma. Since I left the PVV, Mr Bosma and I have seen each other a number of times. I remember a ritual dance for the elevator button. It wasn't always pleasant. Suppose Mr Bosma becomes President of this house and we have another VAO with those infamous 30 seconds. Can he confirm that I can simply read a motion in peace, without having to do the World Speedy Championship?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u143	Thanks to my tight leadership, you're getting better and better at reading three motions in 12 seconds. I do not think it is necessary to further sharpen the world record, but, of course, everyone should be able to table motions. When people have two minutes' speaking time in a VAO, I am always tight. At that time, people should be able to file three motions. If they have a fourth, it'll be their turn next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u144	I have just listened with admiration to Mr Bosma, as I said earlier. One part of his speech was that he really wants ministers and other people who get questions from the Chamber to give clear answers. The venom in the answer is a bit in the tail of the debate. Mrs Keijzer asked three times not in Mr Bosma's opinion about the possibility of saying something in this Parliament and calling it a fake parliament, but in his own opinion on that statement. However, I would like to hear Mr Bosma's opinion on that statement before we proceed to the vote. Is this a fake parliament, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u145	I have given a very clear answer to that. I don't understand why Mr Verhoeven doesn't think it's clear. It's the clearest answer you can get. I say it again: I am standing here as President-in-Office and I have no opinion whatsoever on what people are saying. The leader of the D66 group called people "racist" and "xenophobic with racist expressions." Mr Pechtold spoke of 'extreme right' and 'politics are dirty and dirty'. I have no opinion on that. I don't have an opinion on what's being said. I will always fight for Mr Pechtold to be able to say such things until my last breath. That is the essence of the Dutch Parliament and that is why we are here. Everyone has to be able to say all that, except for the things I mentioned earlier. I'm fighting 100% for that freedom of speech. I'll keep doing that. In substance, I do not have any opinion on all such matters. You shouldn't want to do that as President. Nor should you, as a Chamber, demand that a President give his opinion on what is being put forward here. You're looking for a chairman and not a juror for Idols!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u146	I think it could be very important for the groups to decide immediately what Mr Bosma's position is on the matter. I ask Mr Bosma to just say it now. He has made it quite clear in several ways that everything must be said, both by Mr Wilders, by Mr Pechtold and by the other group chairmen. He has been absolutely clear about this. I thank him for that. I ask him, on behalf of my group, what his opinion is on the claim that this is a fake parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u147	I say: I am standing here as the candidate chairman, so I am not going to comment on all the things that Members of Parliament say or find. That's just not my job. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u148	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term. On behalf of all of you, I would like to thank the candidates for their comprehensive first-term response. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. I see everyone's gonna give up on that. We're about to start a complicated vote. I think it would be a good idea to suspend for ten minutes before we begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u149	Mr Roemer has a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u150	Madam President. Because we have two free rounds, it is possible that after the first round you will get a picture of who is the first to fall. So it's a strategic moment. Hence the request that, at least after the first round, a suspension of about ten minutes be planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u151	I'll take a look around. This vote is complicated enough as it is. It seems important to me that we offer space...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u152	For clarity, all 150 members can make a strategic assessment. The same goes for you, Mr Zijlstra!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u153	I think it would be wise to respond to this request. After the results of the first round of votes, I shall suspend for ten minutes before we begin the second round of votes. It is a rather complicated vote, which fortunately always starts with the appointment of the members of the polling bureau. The vote will take place in accordance with Rules 74 to 83 of the Rules of Procedure. I appoint Members of the polling station Van Nispen, Maij, Van der Linde and Bruins Slot. I ask them to come forward and sit down at the table in the middle of the room. I ask Mr Van Nispen to act as president of the polling station. Most of you have seen an election of the President before. For the people who might follow it at home, at the beginning of each round I'll give you what we're going to do and what's going to happen. I ask the messengers to hand out the orange ballots. I would ask you to write one name on the ballot paper. Notes with more names are not valid, names of non-members make it an invalid voice and also blank notes are invalid. It is important to take this into account, because only the number of valid votes will determine the absolute majority. I would ask you to come forward calmly when the Registrar mentions your name and after you have cast your vote, to sit back in the Chamber quietly. I would ask you not to leave the Chamber. That makes it all clear. My ballot note and Mr Otwin van Dijk's ballot note will be picked up by the Chamberkeeper. The first round is a free round. This means that a vote may be cast on all Members. I would ask the Registrar to begin reading the names, in alphabetical order, of the 149 members who signed the attendance list. The members of the polling bureau shall cast their votes at the end. I get the signal that all Members have received a ballot. I'd like to give the clerk the floor to read out the names. May I ask for silence in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u154	Thank you very much. The polling station will now count the votes. I shall therefore suspend the sitting. However, I would ask you to stay in the Chamber during the counting of the votes so that we can proceed quickly afterwards. I think that's what you want. After the outcome of the first ballot, there will be a suspension, which was requested by Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u155	I'm asking all members to take their seats again. I'm glad we can do it this fast. I give the floor to the president of the polling station, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u156	A total of 149 votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u157	A total of 149 members also reported their presence on the attendance list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u158	146 valid votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u159	That means that the absolute majority of the votes cast are valid 74.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u160	There were two votes for Mrs Vermeij, 16 votes for Mr Bosma, 30 votes for Mrs Van Toorenburg, 40 votes for Mr Elias and 58 votes for Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u161	I note that in this first round of votes none of the Members reached the majority to be reached, the absolute majority of 74 votes in this case. That means we're going to a second ballot. As requested, we suspend ten minutes before we proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u162	We're gonna start round two. This round is also a free vote round. This means that a vote can be cast on all Members. The messenger service is now handing out the blue notes. The same applies again: please have one name on it, no blank votes, no votes on non-members. Those kind of votes aren't valid. I would like to ask the president of the polling station whether it is possible for the polling station to have a slightly higher pace than in the first round. I see that's the case. That's very nice. Then we can ask the Registrar to read the names with a little more urgency. I am happy to give the floor to the Registrar when the ballot papers have been distributed. Is everyone provided? Very good. Then I shall give the floor to the Registrar. May I ask you to be quiet? Then it's the fastest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you very much. Then the polling station is going to count the votes again. I'm gonna suspend the vote counting meeting. I would ask you to stay in the Chamber for a while. Then we can get back to work soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u164	I would ask Members to sit down quickly so that we can get to the results of the second round of voting. I am happy to give the floor again to the president of the polling station, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u165	Mr. Chairman. A total of 149 votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u166	149 members also reported their presence on the attendance list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u167	148 valid votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u168	That means that the absolute majority of the votes cast are valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u169	Two votes were cast for Mrs Vermeij, 13 votes for Mr Bosma, 34 votes for Mrs Van Toorenburg, 43 votes for Mr Elias and 56 votes for Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u170	Thank you very much. I note that, once again, none of these Members has achieved this majority. A third round of voting will therefore have to take place. The third round of voting is subject to a special procedure. Since more than four members were cast in the second round of votes, the third round can only vote on the four members who received the most votes in the second round of votes. This means that there is no longer a free vote in the third round, in which all Members can be voted on, but only Mr Arib, Mr Elias, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Bosma can be voted on. The messengers are going to hand out the green notes and then I'm going to ask the clerk again to read the names. Before we start reading the names, I would like to remind you once again that only the names of the four candidates mentioned are still valid votes. Names other than these and blank votes are invalid votes and therefore do not count for the absolute majority. I'd be happy to give the floor to the clerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you very much. All the votes were therefore cast in this third round. I'm suspending the vote counting meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u172	I ask the Members to take their place again. We're going to the results of the third round. The president of the polling station has indicated that the polling station is ready for this. I'm just gonna wait till everybody sits down. I notice that it went faster when everyone stayed in the room. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u173	A total of 149 votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u174	149 members reported their presence on the attendance list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u175	147 valid votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u176	That means that the absolute majority of the valid votes cast this time is 74.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u177	11 votes were cast for Mr Bosma, 32 votes for Mrs Van Toorenburg, 44 votes for Mr Elias and 60 votes for Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u178	Thank you very much. I note that, even in this round of voting, none of the Members obtained an absolute majority. A fourth round of voting will therefore have to take place. For the fourth round of votes, only the two Members who have obtained the most votes in this third round of votes will be able to vote. I note that these are Mr Arib and Mr Elias. In the fourth round of votes, therefore, it will only be between Mr Arib and Mr Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u179	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group needs a suspension of about 15 minutes, if that is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u180	I can very well imagine. Previously, we've honored such a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u181	We are going to begin the fourth ballot. For the fourth ballot, the messengers will immediately hand out the yellow ballots, again a new colour. For the purpose of determining the absolute majority in this round, only the votes cast on Mr Arib and Mr Elias shall be cast. So Blanco votes and votes for other Members no longer count in determining the absolute majority. I note that everyone is provided with a ballot paper. I shall now give the floor to the Registrar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u182	All the votes have been cast again. We're gonna suspend for counting the votes. There are only two candidates now, so that could go a little faster. I would ask you to stay in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u183	May I ask all Members to take their seats? In the fourth round, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, the president of the polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u184	A total of 149 votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u185	149 members also reported their presence on the attendance list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u186	134 valid votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u187	In other words, the absolute majority of the votes cast shall be 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u188	51 votes were cast for Mr Elias and 83 votes for Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u189	Let me now turn to the formal side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u190	As Mrs Arib has obtained the absolute majority of the votes, she has been elected as the new President of the House of Representatives. I ask her to come forward, but not before I also thank the other Members who have applied, I think on behalf of all of us. Of course, I would also like to thank the members of the polling station, who have had to work hard this evening. These members have also been relieved of their duties. I would ask Mrs Arib to come forward and take the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u191	Through all the photographers I can hardly see anyone! Thank you. I would like to thank all my fellow Members very much for the confidence they have placed in me. I want my fellow candidates, I know it's not supposed to be, but I want to call them Madeleine, Martin, Ton and... and me! ....
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-6.u192	It takes a lot of courage to stick your neck out and chancele you. You've all been able to see what that entails in terms of publicity, including negative publicity. Nevertheless, I think it is a great achievement for the Chamber to choose someone from among its members. Thank you all: the colleagues who voted for me, but also the other colleagues. I'm President of the Chamber for everyone. I will do everything I can to give the Chamber every opportunity and, of course, to intervene wherever it is necessary in the coming year. Thank you. I'm a little moved, so I'm gonna stop right here. I'll suspend the meeting for half an hour.
