ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u1	We shall continue with the second term of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the personal budget (pgb) is a full alternative to in-kind care;]] [[Whereas limited research has shown that municipalities have not identified grounds for refusal, but are also unable to use grounds for refusal in a sense of non-flavour;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no restrictions on pgb are imposed by municipalities;]] [[also invites the Government, on the basis of additional research, including the client perspective, to consider the use of grounds for refusal in the support programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that under the old system of payment of the pgb, less than 1% of the files were checked for fraud;]] [[noting that this was one of the reasons for the introduction of the drawing right;]] [[calls on the government to go back to the old way of working until there is a proven automated drawing right system and to use the funds now spent on keeping an operating system in the air for fraud teams on the old system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Keijzer, Mr Voortman, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Leijten and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-263]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-264]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u3	The debate we have had this morning is also coming to an end. The letter received from the Secretary of State on 23 September speaks volumes. I fear that from 1 November the system will be completely wiped out. Then we'll talk again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State gave a lot of answers in the first term. They weren't all that sharp. In order to avoid a misunderstanding here about the plans the Secretary of State wants to come up with next month, I would like to make the following very clear. Is there going to be a proposal next month that includes all aspects, including management? Or is there just a proposal to build a portal? If that were the case, it would be contrary to the Potters/Van Dijk motion and would also be contrary to the commitment given to me by the Secretary of State in the first term. I would like to hear a clear answer from the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u5	I believe that the Secretary of State has said four times that this would be included in the proposal he is presenting to us. Mr Potters is now asking the Secretary of State to say that for the fifth time. Mr Potters felt that this debate should be held this week. Is he satisfied with the results of the debate we have now had?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u6	I am satisfied with a number of points. We know that there is now a clear plan before 1 November, in addition to the answer I still get from the Secretary of State, which contains a number of very important ingredients. We have clarity that probably on 1 January 2018 that new system can work. The Secretary of State has also made a clear commitment that there will be no such chaos as on 1 January 2015. He says: yes, I have it under control and I take management measures if necessary. These are the answers that I believe everyone and all the pgb-holders are waiting for. They've been waiting a long time for that. It is not a day too late for us to have had a debate on this. I am very pleased that we have now received these answers in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u7	These answers have already been given by the Secretary of State in the previous debate on the pgb. Or does Mr Potters consider that the Secretary of State did not do that right at the time? It's two-and-a-half. Either the Secretary of State did not give a good answer in previous debates and he did not respond well to Mr Potters in those debates. If that is the case, then Mr Potters should have said so. Or the things he's asking for now have been promised before. If that is the case, should Mr Potters simply admit that this debate might have been better in three weeks' time when the proposal is presented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u8	I do not think we need to be under any illusions: we will just have another debate about this in a month's time. I think that's very good, too. We'll all keep our finger on the wrist. What's the status of the pgb draw? The commitments made following that motion of 1 October have not yet been implemented by the State Secretary. I clearly said in the first term that I am disappointed. There is now a very hard deadline on November 1st. The Secretary of State has made it abundantly clear that he is going to comply with it. After 1 November, we are going to have a debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u9	I agree with what Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks said. I'd like to advise the VVD. Such a debate request again creates a great deal of unrest and uncertainty among budget holders. This debate might as well have taken place in a month's time, looking at the proceeds and the course of events. I would therefore like to give the VVD: be critical, also with the expressions. This again causes questions for the budget holders about decisions. We have not been able to make those decisions today. We'll take it in a month. So perhaps it is not so much a question but rather a comment towards the VVD to really look at that critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mrs Bergkamp and I differ on that point. We have received some very clear answers. That's something the pgb holders have been waiting for for a long time. Those answers are there. We don't have an implementation plan yet. I know. But there will be. I am glad that we have had the debate. All of us want to give that clarity as soon as possible. There have been some very clear answers. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u11	The VVD wanted a plan and clarity before the summer. They didn't come. Then she wanted a plan and clarity before October 1st. That wasn't possible. What will the VVD do if we don't have a plan in November?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u12	I do not think that is a relevant question at all. It's a like-dan question. I, all of us, have received a very clear answer from the Secretary of State: a full yes. I'd like to know exactly what's in the plan. So I do not have to answer your question, because on 1 November there is simply a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u13	The question is relevant, because from the moment Mr Potters took over the spokesperson of his colleague Mr Keijzer, who felt that Mrs Keijzer and I and others from the opposition were doing so, while the problem was huge in the Social Insurance Bank, he chose the flight forward. "We're on top of it." But it was 'on top': we want a plan for the summer, we want a plan in September, and now Mr Potters agrees with a debate on a plan in November. I would like to know how serious Mr Potters is when there is nothing there. He's been sent in the reed three times now: wait, it's gonna come, it's gonna come. When's the border reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u14	We need to keep two things apart. I find it difficult to defend a previous spokesperson, because he can't do it anymore. I'm now the spokesman for this file. The motion that there should be a plan on 1 October has been voted in plenary. The Secretary of State said: in October. It's gonna be November 1st. I think I'm very clear. On 1 November there must be a full plan. Period. I think that message has come across very clearly, including to the Secretary of State. I really think there's going to be a delivery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u15	Before the summer we said goodbye to the Social Insurance Bank, so the entire Chamber could read on teletext after a debate in which the PvdA and the VVD had not said goodbye to the SVB. That was a press release. Is the plan of 1 November for the VVD with or without the Social Insurance Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u16	We do this all the time here as spokesmen. We want to determine how to do it in technology. The Secretary of State must be given the space to come up with a full plan. The VVD said we're not married to the Social Insurance Bank, it doesn't necessarily have to be with the SVB. There has to be a plan that the budget holders can work with simply and simply. I'm going to hold the Secretary of State to that. There is no point in saying with whom and with whom. He has to come up with a clear plan. I believe that we have all been given that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u17	I must say that I share Mrs Voortman's and Mrs Bergkamp's analysis. My question is quite simple. What answer should the Secretary of State give in the second term, so that Mr Potters has enough answers to the question he has already received four times in the first period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u18	I do not think that the President will allow me to repeat what questions I have asked here. But I honestly don't get the point. Together with the VVD, the PvdA had a parliamentwide motion adopted that there should be a plan on 1 October. The Secretary of State has explained that this will be in October, because he still has discussions. So there's another month's grace. I assume that Mrs Volp thought the motion was important, that she also supported speed and that she felt that there should be a plan for 1 November and that this should be a full plan. That is why I would like to make a very precise point about the 'I'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u19	I certainly have no doubt about the intention of the motion, but I also have no doubt about the intention of the Secretary of State's replies. I wonder what doubt Mr Potters still has about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have no doubt about that. I only note that the answers I have received are very clear, but that, as other Members of Parliament are asking for answers, there will be a distinction between the portal, the management of buildings and the question of what exactly is done on 1 November. I just want to be clear. I mean by that a pre-eminent alternative that we can work on and on which we can make a choice. These ingredients could be in there. I think the Secretary of State can just answer that with a full "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the application for a personalised budget should not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy;]] [[noting that Per Balance received 1,200 comparable reports of disproportionate demand for data in a budget application;]] [[Whereas budget holders have had to work with a user-unfriendly system looking at the functionalities;]] [[considers that the current drawing right system should be simplified, data demand should remain proportionate and unnecessary rules should be deleted as soon as possible;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with users (budget holders), to establish a list of improvement points and priorities with regard to the current system and administrative burden and to inform the Court of Auditors on the budgetary treatment of Health, Welfare and Sport;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u22	How's that going in a debate? Speakers are debating each other, but they're also e-mailing each other motions. For example, I tabled a motion to reduce the administrative burden on the budget. Before we submitted, I received a commitment from the Secretary of State, precisely on this point. Then why is Mrs Bergkamp making this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u23	Then I missed Mrs Leijten's motion. That's possible; we've exchanged a lot of emails with each other. So I have not seen Mrs Leijten's motion. If the Secretary of State can now give a full undertaking that a list of improvement points, a list of priorities aligned with the budget holders, will come to the Chamber, then I assume that the Secretary of State will take over the motion. Otherwise, I would like to give Mrs Leijten the opportunity to put her name under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u24	No, I don't have to participate in the ownership of all kinds of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u25	You brought it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u26	I am concerned that a commitment has been made in the debate: for the budget, the Secretary of State will present a letter stating how he is going to ensure that the humiliating filling circus with those 75 pages is reduced. And then there's gonna be a motion. In an unnecessary debate, as Mrs Bergkamp rightly said, such an unnecessary motion is being tabled; I actually think it is a bit of a circus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u27	A little nuance, then. I would just like to say to Mrs Leijten that the motion is about improving the functionality of the current system and dealing with bureaucracy. Once again, if the Secretary of State says 'okidoki, I am going to do; I am going to take over the motion', then Mrs Leijten is right and I completely missed in the debate that he has already promised what we are asking for in our motion. We'll wait and see. I have tabled a second motion for a resolution because I did not consider the Secretary of State's commitment to this point to be sufficient. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a budget holder with more care should now apply for this again every year;]] [[considers that this can be very annoying and painful for parents and contributes to unnecessary administrative burdens;]] [[calls on the government to realize that someone with greater care should not apply for this again every year by default,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a different payment system should be established for the payment of pgbs;]] [[Whereas care has been taken but unnecessary obstacles must be removed;]] [[Whereas a payment system is possible without the involvement of the SVB;]] [[calls on the Government, Per Balch and ZN to allow for the development of the proposed alternative, including an out-of-view management option where, in order to keep this option in view, opportunities are seen instead of obstacles, and to present this option in the study of the future of the pgb,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-267]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u29	Apart from this motion, I would like to receive an analysis from the State Secretary: why is there a tendering obligation, both in the situation where the SVB is still in view and in the situation where it is not? I am prepared to prepare a legislative amendment as a Member of Parliament. I will discuss this with the Secretary of State; perhaps that will help. I now submit my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in 2002 the House of Representatives adopted the Vendrik motion which included the standard to work with open source ICT;]] [[points out that the new payment system for the pgbs becomes an open source system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u30	On the question of whether it would be wise to 'initiate' checks in the current system on 1 November, I have been clear both in the first period and in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to comment on the occasion of this debate, on the announcement that municipalities would discourage pgb or opportunities to do so. I would therefore like to table a motion on the housing initiatives. The Secretary of State indicated that municipalities have the space to make housing initiatives possible, but the question is whether they also use that space. I often hear that municipalities don't know what's involved. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas small-scale housing initiatives ensure that people with disabilities can continue to live independently and thereby manage their lives as much as possible;]] [[Whereas municipalities sometimes make it difficult to maintain a small-scale housing initiative due to strict requirements and short-term indications;]] [[considers that pgb-funded small-scale housing initiatives should continue to be possible within the Wmo;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the support programme developed by the UNG and Per Balance explicitly addresses the particular position of small-scale residential initiatives;]] [[Invites the Government, together with the VNG, to seek solutions to the obstacles now experienced by small-scale residential initiatives in applying for pgb funding and debt financing, if this requires legislative and regulatory adjustments, to make proposals to this effect and to forward them to the Chamber by 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'll leave it at that, because we've changed a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. This morning we read everything in the paper. In this respect, this debate has been enlightening. I understand that we are working on two solutions for the construction of the portal: one with the SVB and one with a new foundation, including ZN and VNG. It is important that these two variants are explored simultaneously and that the best ones come to the Chamber so that the Chamber can discuss them at the end of October. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at present, pgb budget holders who have a conflict with their healthcare office can only take the path to justice;]] [[Whereas the Ombudsman is not an appropriate body for mediation and dispute resolution as the care office is a private organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to organise mediation and dispute settlement for disputes concerning the Wlz-pgb similar to the way in which the Stichting Complaints and Disputes Zorgverzekering (SKGZ) operates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u34	I have a question. The Wlz and the Wmo include the possibility of appeal and appeal. The Health Insurance Act refers to a dispute settlement committee. I wonder if you should mix those two systems together. Has the Christian Union Group considered something like a perseverance force, as we have discussed it with each other under the Youth Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u35	I haven't thought about that. I'm sure I'd like to take a look at that. I do see municipalities that organise an ombud function for the Wmo on their own initiative. Under the Health Insurance Act, the ombud function lies with the SKGZ, but for the Wlz there is actually nothing yet. I am therefore prepared to consider whether I should make this motion a little more specific. The Secretary of State has also promised half-half a year that he would look at it, but that he will also look at the position of client councils. I still think it's a little insecure. So I'm still looking at the motion and I'm looking at the Secretary of State's reaction. Let us then look at how best to avoid the unnecessary withdrawal of budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin, or actually end, with a positive summary of this debate. What have we done now? In any case, we have heard again and again, in fact, a number of times, I can say that the Secretary of State is coming up with a plan for 1 November. On that basis, as a Chamber, we can actually make a decision on the future of the pgb. As far as my party is concerned, the core is simple and honest, customer-friendly and verifiable. It's good to hear the Secretary of State wants speed. He was right to make the point: quickly where it can be done, but as well as it has to be done. I await his elaboration of the plan. In addition, I welcome his commitments to look together with Per Recht and Zorgverzekerings Nederland at the unnecessary bureaucracy between the domains. I would like it not only to be looked at, but also to be addressed where necessary. However, I still have concerns about the agreements made with the VNG and with Per Balance on knowledge and skills.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... When can we expect the effects of these agreements? Retention is not appropriate for municipalities. We do not want unnecessary thresholds. So I'd like to get another reaction to that. Finally, I would regret it if, in response to the announcement in August, budget holders felt that their concerns were not legitimate. It was about the legality of declarations. They must be legitimate. I would like to see the SVB now making every effort to ensure that even after 1 November budget holders receive the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u37	I have a question. I hear Mrs Volp saying that it is a good thing that the Secretary of State comes up with "a" plan. I have just tabled a motion which states that an alternative is also being considered which does not involve the Social Insurance Bank. Will the Labour Party be okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u38	In my opinion, I have heard the Secretary of State say in his explanation of what he comes up with that there is now a proposal on development and that there are a number of scenarios for subsequent developments about stakeholders and governance. I think it would be a good idea to wait and see. Mrs Keijzer has tabled her motion. I want to see the plan. I imagine the Secretary of State is still responding to her motion. I would particularly like to see speed now and I would like a plan on the basis of which the Chamber can take decisions in accordance with the motion by Mr Potters and former colleague Otwin van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u39	Very briefly, does the Labour Party therefore agree that a plan should also be laid down in which the Social Insurance Bank has no function in management? I also ask the same question about building the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u40	I want a plan that can be built as soon as possible, with clarity about who has what responsibility and who has what function. We know that the Secretary of State has initiated this process. Per Balance has indicated that it has provided the functionalities for this, also in accordance with what I asked, among other things with Mrs Dik-Faber, in an earlier motion. I'd like to see the effect. We'll have to wait and see what the Secretary of State comes up with in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u41	This was not an answer to my question. Is it with or without the Social Insurance Bank according to the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u42	I don't have a glass ball. I expect the Secretary of State to come up with a plan the way we want it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mrs Volp says she wants the declarations to be legal from 1 November. How far does she go in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'd like, with the Secretary of State, to see that all claims are legitimate. The chain director and Per Balance have indicated that this must be possible. There's a lot of action going on right now. We have also seen that if after 1 November people get into trouble without their fault, everything will be done to ensure the legality of the declarations as soon as possible. That's how far I want to go. I want to go so far as to ensure that this can be done optimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u45	I find it shocking that the PvdA here says that from 1 November all declarations must be lawful. We all know that 'non-legal' is not necessarily 'fraud'. The downside is, as we read in the letter of 23 September, that the budgets are not being paid out. So I find it extremely shocking that the Labour Party here says that by 1 November all declarations must be lawful. Of course, that's what we're all striving for. But we're gonna get a debacle and I don't know if we're gonna see the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u46	I do not know if Mrs Agema would like to comment on this, but she puts words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I do want to get to the best of justice. I can't help but imagine that Mrs Agema wants me to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u47	For a short while, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs Volp says I put her words in her mouth. I didn't. I'm not gonna let her say that. She said herself that she wants the claims to be legitimate and she herself took the word "all" in her mouth. So I'm really not gonna let her say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u49	I aim for "all." And you just said the same thing in your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u50	She's aiming for it and heading for a debacle. We'll see the Titanic sink in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u51	Good. Finally, Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. The balance between user-friendly and control of this Secretary of State continues to need to fill out 65 pages when you need a personal budget for your son. The Secretary of State comes forward for the budget with a plan to put the knife in there. I'm assuming this isn't going to be a 64-page plan. I also assume it's not going to be a 30-page plan. I'm assuming it's going to be 10%. I find filling out more than six forms humiliating, to say the least. Today it was asked whether we will see improvements from 2020 or see them by 2018. The Secretary of State said he's heading for 2018. That's hopeful. I'm assuming he's looking at all the variants in his research and he's choosing the best variant. I also assume that, at the time when the participation of a particular organisation is an obstacle for others to participate, read the Social Insurance Bank, the Secretary of State is not married to it. I'm asking a question about compensation. This is tendered. The money has been booked for this year and no money has been entered for 2017 for a compensation scheme. Can I assume that the money booked for this year will not lapse or that this will not fall back to the general budget if it is not settled in 2016? We have had a lot of magic in this debate with figures, payouts and so on. Can the Secretary of State promise that all those people who work with a pgb can celebrate Santa Claus in December? In other words, are they simply paid their salaries so that family life can continue? I'm not just talking about celebrating Santa Claus, I'm also talking about celebrating Christmas and making sure that everything is on the road carefully next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u53	I think I know the answer, but I'd like to get a little sharp where the SP is. Should it become apparent that there is a variant without the Social Insurance Bank, for example with the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u54	On the understanding that the wealth of data and privacy for people is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u55	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u56	Healthcare insurers and health offices know the situation of their clients and their pgbs, but it should not be the case that they can get that data from everyone and that this data will become private property.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u57	While we are talking here and trying to get the Secretary of State to delete unnecessary checks, another message from that same mother is coming in that a certain part of the pgb cannot go on because the application states that her son occasionally plays with shaving foam. It's considered treatment. I just want to say this. I am not saying this to Mrs Leijten, but through Mrs Leijten I say this to the Secretary of State. This is what needs to change. This just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u58	The system that has been built up, which means that you have to prove that you need care, has taken all forms of Kafka. It's very humiliating. That a pgb is rejected on the basis of something so petty, must make the Secretary of State think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see the Secretary of State has all the motions. I'm suspending the meeting so he can prepare himself better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr. Chairman. There was a repeated question from Mr Potters on the November plan. It is perhaps good to repeat again, I believe for the fifth time, what we intend to do in that November plan with the approach to the portal, how we are going to implement it, what the timetable is for it, what the costs are, what the commissioning is about both in the temporary and in the structural situation and what investments are needed by the Social Insurance Bank to achieve it, in the current system and possibly in the connection with the new one. I would add that I will inform the Chamber separately of the state of play regarding the checks. Also in the context of the finger that needs to be held on the wrist, not only by me, but also by the Chamber, I think it would be a good idea to take that with me. Mrs Keijzer asked about the legal form. I would like to offer her that I would take that with me in my October letter. It is clear that we are now saying to each other: if we have a joint construction team and we can do it without a call for tenders, then we can do it perfectly and make pace. If, for some reason, we fail to do so, we have to go back to tendering. That would be a shame, because it takes time. That's exactly why we're looking into how things are going now. If it does not work, we will get the variant with the tender, but again: I am very willing to explain this in detail in our letter on the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u61	Quite precisely: next week, we are discussing a law that allows us to incorporate an amendment to write the Social Insurance Bank out of legislation in the long term. That's what you do with an entry into force clause. I would like to think along with the Secretary of State, because that expands his options for the future of the pgb. Is he okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u62	The House itself deals with the amendments it proposes. I am now mainly concerned with getting the current systems in order and taking the next step with regard to the controls, making a plan for construction afterwards, and talking about management in an orderly manner. I am not in favour of preparing a legislative amendment on an element of it in the interim when we do not know what we are going to do with it. However, the Chamber is about its own agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mrs Keijzer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u64	That's true, but if the Secretary of State reveals it, you're nowhere. This is not about an element, by the way. This is fundamental. Everything that we are discussing here today, and the future of it, its speed and care, is or is left with the question of whether the SVB is there or not. It limits your ability. I am not saying that the SVB has to get out immediately, but I want to broaden the scope for solutions for the future. However, I see a Secretary of State who does not take the bait. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u65	That is because we have agreed a careful process with each other with regard to construction and management. It does not seem to me to be very careful to remove in the interim the way in which it is now being managed, when we do not really know what it is going to be like. Mrs Leijten asked about the compensation scheme. If the funds could not be spent in 2016, they are indeed not gone. That would be wrong, too. They also asked about the agreements between the VNG and Per Balance, I thought by Mrs Volp. Honestly, I don't know at the moment, but I'll inform the Chamber about the exact timetable. I can take that in the October letter. I'm going into the motions now. In the motion-Agema c.s. in piece No. 263 the government is asked to carry out additional research, including the client perspective. I would advise against this motion. Firstly, the motion states that no restrictions on pgb should be imposed by municipalities. That is not in accordance with the law, because it is precisely the possibility for municipalities to be able to assess that. That does not mean that we should not talk about how it is applied. That is why we are setting up the support programme together with the VNG and Per Balance. Moreover, the client perspective will indeed be taken into account. In the motion-Agema in part No. 264 is asked the government to go back to the old way of working. I would also advise against this. The right of draw has been deliberately introduced. Returning to the old method would not be in the interests of the budget holder either. In the Berkkamp/Volp motion to item No. 265 the government is asked to come up with a list of points of improvement in consultation with users and to inform the Chamber accordingly. We discussed this in the debate. Mrs Leijten pointed that out. I would be happy to accept this motion, but I would ask for a little more time than for the budgetary procedure so that we can ensure that we can do it in a sound and careful way in consultation with all the parties involved. So I'm going to do it, but I can't necessarily finish it for the budget. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u66	Can the Secretary of State even mention a term? And does he realize that the motion contains elements relating to the functionality of the technical system, the abolition of rules and the administrative pressure? If that is the case, and if the Secretary of State knows how to put forward a realistic deadline, I, along with Mrs Volp, am prepared to let him take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mrs Bergkamp is now filling in the motion a little more broadly, but that is also in line with the general approach I would like to take to administrative burdens. I suggest we do it by February. Would that fit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u68	Yes, provided that the Secretary of State takes over the enlargement as he interprets it and as it stands in the motion. I am concerned with the whole package: the functionality of the current system must be improved, the unnecessary rules abolished, the number of forms reduced and the administrative burden reduced. In that case, I and Mrs Volp are prepared to accept the February deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u69	That sounds good to me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mrs Leijten also heard the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u71	That is correct, Mr President, but I have received a commitment from the Secretary of State, which this motion is actually blowing over. How's that commitment coming along? I assume that he will simply maintain the commitment he made to me in the first term, namely that he will come forward with a proposal for a substantial reduction in the number of 65 pages for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u72	I have indeed promised Mrs Leijten that I will assess the forms we are using now and that I will see if we can reduce them in number. I am going to do my best to conclude this so-called'smaller side' for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u73	I do not want to get the commitment to Mrs Leijten at all, but we were just having an interrupting debate and I think it is important to note that our motions seem to be different, but they did not seem to be the same at first. I think it's important to report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u74	In the motion-Bergkamp c.s. in piece No. 266 the government is asked to realize that someone with more care does not have to apply for it again every year by default. I explained in the debate that I, together with the Healthcare Authority, the Healthcare Institute, the health insurance companies and Per Balance, am looking at how we can simplify this. It is also my goal to achieve that. I have pointed out that there are also situations in which this is difficult, because more care changes with time. With these comments, I believe that this motion supports policy and leaves the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion-Keijzer in part No. 267 the government is invited to maintain the established alternative in which the Social Insurance Bank is out of the picture. I'm really reasoning in order. We have to look at what we want first, then the construction comes and then we have to make decisions about management. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u75	If the Secretary of State does so, you must remain under the umbrella of the Social Insurance Bank. Isn't that a shame?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u76	No, because this is perhaps also very sensible for reasons of substance, because there are also employers' and current pay responsibilities in this area. We're gonna have to keep looking at the whole chain, no matter what we make up with each other. Apart from the question of who will ultimately manage the portal, you need to stick with the players who are now active to make sure that there is a good portal. However, that is independent of the future, because we must, of course, keep the options open. Mrs Keijzer is right about that. In the motion-Keijzer/Voortman in part No. 268 states that the new payment system will become an open source system for the pgbs. I also advise against that motion. Not because we wouldn't want to, but because we have to look at what is cheapest and what produces the most quality. Sometimes that's buying a standard system and sometimes that's building a system yourself. If you go for that first option, you also depend on what you buy. I had already promised to include that point in the October letter, so perhaps it would be good if we discussed it further. In the motion in part No. 269 the government is invited to work with the VNG to find solutions to the obstacles currently experienced by small-scale housing initiatives. We exchanged in the debate that the government also pays particular attention to small-scale housing initiatives and promotes them wherever possible. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 270 is requested for pgb mediation. Maybe I can make Mrs. Dik-Faber a proposal? Mrs Keijzer also made a comment on this. There is, of course, some difference between a public-law scheme, as in the Wlz, and another scheme, as in the Youth Act and the Health Insurance Act. I'm sure I'd like to take a look at it. I would also like to take up the question of how far we can promote dispute resolution here. If I promise to look at it and come up with solutions as soon as possible, I hope Mrs Dik-Faber will continue this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u77	If the Secretary of State wishes to point out once again when we are informed, I am prepared to hold the motion. It should not be next year, but in November or else early December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u78	January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u79	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'm sorry it's gonna take so long again. After all, we have been talking about this for a long time. But, yeah, I guess it's the only way. I'll have to accept this offer. It really should not be later than January, otherwise we will be too close to March. That would be very annoying. I would like to talk to the Secretary of State about this, and after March, of course, everything will become insecure again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u81	So you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u82	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u83	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (25657, No. 270). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u84	What was the verdict on the motion in part No. 269? There's some confusion with the members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u85	That is the motion on small-scale housing initiatives. I have indicated that I think it is important to see how we can stimulate it. I've left that motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr Potters, you have not tabled any motions, have you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u87	No, but the Secretary of State has promised me to come back on something in the second term. He would go into legislation to deal with caregivers instead of pgb-holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'm sorry about that. In the letter of 7 December, I stated that we have already arranged that by means of an act of assignment, the budget holder himself is not called upon. I have announced that we are looking at regulations to make this possible through a direct contact title. It now seems that all three laws do not require legislation but lower legislation. If that is the case, and I have almost 100% certainty about it, then that regulation could enter into force on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u89	So the AMvB will come to the Chamber in the next few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u90	Yes. Moreover, I do not think that the Chamber should give a formal opinion on this, but I can imagine that the Chamber would be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u91	I see Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Leijten, but they really must keep their interruptions short. Otherwise, we'll have some kind of third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u92	I'm holding my motion in part no. 268 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u93	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (25657, No. 268). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u94	The research on whether healthcare professionals can be dealt with is also done at the request of the SP. We went there together with the VVD. It has also been shown that children can be fully loaded with debts if their parents have applied for a pgb in their name. When they turn 18, they have a debt, while their parents or caregivers have applied for it. Can it be taken into account in the same regulation that this will no longer be possible in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u95	It's a little different. We have said that we are looking for ways to prevent children from being burdened by their parents later with all kinds of extra costs. That means the parents need to be addressed. That's what happens in most cases. I don't know if that requires regulation. Mrs Leijten is right that this is part of the same discussion. I do not know whether we will include this in this regulation, because it may require different regulations, but we will at least ensure that children are not burdened with their parents' debts without their fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u96	In response to parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State writes that according to the system of the law on pgb, the applicant is to blame. If a child needs a pgb, that debt that was in his name expires after he was eighteen. If we can tackle the care providers instead of the budget holders, it seems to me that you can also deal with applicants, in this case the parents or caregivers, instead of the children. I urge you to take this with me, and I will also look at the Secretary of State's supporters. If caregivers can be dealt with by 1 January, then they must also be able to be protected in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u97	We totally agree that these parents should be addressed if they cause a debt that will later rest on the children, and not those children. I just asked to give me the room to see if there is a need for regulation and, if so, what kind of regulation. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that we should take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-8.u98	This brings us to the end of this debate on the plan to limit the possibilities for a pgb. Motions have been tabled, which will be voted on next Tuesday. I would like to thank colleagues and the Secretary of State. In a few minutes we will continue the debate on the Education and Vocational Education Act.
