ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Minister to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party considers that the sustainability of housing stock is of great importance. It sees good opportunities for this with the new energy performance compensation scheme, which allows corporations to make meters. However, it is not a good idea that residents of a house that is being renovated should not be given the assurance that they do not fall into housing costs. That is why I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas corporations are allowed to charge an energy performance fee to their tenants after the house has been renovated into a so-called zero-on-the-meter house;]] [[Whereas the possibility of an energy performance compensation may be an important tool for promoting the sustainability of housing stock;]] [[Whereas the legislation and the ministerial rules based on it provide that corporations may agree with their tenants on a guarantee of housing costs;]] [[Considers that, under no circumstances should the housing costs of individual tenants be increased to zero on the meter in the case of constant living behaviour as a result of the renovation;]] [[calls on the Government to make compulsory the guarantee of housing costs in the ministerial scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries, Mr Bashir and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34228-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	We know that, after renovation and sustainability of a house, more energy is generally used. People are longer in the shower and turn up the heat. This rebound effect amounts to about 40%. Who will pay the bill for that extra consumption: the tenant or the landlord?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	The answer to that question is simple: the tenant, because in the motion there is talk of "in the same way of living."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	How is this established?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	This may require some inventiveness, but Aedes and the Housing Association have made agreements on a housing security. I assume that this method can be used. Insofar as it is not yet clear enough, this methodology may need to be further improved. However, the principle that people do not decline in housing costs is really important in order to maintain the support for the sustainability of housing stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. The energy performance fee is an agreement between tenant and landlord, but the Minister knows as well as I do that the tenant and landlord are often not equal parties. That is why I made it clear when I examined the legislative proposal that not only the landlord should earn from energy measures, but that it should also benefit the tenant. The landlord must indeed invest to make a house more energy efficient. This would justify asking for compensation, as advocated earlier. But where did that clutch go? Why do we not see anything about an investment obligation for landlords? The good way to boost energy savings for tenants is to reduce the housing costs of tenants. In the drafting of the law we read that much remains to be worked out in a ministerial arrangement. How will the Minister ensure that housing costs are not guaranteed to increase? How does the Minister promote that tenants have a financial advantage in terms of energy performance compensation, especially given the uncertain future of the energy price? I shall put forward a motion to ask the Minister to do so at least. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the current regulations to agree an energy performance compensation, the financial advantage is mainly for the benefit of the landlord;]] [[Whereas a financial incentive for the tenant is desirable to give real impetus to sustainability through energy-neutral housing;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the reduction of tenants' housing costs when an energy performance compensation is agreed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34228-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	The Minister has yet to get the text of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. Energy saving in homes is an ambition of this cabinet. It is an ambition that lives widely in society, as demonstrated by the energy agreement supported by many parties. Fortunately, there are also very concrete initiatives to enable energy savings in rental homes, and specifically social housing. The Accelerator is a well-known example of this, but fortunately there are other examples as well. In order to enable initiatives to be taken, the cabinet and I, as responsible minister, have been asked to make it possible for a separate energy performance compensation to be calculated so that investments in the energy-neutralisation of housing can be recouped by the housing corporation or other landlords. That's how I got to work as quickly as I could. When I talk to corporations or entrepreneurs, I am constantly asked "where is the law?" Because they want to work with it. This law should also provide an important measure for achieving energy saving objectives. Mr De Vries' motion for a resolution (Doc. 18 is asked to make a guarantee of living expenses compulsory. That complicates the situation. The tenant and the landlord must agree on the conversion and application of the energy performance compensation. So there's already an important guarantee in that. The landlord has to prove in advance, but also annually, that this goes well. The tenant and landlord can voluntarily agree that a form of guarantee is given on top of that. If I understand Mr De Vries' motion correctly, he wants us to make this guarantee of living expenses mandatory in the country. This raises a number of problems. This means that this should not happen anymore, even if the tenant would agree because the house becomes more beautiful and comfortable and would possibly become slightly more expensive. That seems to me to be a restriction of freedom. Even if you step over it, you still encounter very complicated execution questions. How, for example, are you gonna make up for that housing security? If that is in the law, the AMvB or the ministerial regulation, the tenant will in one way or another want to claim his right. This means, for example, that somewhere you have to record the energy consumption of tenants before and after the entry into force of the measure. That is mandatory, because it is imposed by law. That requires a lot of workmanship. So it's gonna take a lot of time. We'd rather spend that time now to really get to work. It also raises major implementation and privacy questions. I assume you're going to measure energy consumption with individual tenants, before and later. "Housing security" is now just a word, but we have to try to settle it. I think that's a lot. To be honest, I would like to ask for an opinion from the Personal Data Authority on such a measure. After all, you literally crawl into people's immediate surroundings and I wouldn't want to take such a step. The implementation therefore raises many questions. If it's feasible, what I can't guarantee is that it will lead to a considerable delay in the realization of the zero-on-the-meter houses anyway. I therefore advise against the motion for both reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	I understand everything the Minister says. There are, of course, hooks and eyes to providing a guarantee. If someone buys or gets something, should he be able to assume that what is promised will eventually be realized? If that were not the case, would the Minister also have to acknowledge that the basis for zero-on-the-meter projects is going to be abandoned? Surely we should be able to protect the tenant from projects where things go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	If Mr De Vries puts it that way, I agree with him. For this reason, there are safeguards in advance, as well as consent requirements, which demonstrate in advance what needs to be achieved in the field of energy saving and what compensation is required for this. But once again, tenants must agree to the annual provision of data on the energy actually used and in case of abuses, the course to the Rent Committee is always possible. It was a new area, so not for nothing we wanted to evaluate this law after three years. That was a short period of time, but after one year we started looking at the first experiences with the help of a quickscan. We all do that because we want to make sure that it does indeed work as desired. If this motion, De Vries, were to become a reality, my great concern is that it will not allow us to check whether it works as it should. We'll get stuck in the complexity. Again, I don't really see how we should do this right now, but we would lose incredibly much time. So I share the concern expressed, but I want to ensure this along other routes than by trying to lock it down in advance. In Mr Bashir's motion to item No. 19 the government is invited to encourage the reduction of tenants' housing costs when an energy performance compensation is agreed. This is a very undetermined request. I assume that everyone likes it when the housing costs fall, but if the government accepts such a thing without the motion indicating exactly how to do it, then Mr Bashir is going to ask me how I realized it in a year's time. I don't know what the answer was, because it wasn't in the motion. I cannot help but dissuade a motion that has been formulated in this way, because this motion contains a completely undefined mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u12	The idea of energy-neutral housing is that these homes do not use energy. They're zero-on-the-meter houses and that's money, because the bill for gas and electricity will eventually have to be zero. We believe that this money should not only end up with the landlord, but that part of it should also go to the tenant. After all, we want a lot of energy-neutral homes to be built and to encourage this you need a lower bill. The proposal is therefore that the Minister specifically asks the landlords, asks them, or in any way encourages them, to share the money and not just keep it in their own pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u13	The request refers only to housing costs, which is broader than energy, but this explanation makes the request more concrete. In fact, Mr Bashir says about the energy part that the advantage of making the house energy neutral should not go entirely to the landlord in order to finance the investments, but to the tenant in part, for half. With this explanation, I must also discourage the motion. This means that it becomes much more difficult for the landlord to recover the investment, which is likely to become impossible for the landlord to recover. Then the landlord won't make that investment. This brings me back to the main objective of this law. We share the view that energy saving in rental homes is of great importance for the inhabitant himself and for the environment. The initiators have explicitly asked for this law. This halving of the ability to recoup investment will immediately make that law toothless and will not achieve that energy saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u14	I did not talk about half of it, which was interpreted by the Minister himself, but about reducing housing costs. If we really want energy-neutral housing, then there must also be an incentive for the tenant to go along with this. Otherwise, he will not agree to this. Then the Minister will have an passed law, but it will not be implemented in the end because there is no financial interest for the tenant to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u15	Tenants should agree to this type of renovation anyway. So that is already guaranteed. In this motion, it is added that part of the energy performance fee, I admit to Mr Bashir that this should not be exactly half of the amount actually disappears and is converted into lower housing costs for the tenant. This means, on balance, that the investment will not be made back or be much slower and that less, or probably no, homes will be isolated by this route. I don't think we should go in that direction, so I'm gonna stick with the fact that I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-20-tweedekamer-5.u16	That concludes this report of a written consultation Draft decision laying down rules on the possibility for landlord and tenant to agree an energy performance fee. I thank the Minister for Living and National Service for coming to the Chamber. The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
