ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u1	We'll start with the second term today. Tuesday we agreed to keep a third term as well. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice. Speaking time is four minutes per group. I give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. This debate, from last week and this week, gives an unheard-of picture of the way in which the cabinet deals with jihad terror. Not only are returned Syrians not being detained, not only are our borders still wide open and not only is the government refusing to recognise Islam as the cause of terror, but we also have a minister of security and justice who is making a huge mess of it. He needs a whole week to find out why the Americans have informed us about terrorist suspects. He doesn't know the difference between the FBI and the New York police. He has no idea whether a terrorist suspect is still in the Netherlands or not. He keeps waiting passively for other countries to call us before he takes action himself. He does not open messages from the Turkish authorities, even if there is "very urgent" above. And then when he sets up a terror group with the Turks, he lets it go. But the worst is yet to come. On 16 March this year, the New York Police Minister heard that Ibrahim El Bakraoui, the perpetrator of the horrific attack on Zaventem a week later, was wanted by Belgium in connection with the attacks in Paris. The next day he heard from the Belgians that the same man was suspected of ties to a terrorist network. And he didn't do anything. I ask the Minister, why didn't you do something then? Why didn't you take any action? The minister knew that the man was suspected of ties to a terrorist network. The minister knew the man was wanted in connection with the attacks in Paris. The minister knew that the man had been arrested by the Turks as a Syrian and expelled to the Netherlands. He could still be walking around in the Netherlands. And the minister didn't do anything. How is that possible? A week later, this jihadist killed many innocent people at Zaventem airport. If the minister had actively tracked down that mass murderer, if that mass murderer had been in the Netherlands and if the minister had taken action, we might have saved many lives. Unbelievable and unforgivable. What a passivity of this minister. Meanwhile, the minister is blundering and blundering. He's an amateur who doesn't know the facts, who doesn't read emergency messages, who doesn't call colleagues and who doesn't track down terrorists, but lets go. It is a minister who sometimes even drives the agents of the special terrorist unit DSI (Service Special Interventions) to despair, so that they even have to hire a lawyer. And even in his own constituency and in his own coalition, they don't like this minister anymore. Anonymous VVD-headpieces talked about headaches, bumbling and clumsy; I believe that was last Saturday in the Algemeen Dagblad. And in De Telegraaf, a member of the PvdA Chamber, also anonymously of course, said that people no longer have faith in this minister. Mr. Secretary, how long do you think you can sit there? How can the Netherlands still have faith in you if even your own coalition mates have enough of you? Do you not agree with me that if you stay seated, you will be under curate for a year, that you will be totally lame and that the Netherlands cannot afford it now? The Netherlands cannot afford not only your klutz, but also not a minister who is under curate when we have a terrorist problem. Mr President, I have just one question for the Minister: is it not time to quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u3	Madam President. The debate in the Chamber on the attacks in Brussels two weeks ago ended prematurely and in confusion. The minister could not tell why the FBI had informed the Netherlands about the terrorist suspect Ibrahim El Bakraoui. The Minister promised to find out. In retrospect, he had to confess that the whole debate shouldn't have been about the FBI, but should have been about the NYPD. Earlier in the debate, major questions had already been raised about the way in which the exchange of information had taken place with Turkey and Belgium. Last Tuesday, the Chamber obtained extensive information on the state of play. The CDA is grateful for that. We do not forget that there is an extraordinary responsibility on the shoulders of police, justice, defence, intelligence and foreign affairs staff for the safety of the Dutch. We constantly ask them for a high level of alertness. Due to the recent attacks in Brussels, we know how, in the end, each action is a small link in a large chain. So the question is not political whether the employees do their work with sufficient dedication, because they do. However, after the debate and after reading the documents, perhaps even stronger than before, there is another question: how is it possible that the Minister, who has so often spoken so loudly about combating terrorism and security, has looked and sent so terribly little ahead? The many words seem rather to conceal a poignant lack of urgency. Not the only fact that an email was not read in Ankara is the error. The mistake is that the Minister has not made any hard agreements with Turkey at all. While all Syrians return through Turkey and the Prime Minister says they can go to hell in the desert, the Minister of Justice knows nothing about those who return alive. On Monday it appeared that the Minister of Security and Justice is not yet able to get an official working group Netherlands-Turkey to work. In November, it was proudly announced that it would be set up, and I say this immediately to Mr Timmermans, a year earlier, a reinforced cooperation with Turkey was announced. There were appointments to be made. If the media had not found out, we would never have known that the Minister's commitment on this matter was never fulfilled in November and a year earlier. It's only now that there's a rush, after all. The Prime Minister said after the attacks of Paris, early 2015: we are at war. Those were big words that a prime minister can't just use. But that's not how you win this war. It is becoming increasingly clear that the safety chain is systematically overloaded. The police need to reduce rather than expand and, at Schiphol Airport, a European external border, the passport control is in danger of falling apart this summer. We can find all kinds of Greeks, but we have to get it right ourselves. And further, the Special Interventions Service is about to jump. The urgency of these matters is extremely great. What will the Minister and the Prime Minister do about these acute problems? The CDA wants to hear clear answers today and see credible actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we received the answers to the questions that remained in the debate last week; thank you for that. The Minister sketches an image in which the Dutch authorities have actually done everything according to the rules. The mistake, that's the other one. In this case, that is the Belgians and the Turks. We didn't see anything, we didn't hear anything, we didn't know anything, and according to the Minister's answers, we didn't have to. The Netherlands has done what the procedures have to do. However, if we have done what was necessary, I ask the Minister and the Prime Minister. For GroenLinks, this is the crucial question. Shouldn't the minister have wanted to know more? Should the minister have done more? Why didn't they call Turkey themselves? The infamous e-mail was not opened and there was no information from the SIS, but even then the phone could have been picked up. Did anyone at Schiphol even know that El Bakraoui had been evicted from Turkey? On 16 and 17 March 2016, information will be provided by the US and Belgian authorities. Did the Dutch authorities understand at that time that it was the same person who landed at Schiphol Airport on 14 July 2015? What was done then? It remains odd that Ibrahim El Bakraoui will be on the FBI's "watchlist" in September 2015 and that his brother will be wanted for the attacks in Paris as of December 2015, but that the Netherlands did not have any information. There was no exchange of information between 14 July 2015 and March 2016. Has the Netherlands tried to obtain information in any way during this period? I would like to make two more points. Firstly, how is it possible that El Bakraoui, a convicted violent criminal who is arrested on the Syrian border, can decide for himself that he wants to go to the Netherlands instead of to Belgium, his native country? I want the Minister at European level to limit this free travel of potential terrorists and serious criminals. When it comes to refugees, we do not care about Schengen, but when it comes to potential terrorists, Schengen is the problem, according to the Minister. I cannot and will not accept that answer. Secondly, terrorists and serious criminals do not care about borders within Europe. We must recognise that internal security and European security coincide. This means that more information should be exchanged between EU Member States. If a potential terrorist or criminal is on an alert list in one country, he must also be able to be alerted in the other country. In short, national alert and search lists must be linked. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally, "The Netherlands is committed to promoting proactive and systematic exchange of information between European Member States on 'terrorist travel'. This is a quote from the 2014 Integral Approach Jihadism Action Programme. Now the Minister once again concludes that there should have been more proactive, alert and assertive action. So little has come of the 2014 action programme's intentions. That is a sad and tragic finding. How does the Minister judge this? Is not the working group with Turkey, which is not yet working, also an example of inertia and inertia rather than alertness and assertiveness? Once again, I asked a lot of questions after the debate was suspended last week. I hope that the Prime Minister and the Minister of V and J will give sharp answers. I ask the Minister how he is going to ensure that lessons are learned this time and that they are not empty promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today, the debate continues on the occasion of the attacks in Brussels. This debate should deal with the following questions. Are our services in order? What measures are we taking against those who radicalize? It should be about prevention. How do we prevent people from radicalising? How does intervention policy work out? What are we going to do at neighbourhood level to promote integration and prevent segregation? What do we do to make sure that police, youth care and so on are in order? In order, so that people at home feel that the government is doing everything in its power and guaranteeing as much security as possible, so that everyone has the feeling of being able to participate in our society. Unfortunately, that is not what the debate will be about today. There's another question before you. Is this Minister of Security and Justice part of the solution or of the problem? Can this minister get his ministry in order? Once again, questions remain unanswered. Can he finally improve the international exchange of information and inform the House of Representatives? How's he gonna do that? After every terrible attack, it appears that the perpetrators are known and are part of the same international networks. It also appears that the exchange of information is not in order. We also know that the special working group of Dutch and Turkish officials would be working to make agreements. But that working group never got together. Why not? Only last Monday, on 4 April, the Minister made agreements with his Turkish colleagues about providing information about non-Dutch people who are expelled from Turkey to the Netherlands. How come all this is going to take so long? Why not on April 4th? It seems that this minister will not take action until after political fuss. The minister writes that actions have been carried out around the brothers El Bakraoui, so very passive. Since this week, however, we know that the Netherlands knew from January that the brothers El Bakraoui were linked to the attacks in Paris. Why has nothing happened in all these months to apprehend these terror brothers? Why hasn't there been any intervention? Why hasn't there been any active action after more and more information was known? Does the Minister understand that this does not increase the confidence of the people in the cabinet and in this minister? Does he understand that people have no confidence in a minister of security and justice who has to come back to his answers or say in the Chamber that he doesn't know either? Does the Prime Minister understand that people do not believe that Security and Justice in our country are in good hands with this government? What's his reaction to that? According to the Minister, the Special Interventions Service (DSI), the people who have to act immediately when an attack threatens, is in complete order. But the workers, the employees, are so angry about the workload and the working conditions that they have taken up a lawyer. Has the Minister been informed by the right people? Is the Minister sure that investments have come to the right place? Let it be clear that all the people in the front line that day and night are ready for our safety, incredibly bumbling about the past few weeks. The failure of leadership and the apparent lack of coordination mean that we are now having this debate for the third time. I want to hear from the minister how he's gonna put the ministry in order. I want him to acknowledge the problems and to be able to name them. I want to know how he's going to ensure that the Chamber is properly informed. How's he gonna make sure he knows what's going on? In short, my group wants to know whether this minister is part of the solution or of the problem. Because we're not gonna talk about this for another fourth week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. What are we talking about in this debate? Terror threat is and remains, however painful, the order of the day. After Ankara, Paris and Brussels followed. So it's still getting closer. Unwittingly, it affects your sense of security at a football stage, in a museum or on a terrace. Safety isn't fixable. There's a chance of an attack happening. It is all the more important that we can count on a minister who will do everything in his power to control the threat of terrorism, to counter the threat and to prevent attacks. But last week we faced a minister who said more than ten times 'I don't know', while people, when it comes to terror, want to hear a minister who knows exactly what is going on. Of course, mistakes are human, but if things go wrong, will they learn from them? The issue of 'El Bakraoui' has dominated this debate over the past week. For two weeks, the Chamber had to extract information. We had to ask our 234 questions, but the Minister had already finished his assessment: nothing shows that the Netherlands could have done more. For me today, the question is: is this still the line of defence or is there a progressive understanding? I still have questions. Why didn't they call Turkey after we heard from Belgium that a jihadist had returned to the Netherlands? Why was no action taken when the Americans reported on El Bakraoui a week before the attacks? Why are there no clear agreements or protocols with Turkey on jihad fighters, while working groups have been set up for this purpose? Turkey is precisely the country with which you want to settle this properly. Why did Erdogan have to point out the name "El Bakraoui" after the attacks? Why do we still not know where he was between 15 July 2015 and 22 March 2016? Why does the Minister of V and J say that the portal in question is a portal for terrorist threats, while the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that parties are also communicated in this? People want to make sure the minister is in control and on top of it. On this issue, I wonder whether the Netherlands really could not have done more. I asked the Prime Minister last week whether the capacity of the Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport would be sufficient to keep security in order in the summer. For me, the answer was insufficient. I will therefore table a motion asking the Cabinet for a final plan to put the capacity of the service in order so that there are no long queues due to too few staff, and security, as much as possible, is in order. In the meantime, however, I also read that there is a deficit in the Ministry of Security and Justice, whereas this budget was put under curately by both Chambers. That is why I ask: do we do enough, can we resolve this and can we expect a solution to the Spring paper? Finally, the Minister said that no one would benefit if he were replaced now. However, I still see a minister who judges without knowing. I therefore hope that the Minister can guarantee that his services can do what they have to do, that agreements are made and that he is aware of what is happening under his supervision and that we do not have to stand here again after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u7	Madam President. I started this debate last week with the conviction that we would talk about the dark evil of jihadism, about the terrible attacks in Brussels, and about how we, as the Netherlands, should oppose it in order to defend our open free society with a deep conviction, effective security policy and legal and calm determination. I would have liked to have that debate, but the debate was about people very quickly. It was about the Minister of Security and Justice and his suitability. This is mainly due to the cabinet. We were looking at a prime minister who looked at all the important questions about his minister. We were looking at a Minister for Security and Justice who had not sufficiently prepared the debate with the Chamber on such an important subject. I am uncomfortable about the fact that the debate on the attacks has become more of a working conversation with this minister than of a crucial discussion on how to tackle jihadism and terrorism. However, last week's action by the Minister made it inevitable that we should also talk about this, precisely because he is responsible for the fight against terrorism and jihadism. First of all, I would like to ask a number of important questions about the last letter we received. Why didn't all the alarm bells in Europe go off around the Abdeslam network in which El Bakraoui also appeared before the attacks? How is that possible? Why does the Netherlands accept people who are expelled by Turkey without knowing why they were expelled? Why are these exposures from high-risk areas not registered? How is it possible at all that an estimated 2,000 travellers are not registered in Europe? Then there is more to it than the story of the Minister who is reluctantly aware that we should work together a little more intensively here and there in Europe. How can the Minister write that action has been followed on all expulsions from Turkey, whereas in a number of cases it would only have been reported subsequently, as with El Bakraoui? Is there nothing done at El Bakraoui alone? If so, how is that possible? In addition to the issue of El Bakraoui, I am concerned about the Minister's intervention in the debate last week. How can it be explained that some of the information is only now in the Chamber and was not already available last week? I honestly don't understand. The point isn't that last week the Secretary of State got the New York City Police and the FBI mixed up. The point is that the Minister must create confidence that he is asking the right questions to his officials at the right time. This is particularly true if it appears that the information was shared with the Netherlands on 16 March, i.e. five days before the attack. Why don't you ask me before a debate until you know everything? The lack of a sense of urgency worries me. We want a Prime Minister who is also in charge here, who is a leader and who is forcing European cooperation. It is precisely at this time that we want a Minister of Justice who learns from mistakes and intensifys the fight against terrorism and jihadism. We want a minister who not only announces cooperation with Turkey and a working group in the media, but also takes action vigorously. We want a minister who, in a debate, shows that he has also put the critical questions of the Chamber to the services and his staff. That must be made clear to this minister. He must gain that confidence, not only in the Chamber, but also in people in the country. It is now up to the Minister to convince us of this, because people in the country look to him first and foremost for their safety. That makes this debate an intrusive debate for the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u8	Madam President. Could our security forces have done more? Is the system alert enough? And what can we do better in the future? Last week it proved impossible for the Chamber to properly assess the government's response to these questions. Too much information was missing for this, for example what had happened in relation to the expulsion and alerting of one of the main persons in the Brussels attack. Now that all these answers have been received, this assessment can be made in this debate and any lessons can be drawn. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive and detailed answer, but my group still has a few questions. If I had understood the Minister correctly, it would have been different if the exchange of information had been different before and on 14 July 2015. The Royal Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport could have heard Ibrahim el Bakraoui for example, but could have made contact with the Belgians. What would have happened? Or better yet, what wouldn't have happened? And is it or is it not common for the Dutch police to start a search request based on foreign information? The answers are not clear. When are we gonna do it and when are we not gonna do it? Perhaps even more important than clarity on these outstanding points, it is necessary to trust that, in the light of experience, the services do not miss any opportunity to make improvements. The Minister's intentions to this end are sound. But my group is keen that they should also be taken forward. Last week we talked about some examples of legislative proposals that this Parliament still needs to reach. Europe's intentions in particular must not die in beauty. Cooperation in Europe must be made more binding, otherwise nothing will come of it. For example, there should be an obligation to supply the data to Europol's terrorist desk. The approach to radicalisation in large cities of Europe should not be voluntary, as Molenbeek is also located in the Netherlands. What plans does the Dutch Government have for this? If all our security people are equipped, if all the rules are tightened, if all the laws are passed, then it's up to us, to society. There is no more powerful weapon against terrorism than a strong society, but a connected community. There's no secret that that connection is under pressure in all kinds of ways. But the reaction of the Netherlands to terrible events such as such a gruesome attack, are also hopeful. Not only after Brussels, but also before, after Charlie Hebdo or Bataclan, the Netherlands showed great solidarity. Despite attempts by some to sow division and increase hatred among themselves by playing religions and believers against each other, the reaction in the Netherlands was worthy and calm. In schools, in churches, in squares and in mosques, the Dutch of all tastes, of all faiths and all origins were in their disgust. Achmed and Fatima stood shoulder to shoulder with Henk and Ingrid. Let us follow this example here and strengthen it. Make the connectors stronger and the dividers weaker. Defending freedom instead of breaking it down. Raising confidence instead of creating fear. Because the powerful trinity of connection, freedom and trust is ultimately our most powerful weapon that a society can use against terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr Samsom is also right to emphasise the exchange of data, because what we have seen over the last few days and weeks is that it is still lacking. They could be incidents, but they could be structures. Mr Samsom has just spoken about the obligation to report data to Europol. So far, the cabinet has held back a more European and binding approach to cooperation between terrorist services or perhaps even the European design of the terrorist approach. How does Mr Samsom view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u10	Like I said, I think it's time to get rid of the strings. For example, we can really agree that the data available are actually provided by all countries to Europol's terrorist desk. It is not possible for a few countries to supplement 95% of all data. Then you're sure there's a lot missing. The same applies to the exchange of information from intelligence services. Last week, the Minister said that the "hear what" approach had already been pushed into the background. I want to make sure that this "hear what" approach, which leaves information behind, is not leading. But perhaps the most important thing is the approach to radicalisation in our big cities. We are proud of ours, although we still have reasons for concern and many more can improve. Elsewhere in Europe things are really different. I believe that cooperation should also be improved there. You could say that we might need a cooperation agreement for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u11	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Samsom that you need to tackle the whole thing from prevention to repression much more together. That must be done, in particular, for the obligation to take that word over to security services to do so. The Netherlands is now President of the European Union. I would like to call on the cabinet today not only to set it up, but also to take it a step further. This was previously promised by Member States. In this way, we have a positive outcome to this debate and we come from the feeling that intelligence services rely on information for themselves and that the common denominator and the added value of the total are missed. Does Mr Samsom agree with me that this can and should be an important positive outcome of this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u12	Oh, yeah. We have already put this forward in other debates. Perhaps we can even put forward a proposal for this in debate to ensure that the cabinet actually translates our request into proposals in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr. Chairman. The debate following the attacks in Brussels has degenerate into a major review for Minister Van der Steur. It's not the first time. We had the bitch deal, we had the bart of you. case, we had the volkert of the g. photo, we had the george maat issue, and we have the confusion of speech between the fbi and the nypd. The recent career of this minister seems to be littered with banana peels. We at DENK therefore ask ourselves: does this minister have a hand in speaking for his turn? Or is he consistently misinformed by his officials? So I'm gonna drop right into the house with the door: where did all these flaws of beauty come from, all these misinformation? Does the Minister still have control over his administration? And does he still feel that he has the necessary support from his officials? We'll see about that. Banks have a better view of the creditworthiness of citizens than our services have on terrorists. Companies like Google and Apple know more about terrorists than the Ministry of Security and Justice. It lasted six months from July 2015 until an alert was issued on El Bakraoui in January 2016. Prime Minister Colijn once said go to sleep in peace. Now we have a minister who later notes that international cooperation should have been more proactive. But what is proactive cooperation if the minister shifts the primacy to Belgium, literally and figuratively "blaming the victim," if the minister, despite the absence of a protocol, unilaterally shifts the lack of information to Turkey? Where is the proactive role of the Netherlands, except pointing the finger at the other countries? How can it be that the embassy in Ankara is overlooking such an urgent and important message? How is it possible that we didn't have a police liaison in Brussels and we cut the V and J Embassy Council down? How is it possible that we do not read about contacting the Turkish authorities directly on 15 July 2015? Questions, lots of questions. This minister has to prove very quickly that he is the right man in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u14	Madam President. Security is a core task of the government and the threat from jihadist terrorism is great. That is why it is right that Parliament should continue to exercise strong control over this security policy in its implementation and that there should be intense interest in it. We are aware that 100% security is an illusion, but we want to be able to assume that everything is done to ensure that safety is guaranteed as much as possible. Last week, after the debate and the written answer, a lot of questions remained about the way things were going, for example the El Bakraoui brothers. The answer we received then raised many new questions. I would add that the answers we received yesterday in relation to what was further explored and mapped were more of the category that they take away many questions rather than raise many new questions. I am therefore grateful for that. I would like to put the following here and that also characterizes the inconvenience you are experiencing. If it takes that long to gather all that relevant information, the question arises whether this does not prevent an effective understanding of what is going on. Haven't the systems become too complicated if it takes that long? Then what's going on? Then you cannot react very quickly and actively in practice to signals of radicalisation and terrorism? I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on that. What struck me was that the first-term response from the cabinet remained very much in the key to legality. Yeah, it's done by the book. Yes, what had to be done was done. Indeed, even if I get my head straight now, my conclusion is that no major mistakes have been made. But that approach is too narrow, because it is not just about legality. It also calls for a culture that insists on maximum effectiveness. Do we do everything we can to actively identify what is going on when signs of radicalisation and terrorism come in, not only in the systems but also further? That brings me to the question of why was not asked when someone was expelled to the Netherlands, when we did not know very well why that happened. In short, I am pleased that this culture, which looks more than just at legality, also proactively, alertly and assertively at what can be done, is explicitly mentioned in the response of the cabinet. I hope that this will also be reflected in this debate. It is not just about culture, but also about capacity. Then the SGP Group will remain concerned. The district cops are still under a lot of pressure. The mayors of the region have not for nothing called again that there is still a need for an intensification in order to ensure that there is not only one district agent everywhere on every 5,000 people, but sometimes more can be used in areas where more is needed. In addition, it is important that the bottlenecks in the military are not only resolved but also prevented. I also mention the embassy council that was removed in Brussels. Are they not all very useful key figures who, apart from the exchange via the systems, can pick up and pass on signals with common sense and a good network early? Finally. I share the inconvenience of many colleagues, and perhaps everyone, that it has gone too much and is too much, with reasons, about whether the Minister is doing well instead of the question of what is the best policy we can have and what improvements we can put into it. We want to take the ministerial responsibility seriously, we want to be able to keep on asking hard questions about what is coming forward, and at the same time we want to watch for a billing culture in which every snail is put salt. I say this to myself as well as to politics. It is precisely when we think that this is important that we contribute to a culture of a learning organisation, that we do not accept certain mistakes and say that you should not make any mistakes on one part and look at other parts with wisdom afterwards what can be done better and that we are going to do so with full commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u15	Chairman. Sorry, but a minister of security and justice who behaves like a minister of exit is becoming more and more difficult to take seriously as a figurehead of the Ministry of Law and Order. On the first apology, the first apology in October last year, the minister was still on probation. Just too soon for consequences, but when it appeared that the minister and his officials were not on speaking terms. A crucial photo shoot of which numerous officials had been informed for months did not reach the Minister. Instead of being properly informed, the Minister then made an advance on matters which he was not aware of. He was forgiven, also in the context of two coalition parties who could not afford to let go of each other. In December it followed sorry about the Teevendeal, the lost receipt and the unjustified accusation to the ICT department of its own ministry, the department which had to stop its investigation at the request of the higher level. You don't make friends with that, Mr. Chairman. But despite the lack of friends, the Minister was allowed to remain in office. The investigation into the closure of the search has not yet been completed, but the least we can see at the moment is that the Minister is against appearances. In January, the Minister inappropriately responded to reports about a respected forensic professor by expressing accusations without sufficiently knowing the content of the case. Again, the minister went deep through the dust. Sorry, sorry, sorry. In the meantime, it also appears that the fight against terrorism does not seem to be in trusted hands with this Minister of Law and Order. Five months ago, the Minister set up a Turkish-Dutch working group to provide a more intensive approach to jihad fighters. That working group has never come together before. And a ministry that was warned by the U.S. about a potential bomber traveling to Schiphol, but didn't do anything with that warning, that's not a Ministry of Security and Justice, but a Ministry of Security and Justice. A notified ministry counts for two. Perhaps we should just turn it back into two ministries if the Minister is unable to understand himself regularly in crucial matters with his own officials. It would be wise if the Minister no longer harmed the image of politics, especially since his predecessor had to apologize more than was right for him. The Minister might have to take credit for himself if he is serious, so that the superministry that came with the VVD's initiative can no longer continue as a blunder department. Several times the fate of the minister hung by a thread and he got a very last chance from the Chamber, the benefit of a lot of doubt. So how does the Minister intend to regain confidence? Security and justice are not in the interests of a minister who is dwindling. Shouldn't the minister have consequences for his endless series of sorrys? Justice will have to prevail. In this context, I also believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr. Chairman. From Cees H. to Professor Maat and from Bart van U. to Volkert van der Graaf: Minister Van der Steur had to go through the dust four times in a year. The weak performance was painful to see every time. After the first period of this debate, his credibility has virtually evaporated. He misinformed Parliament about the information from American services. Action in the period before the attacks in Brussels was marked by a poignant amateurism. One of the unsubs could enter our country unnoticed and stay here for unknown time. Crucial messages were not read. Even after the cabinet was aware of the essential information from Turkey and the US, no action was taken. We didn't see action, we saw laxity. This suicide bomber chose Brussels, but could also have caused undisturbed death and destruction in the Netherlands. During the last week we again got a flood of clumsy over us. The position of liaison officer at our embassy in Belgium appears not to have been filled out. The DSI anti-terror service is heavily understaffed and there is an increased workload and a sick working environment. The official working group with Turkey has never met. It's to be despondent. How the hell is all this possible? The Minister says again to draw lessons from this, but the majority of Dutch people have already lost faith in his functioning. That is why I would like to hear his answer to the next question. Does he really see himself as the right man to guarantee safety in the Netherlands and, if so, what is that based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had the first half of a debate with a sad occasion: the attacks in Brussels, which cost the lives of dozens of people. A lot of people are still recovering. The impact on the sense of security with our southern neighbours, but also with us, is great. That is why we are holding a debate on this in our Chamber. After all, people expect us politicians to take measures to minimise the risk of an attack. We cannot, however much we would like to, rule out the possibility that such a thing could happen in our country. On a large number of points, the reaction of the cabinet reassured my group. We have discussed in detail the many measures taken and announced by the Cabinet. The Integrated Approach Action Programme Jihadism is an advanced stage and most of the 38 measures are in progress. Unfortunately, however, this debate has also given rise to a diffuse picture, which is why we are debating again here today, after the Minister has answered the supplementary questions of the Chamber. I have already said, after the first period of the debate, that I regret that the image of the people who have followed and followed this debate has emerged. It is precisely on a subject such as security and the fight against terrorism that it must be crystal clear what the government is doing to protect those same citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr Zijlstra says that a large part of the answers reassured his group. Another anonymous image of the feelings within the VVD group was allowed to read in the last weekend. There's a lot of light in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u19	I can never judge what people say anonymously. That is also difficult to control, because it is anonymous. This is not the image of the VVD fraction. I myself am of the category: you better say something in front of a camera than behind a camera. Apparently there are people who have said something, but that is not what the VVD's position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u20	What was said was clear. Whoever said it is indeed unclear. As far as my group is concerned, we are trying carefully to look at the content of the Minister's approach and listen to the answers until the second and, if necessary, third term. However, for the image of the minister's position, which is at least as important, it is not very strong that not only the coalition party of the VVD but even its own party sends out these signals. Moreover, with Mr Zijlstra, I find the way in which this is done rather cowardly. To what extent does the VVD Group think that the image if all the answers were complete and if nothing could have happened, should prevail today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u21	Again, what people say anonymously is very difficult to trace. I am referring to what is said in the VVD Group, for which I am the spokesman, and that is what has been discussed in the group, just as it is in Mr Pechtold's group. That is the line of the whole group, and that is what I am saying here. The Minister's answers came last Tuesday. That is what I am going to talk about; I was talking about the previous debate. In our opinion, many things have already become clear in this debate, but at some point a diffuse picture has emerged. That is what we are talking about today. We believe that many of the answers that have come on Tuesday will provide clarity. The Minister also admits this sometimes, as I say to Mr Pechtold, that things can be done even better. It also shows that sometimes things can't be completely under control. You can read a portal twice a day, but you must have just done it in the three and a half hours between the placement, so to speak, and the fact that Mr. arrived at Schiphol. That is also the practice of everyday life, and it is hard for us as a parliament to expect that you can control it completely. Whoever pretends that is fooling people, I think. However, there are also things that need to be improved. That has been made clear. Mr. Chairman. As I said, we welcome the Minister's answers, but we also have a number of questions that we would like answers to. In answering the questions, the Minister states, inter alia, that he expects the services to be proactive, alert and assertive. Can the Minister explain what he means by that and whether he has the impression that they have not done enough to date? Can the Minister indicate whether the information system is now such that information is provided and read at all times before an evicted person arrives here and has passed through Dutch customs? Let us be honest: once he or she is through it, it will be very difficult within Schengen to find the person, unless he or she runs into the police. I would also like to ask the following question: Mr Klaver has already raised this point. For EU citizens, they can be deported to any country in the EU. That doesn't feel right. Would it not be possible to make an exception to this rule in respect of persons being expelled for reasons relating to terrorism? If that is not possible now, is the cabinet prepared to commit itself to this in Europe? We have freedom in Schengen for people to travel within Schengen, but this is about traveling to Schengen. What possibilities does the Minister see for this? I also asked in the first period what is going on with the Wiv, the Intelligence and Security Services Act, and the possibilities for the services to carry out cable-based surveillance; we have not yet gotten to that during the reply. I have also indicated in the first term that we, as a VVD, will again table a motion to create a legal basis for Syrians, those who have been present on terrorist territory. Let me say the following in the direction of the Chamber. That motion has so far not received a majority. Several parties have clearly asked whether the cabinet and the minister could not have done more, a question which the minister will also have to answer. I hope that parties will wonder if they could have done more themselves if something happens here at some point. I hope that will be a consideration in voting on this motion when it is retabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u22	I would like to return to the first question you asked the Minister. Forgive me for not being able to reproduce it literally, but that question was about the assertiveness and the active attitude of the ministry. Of course, you didn't ask that question for nothing. Could you answer it from the perception of the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u23	The essence of a question is that the Minister gives an answer. If I am going to give an answer myself in advance, I will no longer have to ask that question. So I'm gonna sit back and see what the Minister says on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u24	The same goes for my question, but you don't ask a question like that for nothing. It's coming from somewhere. The VVD Group, too, must live up to the idea that there is no proactive and assertive attitude in various areas. There is every reason to do so, given the three debates we have had in the meantime. Does Mr Zijlstra at least recognise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr Roemer concludes all sorts of things in response to the questions I have asked the Minister. I am simply waiting for the Minister's answer and will only then see if further conclusions are needed. The Minister has created a great deal of clarity, but on this point we would like to hear whether it was sometimes not right. That's what we're gonna hear from the Minister. Then I can undoubtedly see Mr Roemer reappearing at the interrupting microphone in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u26	I'm sure. This fits well with the Minister's answer. I see a passive attitude, not only with the Minister, but also with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u27	In my opinion, even the SP should have the courtesy, if it asks a question to the Minister, to quietly wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u28	Madam President. I would prefer to ask the Minister of Security and Justice directly, to the man, whether this is a blundering of your actions or whether you are the victim of leading officials around you? That question has been going on for 50PLUS for over a week now, not for the first time. If it's up to those officials, what's the Minister gonna do about it? If it's up to him, why is he still here? 50PLUS would like a detailed reflection of the Minister on these questions. Today is the umpteenth time that the Minister has to justify his functioning. This morning, the NOS sent out a montage with his excuses and excuses from the past; unheard of! It is unheard of for safety in the Netherlands and certainly also for his VVD, the party of law and order. In his letter of 5 April, the Minister concluded that wider communication between services in the international context could contribute to combating terrorism within legal powers. We are right to address a key question. 50PLUS has already addressed the conclusions of Gilles de Kerckove, the European anti-terror coordinator. One of his criticisms was that European legislation remains in place in this area, including national legislation. We read about the tightening up of agreements and procedures with countries and all kinds of anti-terrorist bodies, but what is the Dutch government's commitment as a temporary EU President to push for this legislation to be dealt with? Why did it take so long at all? I'd like a response from both the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister. In addition, it remains incomprehensible to 50PLUS that action protocols do not exist and that work is done on the basis of custom and assumptions, without explicit commitment or guarantee. The terrible events in Brussels have brought this to light and agreements with Turkey are being improved. That's disturbing, isn't it? Surely this is not how citizens can trust the terrorist approach? We do not know now whether there are any other areas in which the agreements are insufficient or absent. Do we have to wait for something terrible to happen before defects come to light and something finally changes? Can the Minister explain that correctly? Finally. Is it not naivety when citizens from Schengen countries can simply choose which Schengen country they are expelled from? Someone's getting evicted for a reason, isn't it? 50PLUS wants to amend the Schengen rules as soon as possible. In that respect, I agree with Mr Klaver. If that is not possible, is it not better to suspend Schengen temporarily? In concrete terms, is the government prepared to discuss the amendment of the Schengen rules in the very short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u29	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about an hour. I propose that we suspend for an hour and then have a short lunch break. Then we would be starting work again here at 12.45 p.m. I see Mr Pechtold. I expected someone to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u30	And there he is. Perhaps I express the feeling of many, when I say that an hour and a half is quite a lot. Can't we keep it at an hour? Then we'll have lunch in between, exceptionally a bit earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u31	It's more about the staff and not so much about us, but if everyone thinks so, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u32	I do not rule out the need for a suspension between the second and third deadlines in the Chamber. I'll give it to you in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u33	That's fine.
