ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service, the members and the people in the public gallery. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Bashir on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. We now have almost two Cabinets-Rutte behind us. This minister's been in "K" for four years. It is his last missionary budget, and I would like to look not only ahead of this budget debate, but also certainly back on the performance of this minister. Good things have certainly happened in recent years. For example, the Housing Act, which included a number of important recommendations and conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations, a committee of inquiry on which I and Mr Van Vliet were members. For example, tenants and local authorities gained more control over housing policy. Positive are also the first steps taken to address the mortgage interest rate deduction, which was previously a taboo. However, the SP would have done it differently. We would have chosen to limit the deduction for those who do not need it, while at the same time guaranteeing the deduction for those who cannot do without it. But it's nice that a start has been made on the approach to mortgage interest relief. Unfortunately, the cabinet has also broken down a lot in recent years. This has been at the expense of tenants, house seekers and housing corporations. Much has been demolished, too much sold and too little built. The stock of social housing has narrowed and the gap between tenants and buyers is widening, so that the flow does not start. Moreover, the rents have increased. All these points I walk past, and I start with the rents. The promise of the government agreement of the cabinet was as follows: "As a final piece, we create a clear and sustainable framework for the buying and rental market. This is how we put an end to the prevailing uncertainty." In six years' time, housing housing rentals increased by 28.8%. That's $117 a month. Is that sustainable, I ask the Minister. Tenants are having more and more trouble getting around. This applies not only to low incomes but also to middle incomes. Half a million households have lost half their income to housing costs. Is that what the cabinet means by "tenable"? After years of absurd rent increases it is time to return the money to tenants. So stop the landlord's tax. This is a tax on social housing. With half of the rental charge you can reduce the rent by €400. The SP therefore wants to take a first step in 2017 and give all social tenants a rent reduction of €200. What is the government's reaction to this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u3	That's something. With regard to the rent increases mentioned by Mr Bashir, he does not mention the 570 million added to the rent payment. How's that? How did he calculate that, and how is he going to cover the rent reduction of €200?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u4	Indeed, as the rents increase, the cost of the rent surcharge increases. That is a logical consequence, if you increase those rents because every year the landlord levy has to raise 1.7 billion for the Minister's budget. But if you want to stop pumping money around, you just have to do something about the system. That is why we are proposing to abolish the landlord's tax, which applies only to social landlords. A housing corporation that has non-social housing, i.e. housing with rents above the liberalisation limit, does not pay any tax on this. It is a tax that affects only the social tenants. We think that's unfair. How are we gonna pay for that? We want to pay it by proposing an amendment to the Tax Plan which increases the tax on profits for large companies and multinationals by 1%. This will generate 590 million euros, which we can use to reduce the rents. That's 200 euros per social rental house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u5	I would ask Mr Bashir to be more careful when he criticises the cabinet. The increases that people have faced have largely been offset by the rent surcharge for the lowest incomes. I find it very careless that Mr Bashir does not mention it. For the rest, we agree that we can think about pumping money around, so raise on the one hand and grant rent surcharge on the other. I will be speaking about this myself later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u6	The rent allowance only compensates for part of the increase in rental costs. That is precisely why half a million households have lost half their income to housing costs. That's more than before. More and more people are struggling to make ends meet. You can always point out that the rent payment has also increased, but the fact is that more and more people are struggling to make ends meet. If Mr De Vries agrees with me that we need to do something about pumping money around, then we need to do something about the landlord levy. That is a tax that affects only the social landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u7	I have a brief question for Mr Bashir. I have submitted a counter-budget calculated by the CPB. Unfortunately, the SP didn't do that. So I'm afraid it's again a matter of "SP = Saint and Peter" and there's being sprinkled with pennies that aren't there. In my counter-budget calculated by the CPB, I am, among other things, canceling the allowance. The SPs won't be able to subtract their paychecks. That's worth 700 million euros. Isn't that a better way to cover such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u8	I was just accused of being careless. Mr Van Vliet must also be more careful. The gift deduction is not only about the gifts of politicians, but also about donations you make to charities, for example. We think it's important to support charities. That's why the gift deduction was devised. I fully agree with Mr Van Vliet on the abolition of the allowance for politicians. Let's do that right now. However, this does not yield EUR 700 million. I can assure Mr Van Vliet that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u9	I assume the SP means this as a serious plan, that scrapes off that amount of rents. I understand that that is a year, otherwise it would cost 50 billion. Wouldn't it be better for the CPB to pass this on to all possible effects? Mr Bashir knows that the income effects will not be taken into account. That goes for me, too. I have reduced the income tax by 1% in my counter-budget, but because the income effects are not included, I have covered this by, among other things, removing the deductions. Wouldn't it have been better for the SP to pass this on? Then we could really have had a serious debate about this perhaps interesting plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u10	The SP election programme is also likely to be passed on by the CPB. Mr Van Vliet can then study that and take advantage of it. I checked the CPB's archives. It contains a number of credit transfers, including investments in construction. The landlord's tax is 2 billion. Half of them we want to use to lower the rents. The other half we want to use to build social housing. This results in effects. I quote from a 2009 CPB note. If you invest 1 billion in construction, this will lead to "0.5 billion additional revenues from higher VAT payments on additional investments (...) and more payroll taxes thanks to the increase in employment." So you have huge earning effects. Looks like you lost $2 billion right away, but you only lost part of that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u11	The PVV also thinks that the rents have increased far too far. Of course, that costs the people living in a rental house a lot of purchasing power. That is why I wholeheartedly support the reduction in rents. We, too, have a plan for this. We could hang out in that together. We want 1 billion off the landlord's tax. Well, that'll have to go back to the tenants. We believe that this could bring about €500 a year in rent reduction for an average tenant. That's a lot of extra purchasing power, which would be good for our economy. That is where we agree. However, we do not want to take the money away from people with a house for sale or from companies, who therefore, of course, flee the Netherlands again. Isn't it much better to cover it, for example, by limiting immigration or reducing payments to Brussels? Is the SP in favour of looking together for a cover that is good for both of us, which does not affect Dutch citizens and companies and in which we can move together to lower those rents? Is the SP prepared to discuss this with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u12	It was the PVV that helped to introduce the landlord tax in 2010, which is now affecting the social tenants. It was the PVV that caused the rents for certain groups to increase by 5%. So it's remarkable that the PVV now supports the SP where it's about lowering the rents, but it's always nice when it comes from an unexpected angle of support. That's always welcome. However, there must be a proper justification for the way in which these costs are paid. We propose that the multinationals and large companies should contribute slightly more, i.e. 1%. If you ask for an extra 1%, you get 590 million euros. We can use that as the first step to lower rents next year. If the PVV says she has better cover, I'd like to see it. However, I do not believe that in the myths about immigration and Brussels, which would immediately yield money. If the PVV has a cover, let's see it. Maybe we can take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u13	I hear some rhetoric from the SP about the past. You also know that this is not true at all, Mr Bashir. The landlord's tax we had was very small compared to what it is now. We have always argued for rent restrictions and therefore rent reductions. However, that is not the answer I want to hear from Mr Bashir. We're in agreement. We want to lower the rents. He wants €400 and we want €500 reduction in the rent for an average tenant of a social rental house. So we're agreed, but now cover. I made a proposal. If we limit immigration now, we can cover it from there. I haven't heard of you clearly yes or no. Are you prepared to discuss with us about limiting immigration and paying the cost of the rent reduction, Mr Bashir? Are you willing to do that? Can we agree on that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u14	Mr Madlener contradicts himself. He says that what I'm saying is wrong and then he says that the landlord tax he proposed was just a little bit. Mr Madlener also says: we raised the rents, but it was only a little. I have the facts in front of me. It was the PVV who invented the landlord tax, along with the rest of the coalition parties at the time. It was also the PVV that increased the rents by 5%. If Mr Madlener says that we should use the proceeds of an immigration stop, I can see the images of what that means. This means, therefore, that we apparently have to let refugees who are looking for safe refuge in the Netherlands sleep on the streets in some way in order to get certain returns. I can't see that. I don't see a country where people have to sleep on the street. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot support the PVV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u15	Before I give Mr Houwers the opportunity to interrupt, I would ask Mr Bashir if he can answer the questions a little shorter and more compactly. That's gonna help us all tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u16	We're gonna do our best. We are going to talk about the landlord's tax separately. However, I am a little concerned that Mr Bashir is apparently getting involved in the corporation cart by saying every time that the landlord's tax would not be good. It turns out that corporations can eventually invest, although they might need to do so even more. That is not my question, however. Mr Bashir says that half a million people have lost half their income on rent. My first question is whether that is without taking into account the rent allowance they receive. My second question is why is he only looking at the rent. For those people, it's about housing costs. A lot of these people live in poorly isolated homes. Then why should we not invest a little more in order to reduce the energy costs for those people? What is Mr Bashir doing about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u17	It's about the net housing costs. Indeed, we have had a wide-ranging discussion here on energy performance compensation. It can be an impulse, but unfortunately the way in which the bill has now been put into shape ensures that only the landlords benefit from it and not the tenants. I just want the tenants to benefit from that. I also wonder whether the energy performance compensation will be a success. I do not think it will be, precisely because almost all the proceeds go to the landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u18	Is Mr Bashir then prepared to consider alternatives so that energy-saving measures can be taken that lead to lower housing costs? That's actually what he wants. He doesn't just want the rents down, I understand. In the end, it's about living expenses. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u19	Of course. It's about what's left of the tenant in his wallet. In recent years, the rents have risen dramatically and we want to do something about it. In the debate on the energy performance compensation, I tabled a proposal that part of the proceeds should also go to the tenant, so that the tenant would improve. I therefore entirely agree with Mr Houwers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u20	Mr Bashir immediately spends the amount he finds. Let's just assume he finds it and it's not free beer. He immediately spends it on a rent cut, but the question is whether that solves the problems. At the moment the waiting lists are huge and too little is being built. Wouldn't it be better to spend part of that money on building and investing in extra homes? Wouldn't it be much better and more efficient to spend the money that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u21	Next year's landlord's tax will be 1.7 billion and it will amount to 2 billion. Our proposal is to use half that money to lower rents. This can reduce the rent of social housing corporations by €400 per household. The other half we want to use to stimulate the construction. Mr Ronnes knows that if you encourage construction with the landlord levy, you can borrow a multiple because you are dealing with solvency ratios. That means you can invest a multiple of that 1 billion. I have just quoted the CPB on this, namely that with 1 billion investment 5 000 jobs are created. So if you can invest 5 billion, you're talking about 25,000 jobs. It also generates a lot of money in the form of VAT and payroll taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u22	I'm trying to figure out the sum. I'll peel it off. The SP cancels the landlord's tax. That is 2 billion, as Mr Bashir has just said. Of these, 1 billion is used to reduce rents and the other billion is an investment obligation. Now Mr Bashir has just shown a CPB somme with a revenue effect of 500 million: 2 billion, minus 1 billion, minus 1 billion and then 500 million in revenue effects. In that case, I'm missing 1.5 billion. How's the SP gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u23	Now two things are getting mixed up. In our election programme, which is presented on Thursday, we propose to abolish the landlord's tax, use half of it to lower the rent and use the other half to build. We cover this with all kinds of measures. For example, the increase in bank tax alone will yield 1 billion. We want to do something about large assets, about multinationals and about the mortgage interest deduction for expensive houses. We can use it to raise a lot of money. We now have the debate on the 2017 budget, but next year we want to take a first step. For this we want to reduce the rents by €200. That costs 500 million and we cover it by increasing the tax on profits by 1%. I shall propose this by means of an amendment to the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u24	A clear story. This means that there is indeed a gap of 1.5 billion in the landlord levy, but that this gap is covered in other ways, e.g. by increasing other taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u25	That's right. But that is not what we are doing in the Tax Plan, but in our election programme for 2018 and beyond. You can't give the construction an impetus at once by adding 2 billion or 5 billion. It also needs preparation time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u26	Mr Bashir, were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u27	No, I'm just getting started. I'm going to prosecute it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u28	I do not think that is entirely the case either, but go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u29	The promise of the cabinet from the coalition agreement was: we bring a fair and well-run housing market into reach. How's the flow coming? It didn't get started, did it? In 2013 and 2014, 8% less moved than before. The number of relocations has decreased. People are stuck in their homes and being milked with towering rents. Where are these tenants going? Is that what the cabinet means by a fair housing market? If not, why do tenants in the free sector not receive rent protection? The SP wants the gap between tenants and buyers to be reduced. For different groups, buying houses become unreachable, while they also cannot get a social rental house. More and more people are falling between the shore and the ship. They make too much money for social housing, but they don't have enough money to buy a house. That's why I'm pleading for a pass on the spot. The maximum mortgage in relation to the value of the property should not decrease further as regards the SP fraction. The loan to value, so the LTV, must remain at 102%, so starters can also opt for a store. Buyers have to redeem everything within 30 years. So the LTV drops automatically. This proposal should appeal to the Liberal Minister. It also helps to initiate the flow. I'd like a response from the Minister. Unlike the government agreement, there is no well-run housing market. The waiting lists for social housing have increased. The average waiting list is eight years. The promise of the coalition agreement was that the social stock would be maintained. Unfortunately, none of that has happened. In six years the stock has decreased with 262,000 social housing units. The number of sales of social housing is huge. A lot of houses have been sold to investors. Why has the promise of the coalition agreement not been fulfilled? Why was the stock reduced? In Rotterdam there will soon be a referendum on the demolition of rental houses. The city council of Rotterdam has decided to sell or demolish 20,000 social rentals. I don't understand. And that while there are huge waiting lists. Affordable living is priority number one as far as the SP is concerned. Rotterdam must not only become a city for the rich. Rotterdam must remain a city for everyone. I therefore call on all Rotterdamers to stop the demolition of the 20,000 social housing units. So let's hear your voice on November 30th. Not only have thousands of rental homes been sold to investors, but also a lot of housing has been liberalised. The number of properties with a rent higher than €710 has doubled in six years. Between 2012 and 2015, 4,500 rental homes were liberalised; a direct consequence of the policy of this cabinet. How's it gonna reverse this? What is also detrimental to the number of social housing units is that the construction has virtually fallen silent. In the municipality of The Hague, for example, only 34 social housing units were built in 2014. Absurd little. The decline in construction is also bad for employment. Since 2008, about 100,000 jobs in construction have gone up in smoke. Does the government realize that their extra tax on social housing has not only increased the housing shortage, but also made construction workers lose their jobs? As I said, we want to use half the landlord's tax for the lower rents. The other half we want to use to build more affordable rentals. Then the waiting lists dwindle and the housing shortage can disappear. How's the cabinet looking at this? In a time of tension in society and growing division, there must be long-term neighbourhood policy. However, this cabinet has turned off all the cash taps. Why does the cabinet maintain the division and cultural segregation? In what way will the Minister ensure that there is more security and liveable neighbourhoods? How is the cabinet going to make sure that mixed construction is done? Why does the cabinet want to half the financial contribution to the Rent Commission in two years? A well-functioning rental dispute committee is very important in terms of the SP. I'd like a response. It's not all bad and bad, because I see housing corporations, tenants, landlords and builders working hard. They are committed to a social society with sufficiently affordable, safe and energy-efficient homes in a pleasant neighbourhood. All these efforts were not made by the cabinet, but often in spite of the cabinet. If I take stock, I can only conclude that it is time for a better and more social choice. It is time for fair housing with equal opportunities for all. It's election time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u30	I have a question following the SP's plan to lower the rents. I spoke to a friend of mine this morning. Together with his wife he earns about two and a half times a fashion and lives in a rental house. He is nice from his student time stuck in a nice location, a huge skewer. Will this friend of mine also receive the €200 rent reduction from the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u31	Mrs Schouten's friend also gets the rent cut. The reason for that is simple. We want to keep the arrangement very simple. If we are going to highlight all these and those of Mrs Schouten, we cannot easily implement a regulation. We have a progressive income tax in this country. That friend of Mrs Schouten's, who makes a lot of money, therefore pays more taxes in proportion. We do not think that social housing is an instrument for implementing income policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u32	That friend of mine contacted me and he said: I'm about to buy a house, but if the SP plan goes on, I'll just sit tight, because I'll be much cheaper every month. I understand, therefore, that Mr Bashir is encouraging that someone with two and a half modes does not buy a store but stays in a social rental house, which is not actually intended for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u33	I've just made proposals to get the flow going. The LTV, the value of your mortgage against the value of your home, may be 102% right now. That will be 101% next year and 100% the following year. So you have to put in more of your own money to get through. That's exactly what you're gonna put up thresholds in the flow. To counter that, it has been proposed to keep the LTV at 102%. That proposal meets Mrs Schouten's friend. Our proposal is very simple. In recent years there have been huge rent increases and we want to reverse them by giving all tenants of a social housing corporation a rent reduction. It doesn't matter if your income is low or high: everyone gets it €400. If we want to pursue income policy, we have other instruments, such as income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u34	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u35	Oh, is it in two?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u36	We have been doing it in two all evening and I would like to keep it that way, because we are only dealing with the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u37	I understand that, Mr President, but I just want to conclude that it is time for elections and that even the highest incomes are given to the SP. Well, that's news for the election, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u39	It's also an inconsistency. Mr Bashir of the SP now says: income policy we do with taxes. At the same time, he proposes to reduce the rents due to income policy. Then I don't get it anymore. Is it now income policy through taxes or income policy through the rents?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u40	In recent years, the rents of social housing corporations have increased by an average of 28.8%. In order to correct that, we propose to reduce the rents once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u41	Mr Bashir just said something else. He said he wants to pursue income policy with income tax. I think that this is a sensible starting point, which is contrary to everything the SP has said in recent years, but that aside. If that is the basis of the SP, Mr Bashir must also be consistent. Then he has to say that he's going to give a $400 relief for everyone, whether you're Mrs Schouten's friend who's crooked, someone with welfare benefits or someone who owns a buy house. Then it is consistent policy. Now income policy is through rents and income policies through income tax, and the rest we all pay through taxes on banks and companies. That's the story. I don't think it's very consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u42	I come with a very logical and simple proposal, namely: we are going to reduce the rents for everyone. Then there are all small things taken out: but what do you do with that one person in a social rental house that makes way too much money? Most people in social housing have low incomes. To punish all of them now because only Mrs Schouten's friend is also in a social rental house, I really think that goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u43	That's not my point. My point was that Mr Bashir was right to say that we are doing income policies through taxes and surcharges. I would welcome that, but I note that the SP is doing something else. They do income policies through the rents or through their own risks. I think that's very unwise. That is also completely contrary to what he has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u44	We are indeed pursuing income policy through income tax. Soon Mr Koolmees will be able to study our electoral programme in detail and see that we are doing something about the growing income and wealth inequality. But the rents have risen tremendously in recent years. Therefore, it is justified to reduce the rents once only. That's what we do with €400.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u45	Mr Bashir indicated that he wanted to promote the flow by keeping the loan to value at 101%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u46	102%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u47	102%. That means he's making a 1% difference. This means that someone with a house of €100,000 or €200,000, €1,000 or €2,000 would have to bring in their own money. Does Mr Bashir seriously think that that is the difference? If you want to promote flow, shouldn't you rather make sure that there is an attractive offer and that it's interesting for those people to look for something else? It's not him in that $1,000 or $2,000 own money, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u48	The LTV was 106% a few years ago. For a house of €150,000 you could borrow €9,000 extra. By now, that's 102%. In a number of years, that'll be 100%. We say keep this at 102%. We'll make a pass on the spot. Indeed, that saves €3,000 for someone who buys a house, but that also means that he has other costs, such as financing costs, notary costs, costs for the National Mortgage Guarantee, costs for closing the mortgage, you name it. That difference may be too small in Mr Houwer's view, but I can imagine that a lot of people benefit from it so much that they do not occupy a social housing house for a few months or six months, but flow through and buy a house for sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u49	Mr Bashir does not comment on my comment on the wider offer, which I believe is more important than the loan to value. This loan to value also protects buyers. That is also something Mr Bashir completely ignores against perhaps irresponsible expenditure, in the sense that buyers have a greater debt than they have when they are outside the notary. Because of that 102%, they have at least 2% less ownership than what they have in value. My question remains whether this flow doesn't go much better if you provide more supply. Isn't that the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u50	More offer would be great, of course, but if you don't have the money, you don't have that much more offer. And also realize that tax legislation now requires people to pay off the mortgage in 30 years. The mortgage of that person who is outside the notary's house and then goes to his house is already below 100% within a few years. In ten years, it'll probably be under 90%. In 30 years, there's nothing left of that mortgage. We want flow and that 2% can just make the difference for someone to buy or not to buy. I fully agree with Mr Houwers that we need to make more offers, but the money must also be there. It is a small change with, I think, major positive effects, so I hope for the support of Mr Houwers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u51	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u52	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is such a beautiful country. Most Dutch people have their own home, in which they can live as they wish. Who doesn't want to buy can rent. That gives the certainty and ease that you can also move quickly, for example for a new job. If you actually have too little money to rent, you can go to social housing. We are proud of that, because housing is a fundamental right. But you don't want a fundamental right, you don't want accommodation; you just want to live in a nice house in a nice neighborhood, preferably close to work, so you can eat at night with your kids. Or you'd rather live in the street with your parents, because you're a caregiver and can be called out of your bed at night. When you get older yourself, you might want to live a little smaller or bigger, or next to a mall. People who want something in their lives have to move. When this cabinet arrived in 2012, that was just not possible. The housing market was a mess. A third of the stores were underwater, with an average of €60,000. You couldn't take that debt to another house, even if it was financially wise. The alternative, the free rental sector, was neglected for decades. Aldermen preferred to do business with corporations. Big investors, like your own pension fund, didn't even get involved. And so most tenants depended on the social rent, on the sector in which corporate directors could play Santa Claus, landlord or project developer at will. This sector not only interfered with houses for people with a small wallet, but also with the free rent, merchant houses and shopping centers. Big risks and big mistakes were passed on to tenants. Those tenants also started to wonder whether it is normal for you to continue to use this social provision with an income of €70,000 per year. Four years ago, the housing market was as flexible as a lead door and that door was firmly locked. In four years, what has improved incredibly much! This coalition has brought peace and security to the housing market. It's a piece of the Minister's honor. We've laid down the rules for mortgages for 30 years. Whoever buys a house knows what he's up to for 30 years. Your mortgage is just straight forward again. You pay interest, you pay off a little every month, and that's how your retirement's gonna be free. That makes you financially resilient. In these four years we have also intervened in the social rent. The importance of the ordinary tenants with a modest income had gotten in the background. Vestia was the drop we needed to knock down the whole bucket. Corporals can't have any more adventures. They should focus on the target group. The other way around, we are trying to encourage people who are not in the target group, including Mrs Schouten's friend, to move. Everything has been taken off house: targeted rent increase, temporary leases, income tests, matching tests. The result is that people with modest incomes are being re-examined. I see the pride of corporations is back, too. We have also taken steps in the free rent. That segment has been neglected for decades. Liberalisation has contributed to a segment that is much more mobile than social rents and that quickly responds to what people are looking for. Two-year contracts make the segment attractive to new providers. In some large cities we now also assign extra points to small apartments, so that we can help people with a job quickly to shelter. What a beautiful country the Netherlands is! But it can always be nicer. During the 2014 budget debate, I outlined my ideal. I said: "If you get a job in Amsterdam today, you must be able to rent an apartment there tomorrow. Anyone who can afford a store tomorrow should be able to get a mortgage next week. Anyone who wants to build a house next week must be able to have a permit next month." We have come a long way in four years, but as long as this ideal has not yet been realized, we have work to do, for example in the purchasing sector. It's going really well. People have faith in it. The low interest rate helps, of course, but the recovery in the Netherlands is remarkable. We want everyone to benefit from this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u53	I have listened very carefully to the story of Mr Van der Linde, but it seems to me as if people live in two worlds. There are waiting lists at the rental market. There are huge price increases in the areas where housing pressure is high. The middle segment is bad off the ground. Can Mr Van der Linde speak of a successful journey over the last four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u54	I wonder where Mr Ronnes has been for the last four years. Why don't you put yourself in the situation of a simple tenant who wanted to buy a house four years ago? He has every choice now and can get another mortgage. I also mention thezzp'ers and the flex workers. It's not quite finished yet, but we've done so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u55	Mr Ronnes, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u56	Unfortunately, it sounds more beautiful than it is. I have to say that whole groups of people have a bad mortgage, that the rules have become very rigid and that there is no room for a lot of people in the rental market. I think that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u57	I share the issue of mortgages. I'll say something about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u58	The VVD tries to paint the picture that it saved the housing market in the Netherlands. On a chart of price developments in the Netherlands, however, I see that when this cabinet took office, the fall in house prices was accelerated precisely by all the measures to make it more difficult to obtain a mortgage. I am thinking here of limiting the mortgage interest rate deduction, when you promised that you wouldn't get it, and imposing much stricter requirements so that people couldn't get a mortgage at all. If you have seen the ING report, you have read that it is very foolish to take such measures in a declining housing market. Did you read that ING report from a few weeks ago? It says that the stupid policy of the cabinet is to take such measures in a declining market. And do you agree with me that this cabinet is now benefiting from an increasing house price, but has itself caused the house price in the Netherlands to fall so much, whereas in the countries around us this was not the case at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u59	When this cabinet arrived, the mortgage interest relief was under attack. Left-wing parties would have preferred to remove the deduction altogether. Ordinary hard-working people would have been the victims of that. The VVD didn't want that to happen. We just made the mortgage interest deduction future-proof. People now know what they're up to 30 years ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u60	You'd almost say the Prime Minister's "sorry" wasn't really necessary. The VVD's promise was correct not to interfere with mortgage interest rates, but you did so in a housing market that was already falling. In doing so, you have deepened the crisis in the Netherlands, not only because of all the increases in charges but also because of the measures on mortgages. I would ask you to read the ING report and take lessons from it, so that the VVD does not make this kind of stupid mistake again in any future cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u61	I note that the housing market is going crazy and that overheating is now threatening to become a bigger problem than the normal development we all want. So I do not understand what Mr Madlener is talking about. As I said, we want everyone to benefit now that things are going well. People dare to invest in their homes again. They build a rooftop or a bay window or they build an entire house. Those are big decisions for an average family. Two weeks ago, we held a round table on the Quality Assurance Act. That law should give those families more certainty, because one year after delivery you will only discover a major structural flaw in the knowledge that your contractor is already bankrupt. Or at the time of delivery, you didn't see any ventilation valves missing, and the contractor says it's really nice you should've seen that. That situation is not gonna happen again. A house becomes a product like a car: handsomely complicated, but the supplier just has to make sure it's okay and you can guarantee it. I therefore hope that we will be able to deal quickly with the Quality Assurance Act. If we are talking about this, let's talk about building bridges, the fine you have to pay to the municipality for a building permit. In one municipality you pay hundreds of euros for a rooftop, while in the other municipality it is free. For large new construction projects, the fee may be up to 10% of the take-up sum. I cannot explain this fine anymore, not to the pension fund that wants to invest in free rent and certainly not to a family that has planned a renovation. The VVD wants this point arranged to the left or right. Bouwleges cannot become the milk cow of the municipality. I therefore ask the Minister to address this issue in detail. Of course, construction control has to be paid, but why these idiotic differences between municipalities? Are such other costs actually incurred per municipality? Or are conscious choices made to impose additional burdens on certain buildings? Do municipalities hold on to building platforms? If so, how many? And if we're gonna take care of building control differently, then the rates should really be able to go down, I think. We also maximized the price of a passport or driving licence. Why don't we do that with construction ledges?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u62	Of course, the Labour Party prefers to solve it left-hand. We agree that the builders need attention. However, we must also look at the other side. Mr Van der Linde only looks at the importance of the builder and the buyer of a house. The municipalities also have a device to maintain a number of tasks. Does Mr Van der Linde see anything to include in this law that the consequences for the municipalities will be investigated and, if necessary, compensated if we bring down the construction fee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u63	I'm just looking from the perspective of the resident of the house. That could be someone in the social rent. That could be someone in the free rent. That could be the owner of a grocery store. Eventually, as a resident, you're gonna turn up for the builder's sledges. They must have come from somewhere. I do not understand why it costs hundreds of euros in one municipality to build a rooftop cape and that is free in the other municipality. That is the most important question I am asking. With the new law, that would no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u64	We agree on that. The costs are shifting: in the future, the builder will carry out all these checks and will charge them. The question is what the final effect is for the builder, the buyer and the municipality. My proposal is: let's include an article in the law to investigate those effects, with the aim of lowering the construction legs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u65	Large builders already do this themselves, parallel to the municipalities. Those costs are already being incurred. I guess it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u66	Then it's free beer. If the costs are removed somewhere and are not compensated anywhere, then the sum is wrong. On this point, Mr Van der Linde, in the view of the Labour Party, is now failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u67	My point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u68	Finally, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u69	My point is that those costs no longer need to be incurred. In the end, that's why it's the resident. The resident is entitled to rest and clarity. I'll be on the mortgages. Laws and rules are unreasonable at the moment. The 65-year-old who wants to take a ton mortgage to a new but smaller house has to be tested as if he is still in the labour market. If he doesn't want to take a ton but needs a bridge financing, he won't be helped by his bank. There's no clarity about a silver mortgage at all. The same applies to a houseboat mortgage, for which there is currently only one bank in the market. I know that banks have done a lot in recent years for flex workers andzzp'ers, but they also run into the boundaries of regulation. Customisation outside the fixed frameworks is cumbersome and expensive for a bank. Mr Aukje de Vries and I have already tabled motions on this subject. Written questions are also open to the Minister for Finance. Can the cabinet inform us before the end of the year what changes to the temporary mortgage credit scheme are realistic? And how temporary is such a temporary arrangement anyway? We are not finished with social housing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u70	Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u71	I'm just starting social housing. I gotta go. I gotta go. I gotta go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u72	I thought it would be interesting to ask the VVD spokesperson a question about the previous point. Future buyers, starters must save for a long time before they can buy a house. I suggested keeping the LTV at 102%, so that the flow continues and people don't unnecessarily occupy a rental house but buy the house they were looking for, then go to pay off and get rid of their debt within 30 years. Can I get the support of the VVD for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u73	I didn't actually see him coming from the SP. So I was gladly surprised. In a meeting I once said: if you buy a house, you would also like to have a new kitchen in it. This is also good for the economy. I am terrified that we are going to make the next move, namely that the Dutch Bank gets its way and we are going to talk again about loan-to-value ratios of 80%. Then we really have a problem. If we can at least ensure that it stays at 100%, then 102% may also be mine; wonderful plan; and if we can fight together against that 80%, then we are partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u74	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u75	That 80% is out of the question at all. The proposal now is not to reduce it to 100% but to keep it to 102%. It is also not necessary to lower it, because it automatically gets lower. People have to pay their dues. The concerns that Mr Van der Linde has at the moment are therefore not necessary at all. I'd say let's stick together on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u76	May I pass this on to the Minister as a question? There is also a question of coverage, because the deductibility is linked to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u77	You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u78	Yes. I came to social housing, and I will undoubtedly find Mr Bashir on my way again. We have given people on low incomes more security, but too many people outside the target group of social housing are making improper use of the system. These are people who have been renting €400 a month in the centre of Amsterdam for years, but who actually live nine months a year in Spain, Turkey or on the Veluwe and illegally rent out their property. Those people have to cancel their rent. Every year 12,000 people join in that city. The VVD wants people to be able to live near their work or other obligation. This applies not only to Amsterdam. This applies to every city in the Netherlands. Most people with a little more money wouldn't mind passing through. They then look in the free rental sector; this has already been mentioned. It is time to put even more energy into that sector, especially in houses between €700 and €1,100 per month. Big investors, including our own pension funds, are lining up. I would like to mention a number of steps that we can take next year, before or after the elections. First of all, let corporations finally withdraw from the free rent. I welcome the Minister's intention to reduce the influence of municipalities on disposal, as long as these houses remain affordable. But the VVD really wants to go one step further. As far as we are concerned, we reduce the social rent to houses to about €600 per month. That's really affordable for the small wallet. Secondly, we need to do much more for the new building. It is wonderful that the Minister makes a separate category "free rent" for zoning plans. This category also comes in residential visions and performance contracts. However, many municipalities still apply separate, low land prices for social rent. The cost of this is simply passed on to free rental, on sale and on business premises. I don't think that's what this time of year is all about. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether this can be reduced? Thirdly, we still have a lot to gain in rental rights. If you rent an apartment of €900 per month, you can then contact the Rent Commission to negotiate that rent downwards. This procedure costs the tenant €25, but the landlord is the pisang because he immediately pays €450. It eats away at my sense of justice. We don't need a point system in free rental. The Rent Committee should be there for vulnerable groups, not for people who can pay €900 per month. It just has to be much easier to agree on a rental price, to agree on a rental period and to arrange other details. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, and in order to keep that country beautiful and to make it more beautiful, we have also been working on an efficient, service-making government in recent years. If we expect all Dutch people to tighten their belts in a crisis, the government must do the same. The government had to be smaller and cheaper. The Minister has achieved many of his goals. That's worth a compliment. 29 national monuments were handed over to the National Monument Organisation. The preparations for the renovation of the Binnenhof can start. The ICT testing agency, or BIT, now provides a stream of mostly critical reports. Several changes within the state service are on course. At the request of the VVD, the Minister will indicate next year in the Annual Reporting Company Rijk to what extent we are on track in reducing the equipment costs compared to the targets for 2018. However, there are still points of interest. In the field of ICT, a large number of trainees and other ICTs are attracted to strengthen the Empire. However, there is also a strong need for high-quality ICT experts who can lead large projects and act as partners for external parties. I would like to hear from the Minister how he will ensure that this heavy expertise is sufficiently present and that the necessary budgets are sufficient. After all, the budget for staff of the income-burden agency Logius is barely increased. We hear that it is difficult to get the necessary experts within the current pay scales. Does the Minister recognise this image and, if so, what solution does he see? For the government officials, after four years of standstill at the beginning of this year, there was fortunately again room for salary increases. Part of the collective agreement was the agreement to work towards the next collective agreement on an agenda for strategic personnel policy. The current collective agreement expires at the end of this year. Question to the Minister: where are we on that agenda? And most of all, I am referring to the intention to link the reward more closely to the function of the employee. Finally, I have a few words about the master plans for state housing offices. At the request of the Chamber, the Minister gave detailed information on the impact of the policy and indicated that no adjustment of the plans is now necessary. The Chamber had no objection this summer that the Minister would carry out those plans. However, possible forthcoming measures in the Tax Administration and the case law have not yet been taken into account. The Minister has agreed to update the plans if necessary. Can the Minister give the Chamber an update? He will give a new overview in the course of 2017. Suppose the plans of Defence for Limburg or other plans make a definitive effect visible in the short term. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber at an earlier stage? I assume the Minister is defending his last budget for Housing and National Service. So we can look back on the last four years. If there's any order of business, it's in this wallet. The housing market was locked. All sectors of purchase, free rent and social rental... have been addressed. We know it takes a while for everyone to notice, but all the buttons are in the right direction. We also know that it can be done even better, and I have mentioned a number of concrete measures for this. The same goes for the state service. The interventions have led to a better, more efficient government, for example in the field of ICT. This gives new assurances for people who are now going to work in the government, for people who are now looking for a suitable home. What a beautiful country, and what a rock of a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u79	Thank you, too. Mr Bashir has one more question for you. You expected that, but it's been a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u80	However, I would like to make it clear for the report that Mr Koolmees wants to applaud the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u81	Mr Van der Linde talks about social housing. It is a fact that social housing pays more taxes than the big companies in this country. Big companies pay Vpb. Housing corporations do the same, but they also pay the landlord's tax. Does the VVD think it fair that the social tenants pay more taxes than the large multinationals, who can also avoid tax through all kinds of constructions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u82	The money from corporations is still in the wrong buildings. Corporations are still dominant in the free-for-hire sector. In the words of the minister, money is still in an old sock with the corporations. If I have to choose whether I want to bet that money on corporations that do little with it or for tax cuts, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u83	The choices are clear. Maybe I don't like Shell or Philips' building either, or maybe I don't think these are good buildings, but that's no reason for me to say that specifically this sector has to pay more taxes. All companies in the Netherlands pay Vpb, corporation tax, and profit tax. Housing corporations do the same, but they have to pay an extra tax from the cabinet, namely the landlord's tax. I ask for justification. Why is it just to let the social tenants, the people with the lowest incomes, pay extra taxes and not ask the big companies and their shareholders for that extra tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u84	I'm just gonna move in with the tenant. He sees that his corporation has a beautiful and large office, where people work four days a week, while in fact not so much has happened to his home, although his corporation has plenty of money. Then we would much rather use that money for useful things that people are directly aware of, namely tax cuts. I don't think it's that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u85	I come back to a word Mr Van der Linde used in response to a comment made by Mr Madlener. He said that there is overheating at the market rather than a normal course of action. Mr Madlener added that this applies to Amsterdam, but there are more areas in this country to which this applies. I do not hear anything about that in Mr van der Linde's speech. Overheating can also mean that debt is rising rapidly again and that imbalances are re-emerging in the housing market. What is the VVD's response to the risk of overheating?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u86	In the years before 2008 was the gate of the dam. You got a huge mortgage and you got insurance products that you didn't understand; everything was thrown into a pile. After 2008, we have put our house in order in this respect. Many of the loan standards are distressing to me.I'm happy with the words of the SP about loan to value, but it makes sure that prices can't go all the way through the roof. So it helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u87	This seems to me to contradict Mr Van der Linde's statement just now in response to a comment made by Mr Madlener. Mr Van der Linde just said that there is a danger of overheating again. However, in response to a comment by Mr Bashir, he said that the loan standards could be raised a bit. That's not a reaction to a threat of overheating, is it? Or have we learned nothing from the past, put our heads back in the sand and go on like the party isn't finite?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u88	If we had not had these loan standards, what would Mr Koolmees have experienced if people wanted to buy a house in Amsterdam? People would not have paid 22% more than last year, no, they would have paid 100% more than last year. So the loan standards work on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u89	That's my point, too. That is why D66 has concluded the housing agreement with the Minister, precisely to deal with these things. Mr Van der Linde now says that there is a danger of overheating again, but then he walks around with a bow. I don't think that's very responsible for a party like the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u90	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Wij hadden daarstraks een debat over bijbouwen.]] I think I've been very clear about that. If there's one thing in Amsterdam that I'm happy about, it's that there's an incredible amount of extra building there. In my opinion, Mr Koolmees and I stood together in Amsterdam to look at that. I think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u91	Mr Van der Linde is so happy with the housing market on behalf of all Dutch people. However, I wonder who should actually be happy with the cabinet. In the social rental sector, the waiting lists have grown hugely, of course also because of the arrival of all those refugees to whom the cabinet wants to distribute free homes. The cabinet wants to give 43.000 people a free home this year. So the waiting lists are running up. Immigration from Islamic countries has broken records. The less-favoured areas of the future are now being created by the cabinet. When I look at the average rent, I see a lot ofzzp'ers who don't come to work anymore. Due to the strict loan standards, they cannot buy a house. They are forced into the middle-priced rent, against their will, because they would rather buy a house with this low interest rate. The rest of the Dutch are in a merchant house. Mr Van der Linde is somewhat saved by the low interest rate of the ECB, but imagine that the interest rate would still have been 5%. Then half the Netherlands would have been underwater. To this day, 800,000 people are under water with their mortgage. This cabinet has made the standards stricter while the market was falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u92	Are you going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u93	I wonder: who are you happy for? Have you had a raise yourself that makes you happy? I do not think the rest of the Netherlands can agree with your story that it is all so fantastic. The house prices have fallen...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u94	Mr Madlener, let me give Mr Van der Linde a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u95	I'll pick one out. Mr Madlener mentions a fear that lives with many Dutch people.. he does so in words that are not mine about the arrival of new people in the Netherlands. I think we have had a very good debate on how we want to regulate housing in the midst of deniers on the one hand and screamers on the other hand by a large majority in this Parliament. This has led to a motion by the VVD that we are now away from the priority regime for status holders. At the same time, it has led to the counterweight offered by the PvdA that there is a beautiful package that allows municipalities to work to offer people a home outside of social housing. Didn't we settle that neatly? That's exactly what Mr Madlener wanted, isn't it? Or would he have rather let all those people sleep on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u96	I wouldn't have wanted those people in the Netherlands at all, but there were the open borders policy and the sucking effect. This cabinet has made the smugglers happy. The Netherlands was very high in the lists. Come to Holland, because there you get a free house and the rest. The Dutch house seekers are the victims of this. The tenants have had a record rent increase from this cabinet and thanks to this cabinet are waiting lists. Then you've got the middle rent. There are often people who have to emigrate because they can no longer get social housing because they make too much money, but also do not get into business in the buying sector. Then we still have the properties. There are 800,000 Dutch families under water with their homes. The houses have dropped tens of thousands of euros in value. That's just people's savings. I wonder again: who should be pleased with this cabinet? I can't think of anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u97	We share the fear that there will be pressure on the housing market because there will be a lot of people. That's the problem we addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u98	When I hear Mr Van der Linde talking about housing corporations, I always startled by the image he sketches of these organizations. Those organisations are meant to house people with a smaller wallet, and those organisations also have a heart for that. Sometimes they look a bit wider, because people not only live in their homes, but also in a neighbourhood where there must be facilities. I wonder if the VVD could look a little more nuanced. I'm sure there'll be some bad apples in there, but wouldn't most of the housing corporations just stand up for people who need social housing? Could that possibly be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u99	Yeah, I think we can totally agree on that. I think the corporations should be in favour of that. I sketched the picture of the corporations that were completely off the map a few years ago. Look at the parliamentary survey. I'm not saying "houseboss, developer and sinterklaas" for nothing, because they were all three at the same time. That's not what corporations are for. A sports hall should not be funded by a housing corporation, because then tenants pay for it. A sports hall should be financed by the alderman from taxpayers' money. That's exactly what was wrong. That is exactly what we have corrected in recent years. I'm not saying the pride is back in the corporations for nothing. The people who are involved, the people who have a modest income, for whom the corporations were once established, are better off here. They are given priority again and are again in the first place among the corporations. So we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u100	Aldermen often have no money at all for sports halls thanks to the huge cuts in care and the Participation Act that have been implemented, partly thanks to the VVD; but that aside. The VVD says we can raise the landlord's tax a little bit further. If you do that, doesn't corporations have even less money left to invest in sustainability and new construction? If the VVD also considers this important, would it not make much more sense to allow corporations to invest in it, instead of increasing that landlord's tax even further and then throwing the proceeds back into the big pile? I would also like the VVD to work for more social housing and for the sustainability of the social housing sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u101	Let me say the following. Mrs Voortman has undoubtedly also read Ortec Finance's report which the Minister had produced. At present, corporations can invest 37 billion. They can build 250,000 houses. We do not have to do anything from The Hague to get this process going. It's in the municipalities, and if they need to, they'll do it. But for some reason that doesn't happen, and then I think the problem will be somewhere else. That's right, because that's in the free rental sector. We share the point of sustainability. There is a great deal to be done about this, especially in the social sector, because there is the greatest profit to be made. But this is my first point, and that is a fair story, and that fair story is that these corporations are getting stuck if we are only aiming for homes with zero on the meter. Those corporations would like to take small steps, from energy label D to energy label C and from energy label C to energy label A. That kind of small steps are profitable, they can go out. Before the holiday I heard the crazy demand that no tenant should go backwards on it if his home is being preserved. That is what I am talking about, and that is my second point, Mr President, which is simply not a fair story. People are going to use more when their homes are isolated. In practice, that is my third point, and that is also important, because 70% of tenants have to agree to it. Then let's do something about that together and reduce the approval rate for participation by tenants from 70 to 50. 'Cause then those corporations can get to work. Those are just three points in which we can make a huge contribution to sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u102	Thank you. You came to the end of your speech, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u103	I can think of something after it, but no, I thought I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u104	You had a wonderful closing sentence, I remember now. I give the floor to Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u105	Mr. Chairman. This is the last year we've discussed a budget of this cabinet. This morning, Trouw published an extensive article in which many cases were appointed under the leadership of this minister. In our view, that was not a complete piece, so I will pick out a number of other things. It is good to get the results straight and to ask whether living in the Netherlands and the organisation of the state service with this minister has really improved over the past four years. To what extent has it improved citizens? I will quote a number of points in the Bruges coalition agreement. I will start with the following quote: "The problems of residual debt are addressed in a targeted way." The CDA didn't notice much of that. The block mortgage should be the answer and we know what failure that was. Then I come to another point, namely that corporations would come under direct control of municipalities. I have never heard of that again, while this intention was literally in the coalition agreement. Then another quote. "The scale of a housing corporation must be in line with the scale of the regional housing market and the core social task." This regional classification has recently been established. We now get a regional housing market with, for example, The Hague and Rotterdam in one region. Brielle and Bodegraven are also in that region, together with Wassenaar and Krimpen aan den IJssel. The Hague and Rotterdam, two G4 municipalities, which are going to dominate as big brothers: I can only explain to people if I explain to them that the corporations wanted this. In my opinion, residents do not want this, and I think it is precisely the corporations that played a leading role there. In this example, they are given a large area of housing in which they can be active, and they hardly have to transfer rental homes to other corporations. The government agreement also stated that due to the great importance and complexity of the reforms in the Department of BZK, a new Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst had to be entrusted with the housing file. In our view, a minister was not necessary: a Secretary of State could have done just fine. It took a minister to balance the numbers of government officials in the cabinet, and nowhere else. Apart from the coalition agreement, we have also wondered whether living and the government service are now well placed. What did the citizen notice? We see the waiting lists increasing by displacement on the long list of house seekers. The active search time is also increasing. At the start of this cabinet, only 13% of tenants had a payment risk, compared to 18% in 2015. We see that the many money from pension funds is still not converted into concrete middle-priced housing in the cities. Where are these properties with a rent between €700 and €900? They're just not here. Houses are now appropriately assigned. All right, we also supported that proposal. However, it seems that the tight application is pinching here and there. I believe that this is the case in the shrinking regions and in the elderly with a care question who want a adapted home. We don't see the extra homes needed to absorb the extra influx of status holders, either. The azc's are full of license holders waiting for a place to live. It's causing displacement. We're seeing a much too big drop in corporate investment. The landlord's tax has undoubtedly contributed to this, not only when it comes to the new construction of rental houses but also when it comes to renovation and sustainability. Hopefully a next cabinet will make other choices. The sustainability in the built environment is too slow. There too, acceleration is needed. We see that start-ups are becoming increasingly difficult in large parts of the country on the market. This brings me to a point that has already been raised: mortgage lending. It's become very rigid. Custom is almost gone. For people who do not fit in a standard profile, there are often no other options. Where housing costs remain the same or even improve and where debt is improved, tailor-made work should and could be done. The CDA likes to see change in this. This morning I was surprised by a report in my mailbox entitled Towards better functioning loan standards. That piece really appealed to me. Perhaps the Minister should also respond to it, so that we could do something with it in the second term in the form of a motion. We need to get the "comply or explain" in front of the mortgage providers. There is simply room for an assessment of individual dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u106	I'm just gonna put myself in the random voter who's thinking about voting for the CDA. He has seen three or four spokesperson Wonen on behalf of the CDA for the past four years. One of those spokesmen came up with a serious plan for building savings. A crucial part of that was that you had to save up before you went to buy a house. Also, the loan to value had to return to 80%. What's the status of that plan? Are we gonna see that again at the CDA or are we just gonna go another way happy again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u107	In the future, saving will have to be a clear element that starts young, with young people. This also applies to savings for living. As far as we are concerned, this is not directly related to the LTV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u108	That is, of course, connected with that. If you have to bring your own money, you have a lower LTV. What is it? An LTV of 102% or are we going to build spares with mandatory savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u109	At the moment, an LTV that is lower than where it is going, namely the 100%, is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u110	"As we speak"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u111	You want to ask what's in the election program with us? Then you will have to wait another day, because it will be announced tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u112	My problem is that I'm seeing it mopping all over the place right now. As a voter, I would like to know why you say one year 'bring your own money because we are going to save construction' and the other year says that the LTV is oppressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u113	I don't understand why you say people should bring their own money. I didn't say anything about that in my speech. As far as I am concerned, building savings are still a good option, but they are not part of the LTV discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u114	Indeed, building savings are a good option for young people. If you want a low LTV, people should at least be able to buy a house to have a low LTV at all. They get them automatically, because after 30 years, they're all off their mortgage. I made a proposal not to lower the LTV further to keep the flow going. Can the CDA agree to that? So I'm talking about not lowering the LTV every year, but keeping it at 100% so that people don't have to save forever and keep a house occupied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u115	I think we should just hold on to the line that has now been chosen to descend towards 100%. I agree with Mr Van der Linde that we should look to the future, that we should look at how we are going to take it further and that we should ensure that the LTV does not continue to move to a lower level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u116	Then I understand Ronnes accepts that people who can actually buy a house and pay off that house within 30 years will have to live in a rental house for months, hold that rental house, before they can finally take that step to buy, while it can be financially and also get rid of their mortgage within 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u117	I don't think buying the property for people is stuck at €2,000, where the purchase price is concerned. If people are saving well, I think they should be able to find a solution. I think we need to look more at the long term and see if we can ultimately use a general movement that allows as many people as possible to buy a good home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u118	I'm chewing on Mr. Ronnes' story a little bit. To be honest, I think it's a bit of a bad story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u119	Yeah, it is. The situation on the housing market in the Netherlands is, of course, acidic at the moment. I'm just someone who's waiting for a rental. I'm just a guy who wants to move to a house that's smaller and can't get a mortgage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u120	I hadn't gotten to my question yet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u121	I would just say to Mr Ronnes that you wanted to ask another question. Go ahead, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u122	I am surprised because I myself sat at the table with CDA Minister Jan Kees de Jager and also with Mr Buma. That is where the tightening of the loan standard has been agreed and the adjustment of the mortgage interest rebate, which this cabinet has actually taken over, has been agreed. The CDA election programme also included a 1.6 billion cut in housing corporations. In fact, the cabinet has implemented the CDA programme and has gone further on the loan standards of Minister De Jager of the CDA. And then there's gonna be such a nasty story. I don't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u123	You are now lifting out a number of elements, Mr Koolmees. However, it is simply wider. If you look at the current market, you can see that too little has been built. In the mortgage sector, you can see that the regulation works in a compelling way. The innovations that the banking world and the mortgage lending world are going through also play a role. Everything comes in automated systems, so you can only claim that kind of products if you fit in a standard profile. I believe that you should not confine yourself to that part of the discussion and that you should also look at all the other elements that play a role in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u124	I agree with that in itself. We have built Chamberwide here, where seniors, for example, are not getting a mortgage. As far as college debts were concerned, I did so to Mrs Schouten. So I agree. However, you cannot deny that there are two very large files in the housing market that are dominant. On the purchase market these are the mortgage interest deduction and the loan standards. On the corporate side, that's the savings on corporations, whether that's the landlord's tax or the variant of the CDA. In these two cases, the CDA has actually made exactly the same choices as the cabinet. Then I don't understand this sour tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u125	Finally, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u126	I simply disagree with you, Mr Koolmees. You know that the CDA ran away from the table when it came to the settlement agreement. Before that, there was the discussion about the landlord tax. The CDA has already argued that the landlord levy should not be as high as it is now. In addition, there have been two counter-budgets in which the CDA has proposed to apply a lower landlord's tax. You can like that or not, but those are the facts. That you take back to the time before is all fine, but I have to do it with the facts that lie in the trajectory up to this moment and where we have come so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u127	Finally, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u128	The fact that I come up with is that the CDA's electoral programme actually contained a cut of 1.6 billion on corporations and the adjustment of the mortgage interest rate deduction. Let me also not forget the adjustment of loan standards by Jan Kees de Jager. These are all matters which the CDA now blames this minister, but which it itself is in favour of. Then a bit of the feeling remains that the CDA, because it is in the opposition, suddenly runs away from its own plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u129	I would like to respond once again to what Mr Koolmees is saying now, Mr President. I don't think it's right for him to say this this way. The CDA has put forward an alternative on several occasions. This was done in two financial years, among other things. That is why I do not think it is chic of him that he puts all these figures on the table in this way, which are no longer topical in the discussion that is currently taking place. Tomorrow, moreover, the new CDA election programme will be announced. All in all, the Liberal Minister for Housing will go down in history as a minister who, with the support of the Labour Party, has pushed through the necessary VVD laws. It has been made clear that the concerns of vulnerable groups, such as those with a small income, older people, start-ups and status holders, were nevertheless subordinate to the VVD's great efforts to reduce the rent market and corporations. The motivation was: the market will take care of it. The Labour Party stood by and looked at it. I'll get to the middle rent. In recent times, we have often heard from the Minister that every investor, and certainly the foreign investor, is eager to invest in the Netherlands in rental houses in the free sector. It is clear that there is a serious shortage of medium-cost housing, but the market is not meeting this deficit enough. Corporations must not take this up, while the Minister has so far been unable to pull this middle segment apart. However, this was a spearhead of policy. What plans does the Minister have for this to be achieved in the short term? The CDA simply wants to see more action in this area. We need to realize this. I have arrived at the state services and employment in the region. The CDA would like us to deal differently with parts of state services that are housed in the country. According to the CDA, if there are reorganisations or cuts, the importance of employment in the region does not always weigh heavily enough. For example, we do not think it should be digested that in shrinking regions where employment is already under severe pressure, the government is making the situation worse by cutting public services. When considering the abolition of a state service, that aspect should be even more important. Is the Minister prepared to take care of that? As an example, I mention the Financial Service Centre, which moved from Limburg to Utrecht. Finally. This is the last time the CDA will be able to discuss the housing and government budget with this cabinet. That is why we have taken stock of the situation. Our conclusion is that it should have been better. There has been a one-sided VVD policy in recent years with little regard for vulnerable people in society. There should have been more construction. Build, build and build again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u130	I listened to Mr Ronnes' story. I'm trying to make a summary for myself, but I can't really do that. I hear Mr Ronnes saying that things should have been different, that it was all wrong and so on. But at the same time he says that he himself ran away from the negotiating table when it came to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u131	Because we didn't agree with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u132	No, Mr Ronnes, I did not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u133	I have not actually heard one new idea in Mr Ronnes' speech. Of course, we all think more needs to be built. But what new ideas does the CDA come up with now? Or should I read that in the press tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u134	I call Mr Van der Linde the idea that we have already suggested that we should do something about the rigidity of the mortgage market. More pressure must be put on this in order to promote flexibility in that market. We have been talking about the middle segment for a long time now. When we discussed this report before the recess, I have just lost the name of its author. The Minister is now proposing, among other things, that the zoning procedures be adapted so that the middle segment can be hardened in such a zoning plan. But we're running behind the facts. That applies to a lot of things, Mr Van der Linde. The consequences are long waiting lists. People who want a place to rent don't need it. People who want to move from a rental house to a property, they don't get a mortgage either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u135	This is exactly what I'm talking about. Mr Ronnes is now telling us what the Minister is going to do. My question, however, is what the CDA wants to do. What's the gentleman or the lady who wants to buy a house gonna notice from the CDA? I don't hear anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u136	Mr Van der Linde will agree with me that the middle segment is a very important issue in this respect. In my opinion, the Empire, together with provinces, municipalities and stakeholders, should put in place a more valid action plan, which states how we should proceed to the real realisation of this construction. It's just stuck in some places. We don't see enough movement there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u137	But that's government policy, again. I'm trying to make a difference with government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u138	Mr. Ronnes, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u139	The results just aren't there. So we will have to tap from a different angle there and perhaps also think of binding agreements from the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u140	I note that you are at the end of your speech and have answered the questions. Thank you for your input. I give the floor to Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u141	Mr. Chairman. The shrinking regions, with their note Netherlands in balance, call for a shift from symptom control to structural strengthening. They write: "At local and regional level, innovative solutions can be found in healthcare, education and economic innovation. This shows the resilience of the regional population. But it's enough. Despite this commitment, there is still further erosion in viability and economic vitality. Continuing on the same path, or even a step back, as in the Action Plan on population decline, will ultimately lead to greater delays. This is not economically, socially and politically desirable. Therefore, it is time for a change of course." Last week, Mrs Bettina Bock, sociologist and professor of population decline at the University of Groningen, said in her address: "What is wrong with the current policy is that everyone is looking at the overheated areas. There is money to be made and there are problems to be solved. By focusing on these areas, the shrinking areas are forgotten. The policy places great emphasis on the own responsibility of shrinking regions and provinces. There is too little awareness of shared responsibility, commitment and solidarity." The PvdA shares this view. We must ensure sufficient opportunities throughout the country, in the cities and in the countryside, in the Randstad and in the outskirts. We do not agree with the announcement in the budget documents that after the completion of the cooperation agendas, the shrinking regions after 2019 can be expected to address the shrinking issues independently. The PvdA calls for a more integrated approach to growth and shrinkage, with financial links and shared responsibility and solidarity with, as proposed by the Temporary Committee on House Prices at the time, a settlement system between high pressure, stagnation and shrinking areas. We're looking forward to the Minister's response. We also do not agree with the end of the grant to the National Partnership Active residents. Shared responsibility also includes residents. They are asking for €385,000 for the coming years. That is considerably less than it has been so far. The LSA has worked on neighbourhood rights and entrepreneurial initiatives. It is precisely in the shrinking regions that it is important to take responsibility for the provision of services by residents in their own hands. We ask the Minister to reconsider this austerity. The own strength of regions can be further supported by creating more room for regulation in the conditions of the regions. In the meantime, my initiative law to make that possible has been with the Council of State for quite some time now. I hope that the opinion will come soon so that we can take further steps. With a motion, the Chamber asked for no more than proportional jobs to be removed when the state service is slimming down in the shrinkage regions and thus now in the Achterhoek (Achterhoek). The PvdA is curious whether this starting point is respected in the turbulent slimming of the Tax Administration. Also in the housing market we see increasing regional differences. Mr Ronnes asked to examine in a motion whether and, if so, how this could be taken into account in policy. The income limit for the policy target group could be set at a significantly higher level in the scarcity areas. Access to the sales market could be regulated differently at regional level due to completely different risk profiles. For example, there must be much more tailor-made work to improve the functioning of the regional housing market. How far is the Minister in implementing this motion? This cabinet, together with the settlement parties, has made necessary changes to the housing file. In the purchasing sector, the deduction of mortgage interest has finally been addressed. For higher incomes, deduction is reduced in steps to a level equal to 38% for all households. The risks in the mortgage field have been addressed. In the rental sector, housing corporations have been put back into their core business and serious efforts have been made to reduce the payment risks of households. A start has been made on making the built environment more energy efficient. All the necessary steps that previous Cabinets have not dared to take. But steps that require follow-up steps and here and there also require repair of unwanted effects. Some repairs have already been successfully performed. For example, by deploying the PvdA, the annual increase in the rent allowance, which allows low-income households to be spared. The PvdA is pleased that this is now more structural in the budget and that there is also room for approximately €10.50 additional rent allowance for almost all tenants who are entitled to it. As a result, more and more money is being pumped around. The PvdA wonders if that's the way it's supposed to be. We are in favour of a greater link between social-sector rents and carrying capacity, in such a way that after rent increases as a result of the increase in household income, there is also room for a reduction in rents in the event of a decrease in income. I filed a motion for that earlier. But the minister doesn't make much effort to carry it out. I'm wondering how that's gonna be prosecuted. In the current system, it may happen that your neighbor, who retired five years earlier, pays a much lower rent for life for exactly the same house you have, because for years, with your income even higher then, you got an income-dependent increase on your pants. Due to our commitment, the Social Rental Agreement concluded by the Housing Union with Aedes has been incorporated into the rental policy. With the rent sum approach we go for most tenants of a corporation house again towards inflation following rent policy. I wonder whether the Minister has already kept his commitment to talk to private landlords' turrets in order to encourage them to limit rent increases if the rent is already above 80% reasonable. Judgments of the Rent Committee show that many landlords charge far too much rent for homes that fall in terms of points within the social sector. Not only do they milk out the tenant, but they also commit fraud by avoiding the landlord's tax. And fraud must be dealt with. I wouldn't have to explain that to a VVD minister, would I? The PvdA considers that landlords should be obliged to indicate, with each new lease, the number of points the property in question has under the property valuation system and should be obliged to inform the tenant of how that number of points can be contested by the Rent Committee. In order to keep rents in the free sector at an acceptable level and to avoid wild west scenes, the PvdA is in favour of making the application of the housing valuation system mandatory up to 200 points. Why don't the VVD and the minister think that's a good idea? In the free sector, too, we must protect people from a rent that takes up too much of their income. In the corporate sector, the so-called appropriate allocation applies. This would work even better if account were taken of the energy bill of the home, the demand for support from the elderly and people of a disability, the household composition and whether or not the household has capacity. All these things aren't taken into account right now. We ask the Minister to look at this again. Appropriate allocation can only work if the stock of homes with a rent up to the first capping limit, which is now at €586 per month, is significantly increased. This can be done by reducing the rent of more expensive houses by applying customised rents, taking into account the capacity of the household, but above all by building new cheap rentals. This brings us to the biggest problem in the housing market: the growing shortage of homes. There is another threat of housing shortage in some parts of the Netherlands. New construction virtually stopped during the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u142	I am surprised to hear what Mr De Vries has said. He's talking about a shortage of social housing. Then I'll just take the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that the social stock would be maintained. That means the number of social housing units wouldn't decrease. Over the past six years, the number of social housing units has fallen dramatically with 262,000 homes. Now Mr De Vries says that social housing should be added. What did he do wrong? He had a contract with this minister and with his coalition partner. He didn't hold them to that. What went wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u143	There are far too few houses built. That was mainly due to the crisis at the beginning of the reigning period, because then there was no construction throughout the Netherlands, not by one party, not by the other party, nor by corporations. When we came out of the crisis, the PvdA once again advocated that it should be rebuilt. Just in the corporate sector, the cheaper, affordable rental homes that people are waiting for so long. I will go into the rest of my speech. That's where our focus is. We have seen in the crisis that the number of social housing units could not be increased, but now that there is a chance, it has to be done as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u144	The government agreement stated that the number of social housing units would remain the same. It didn't say it would rise, it said it would stay even. And what's the result? It's dropped 262,000 in the last six years. This government has been around for four years, so I understand that the full number of 262,000 isn't to be linked to this government, but you had a contract with the VVD stating that the number would remain the same. Why didn't you keep your partner to that? Have you not done your job properly or have the other spokesmen of the PvdA not done their job properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u145	Mr Bashir, I think you are asking the same question again. I think the question was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u146	I've got it in my sights, too. Mr Bashir has quite a point. We would also have liked the corporations to build them immediately in 2012, but building new homes requires preparation time. In the crisis they waited in 2012 and in 2013 and in 2014 it started a little bit. Now there really needs to be a boost. The circumstances meant that the promise made in the coalition agreement could not be fulfilled. Mr Bashir has a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u147	I'd say, who still believes the PvdA? Just a year ago, we were also debating here. It was then about the arrival of all those asylum seekers. Mr De Vries said at the time: no, that is not at the expense of Dutch house-seekers, because I have a plan. A total of 100,000 houses are built up at €25,000 each. We have had a whole debate on this and I predicted that this would not work. According to next year's forecast, 8,000 social housing units will be added, while 43,000 asylum seekers should be given priority housing. You won't keep your promises. You're standing here talking to the many. It doesn't make any sense. You're just kidding people. Could you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u148	In the rest of my speech, I come back to what Mr Madlener is saying. I suggest I move on. He'll hear my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u149	I see Mr Madlener sitting down. You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u150	Now that we are coming out of the crisis and demand is increasing rapidly, new construction is hardly starting. In many parts of the country, prices are already rising again on the sales market. It is quite normal to offer above the asking price. In addition, sellers, brokers, valuers and buyers run into each other. Not every buyer can oversee the risks. Instead of the new building rising with such an increasing demand, it is falling. It seems as if we have learned nothing from the advice of the Temporary Committee on House Prices. The corporations think they can build up to 20,000 social housing units a year, while at least as much is liberalised, sold or demolished annually. So that's far too little. Institutional investors say to deliver a top performance if they manage to build 6,000 rentals per year. The minister strongly believes in the private sector and market forces, but the market has an interest in scarcity and investors are mainly interested in acquiring corporate property. But with takeover, there's no house added. We do not think that sales on a large scale are desirable at all. The corporation sector, with its long tradition, is not the social service of living as opposed to what the VVD says. As far as we are concerned, corporations keep their jobs above the capping limits and, where necessary, above them. Corporations remain in the vision of the Labour Party organizations that elevate and connect. They provide a wide group of people for a good home in a nice street and in a pleasant and mixed neighborhood. Investors should not take over houses but build new houses, especially houses with rents that are affordable for households with incomes just above those of the target group of the social sector: rent of €750, €800 or up to €850 per month. Almost all scholars agree that in the next ten years at least 70,000 new homes will have to be built per year, that the composition of the current housing stock is not really in line with future demand and that the number of building permits for new homes will fall rather than increase. They also say that parties have no interest in new construction because scarcity drives up the price of land and housing, making waiting more lucrative than building. Furthermore, we are increasingly hearing that the problem is not the money to invest but the lack of good and affordable construction sites. The municipalities therefore also appear to be insufficiently able to assume their responsibilities. That calls for action. According to the Housing Act, the Minister is responsible for sufficient size, quality and differentiation of the housing stock. How long will it take the Minister to take action? As soon as we came out of the crisis, the Labour Party went into trouble. Last year, we made the proposal, which Mr Madelener mentioned, to speed up the construction of 100,000 affordable rentals. We suggested that we also opt for prefab concepts. The urgency of our message only reached a limited number of parties. A number of municipalities have taken this path, but there are still far too few to solve the problems. We assume that the minister will really be behind the corporations to build cheap houses now that new instruments are in place: the landlord tax will be reduced to €10,000 per new rental house with a rent of up to €586 per month and €20,000 in the so-called scarcity areas, as well as additional regulations for Rotterdam-South and the shrinking areas. That would be a first step, but we expect more from the Minister to pursue the new construction. We have argued earlier that the existing estimates of housing needs should be translated regionally over the coming years and converted into indicative targets for each housing market area. The task could therefore involve the need for people who flow from the GGZ sector, the need for small-scale clusters of adapted housing in villages and neighbourhoods for people in need of care or support, the need to make housing more flexible with the sustainable urbanisation ladder, the possibility for the minister to give an indication if a housing market area does not meet the targets, the possibility of providing more space for residents' own initiative, for private clientship and for cooperatives, and the possibility of making agreements with our pension funds so that they can invest in middle-cost housing throughout the country, if necessary with a guarantee of modest but reasonable return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u151	Mr De Vries lists what needs to be done. But since it is the last budget of this minister, I think that the Labour Party should not have come up with these proposals much earlier? Or if these proposals were made, should the Labour Party not have said: Minister Blok, you must implement our proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u152	It was only when we were a little out of the crisis that it really made sense to make a big call. That's why we came up with that plan last year for 100,000 homes. At that time we had the idea that not only the minister but more parties, including municipalities, would be in the classroom and would get started. A number of municipalities have done the same. A large number of municipalities have started to invest in prefab houses and have been able to market a number very quickly. But that has not been done in sufficient numbers. We have taken advantage of every AO to ask the Minister to boost the construction. We are also the architect of the idea to arrange in the landlord's tax to deduct €10,000 and €20,000 in order to create a new incentive for new construction. We do all kinds of things, but the market has to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u153	What Mr De Vries has not been told is that this deduction is then achieved by an increase in the landlord's tax. So it's a little pocket pocket. But what is the Labour Party actually doing? She says: but it was a crisis, so we couldn't do that much. I thought it would have been a good idea to come up with plans in a time of crisis. That would have been good for employment. Now the PvdA has waited and she says in the last budget: 'Hey, Minister, get to work!'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u154	I repeat that last year, after we had already pointed out in a large number of AO's last year the great shortage of new buildings, that story of those 100,000 homes, just to show that simple concepts and other land exploitation models can be produced quickly. I have been on excursion myself at a large number of municipalities. I've visited some of those projects. So it worked, but the scale on which it works is too small. A simple MP cannot do that; we have the minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u155	I waited for the PvdA spokesperson to turn off his story. I don't know what I'm hearing. It's like there's some kind of opposition party here that still calls everything else and better. We've been debating here year after year. You have opened those borders to all those asylum seekers! You said, "Don't worry, we'll take care of the houses." They weren't there and they're not there yet. You are not just fooling me here; you are fooling the whole of the Netherlands and especially your own electorate. I hope that there are not many people listening to this debate. To be honest, I would find a very, very deep apology of you in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u156	I give the floor to Mr De Vries, but I would ask you to speak through the President, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u157	I actually hope that there are quite a lot of people watching tonight, because then they hear that the PVV doesn't fail to sow divisions, to turn people against each other and to make people suspicious. The Labour Party means here for years, year out of pleas to find solutions for the people who have a permit. Mr Madlener is always talking about asylum seekers, but we are talking about 'holder of authorisation'. Those people have the right to find housing in the Netherlands. If we have not achieved enough, then we have still achieved much more than the PVV with all its fearmongering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u158	This is really sad. We are talking about asylum seekers who have travelled through six safe countries to come here. That is almost at the invitation of the PvdA, because you stand here with open arms and say: come in. It is the PvdA that sows division and causes problems in our society. You're inviting tens of thousands of asylum seekers to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u159	Mr Madlener, would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u160	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA spokesperson is almost standing here with open arms saying: come to the Netherlands. Tens of thousands of asylum seekers come here and the PvdA promises that this will not cause tensions on the labour market and will cause waiting lists. She says, "Don't worry, we'll take care of the houses, so we'll buy them." That's what the PvdA is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u161	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u162	He's kidding everyone! Turns out nothing happened at all. All these words and all those debates that we have had now turn out to be total bullshit. I told you last year, you can't live in bullshit. We've got that bullshit now, and that's the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u163	Mr De Vries, I have not heard a question. I don't know if you want to respond anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u164	You may be curious, but we have this debate about every week. The PVV keeps shouting about asylum seekers, while they are people who are licensed and entitled to housing. We just have to take that seriously. We need to find solutions to this. The Labour Party may not be doing well, but at least we are doing our best to ensure that new homes are added. The PVV can really suck on that. I have one more point that I think should also be taken seriously, namely the opinion of the Committee on House Prices to limit the right of self-realisation in areas with a great need for new construction, in order to avoid delays and speculation. Can the Minister respond again to our proposals? Can he indicate what his alternatives are to hunt the construction if or insofar as he does not think he can take over them? I would also like to draw attention to the initiative paper of my colleagues Leenders and Jacobi on the greening of roofs and facades in the city. Is the Minister prepared to explore the possibilities for the Empire to lead the way with its many buildings in that greening? Many new agreements have been made with regard to energy savings in the built environment. Nevertheless, we continue to fear that we will not achieve the targets set out in the energy agreement. Strengthening the enforcement of the building owners' obligation under the Building Owners' Activity Decision to take all the measures that are recouped within five years can achieve enormous savings. However, enforcement is still lagging behind. Is the Minister now going to do something about this with the Secretary of State of I and M? In order to achieve this goal, I have sometimes advocated the introduction of a building apk. That idea turned out to be too early. Perhaps the idea of Building the Netherlands, FME and UNITO-VNI is a good idea. That idea is to streamline all mandatory inspections, security checks and maintenance obligations in and of buildings through a database. This idea costs relatively little money, but in the long term it saves and boosts safety, health and energy saving. We would like to know what the Minister thinks of that initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u165	Mr. Chairman. As you hear, I have a cold, too. I hope I'm not getting a coughing fit, although the story of the PvdA is almost giving me a coughing fit. If people lose faith in politics, it is because of politicians like Mr De Vries: promise everything and then do nothing, while this is their own cabinet. Thanks to the open border policy of this cabinet, 43 000 asylum seekers are entitled to a free rental house this year alone. You can never build on that. That costs billions. The VVD and the PvdA have left a mess that we will have for years to come. It is estimated that some 8,000 social housing will be built next year; that is construction minus demolition. 43 000 immigrants must be provided with a free home. That's not possible. The Dutch house seekers are the victims of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u166	The words of the PVV are not mine. I understand the problem and I also understand that people in the Netherlands are worried about this. But what if the PVV gets its way and gets 76 seats after 15 March; can Mr Madlener indicate what he will do with those 43.000 people? What are we going to see concretely from the PVV during the first 100 days?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u167	Not only can you see that; everyone can read that in our election programme. We are, of course, going to ensure that we send back those people who have been wrongly identified as asylum seekers and who have travelled through six safe countries to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u168	How am I supposed to see that in concrete terms? Did any police vans drive into town? Are these people being picked up? Can you make it concrete? What am I gonna see with my immigrant neighbors? Are they being picked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u169	The expulsion policy of this cabinet is a joke. That is a big problem, because you are inviting tens of thousands of people to come to the Netherlands. They get asylum here and a free home at the expense of Dutch house seekers or they become illegal and still stay. That's impossible, isn't it? Everyone can see that this policy is completely bankrupt and that the Netherlands is completely screwed up by this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u170	Mr Van der Linde, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u171	That was not an answer to my question. I asked what we would see after 15 March in the first 100 days of the PVV. What's going on in the street? How will the PVV handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u172	Everyone knows that: the borders are closing. We will stop this immigration policy of yours, because we want to keep the Netherlands as it is. Then we can no longer use immigration from Islamic countries. You know what all that has led to, don't you? Until all these problems in the neighborhoods. We have to stop doing that. That's what we stand for, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u173	We are trying to have a debate here with each other and by asking what someone wants and what that looks like. Mr Van der Linde simply asked a fair question. How are we gonna see that later? How are the 43 000 people who Mr Madlener is talking about, but also all the others who have been granted a residence permit to be deported? Can Mr Madlener explain that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u174	Of course, I am not the spokesman on immigration, but the expulsion policy already exists. There's an eviction policy. It's just not going well. So we need to be stricter. We must start by closing the borders and expelling all the people who have wrongly received asylum here. They all came through Germany. Angela Merkel says, "Come to us." Well, then you either go to Germany, or you go back to your own country or your own region. That is where the shelter must take place, not in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u175	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u176	Then let's make it concrete. Mr Madlener is in box K and has this proposal. How's he gonna do that? Can he say in concrete terms what measures he will take to prevent these people from entering the country and being deported? What do these measures look like in concrete terms? You can yell that you're going to close the borders, but if you don't tell us exactly how you're going to do it, it's just gonna be vague and clear. That is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u177	It won't be easy to turn off. That's what we see everywhere. Australia also has difficulty with that, but it has to be done. It cannot be the case that there are all kinds of people coming into the Netherlands who do not belong here and that you say: do not do anything. That's not possible. That's the end of our country. So we want a strict policy. We want border controls. We want to make it clear: do not come to the Netherlands. Once people realize and the smugglers see that the Netherlands has become a strict country, the flow of immigration to the Netherlands will dry up well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u178	Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u179	Mr President, I did not receive an answer to my question. I'll point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u180	That is an observation that has now been made twice. I should now like to give the floor to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u181	What clear actions goes "Minister Madlener"... imagine that this would happen! How about couples? What concrete measures is he going to take? I believe that voters are entitled to a clear answer. Mr Van der Linde has asked. Mr Bashir has asked for it. Just tell me how you're gonna get these people out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u182	First of all, by being very strict and ensuring that not everyone can enter and apply for asylum, and then stick to illegality or obtain a residence permit and stay after five years. So we're not gonna do that. So we're gonna be tough. Then you'll see that the Netherlands gets lower on the lists of smugglers. We're just too popular a country now by parties like yours. You almost invite to come to the Netherlands. We have to stop doing that, because we don't have the homes, we don't have the jobs, and we don't want the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u183	The vast majority of people who are currently applying for asylum are rightly granted asylum. Why do they get asylum? Because they're running from war. We are obliged under the Refugee Convention whether you like it or not; GroenLinks fully supports it, the PVV does not want to include these people here. What are the concrete measures? Be honest about that for once! This kind of talk, this kind of screaming, the voters of Mr Madlener and other people have nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u184	All these asylum seekers traveled through safe countries before they came here. Those are not asylum seekers at all. They're lucky seekers. If you were to acknowledge that, we would not be stacking the problems as high as we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u185	Let me try, too. You can just say honestly: I don't know? Then you're being honest, aren't you? Oh, come on! Tell me, I'll call you, but I don't know, I'm looking for a solution. Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u186	I mention precisely what I do know: you must be strict, you must close your borders for asylum seekers and you must not give asylum status to people travelling through six safe countries. So you shouldn't do that, especially if you don't have the jobs, if you don't have the homes and if you don't want the problems. You too know the consequences of this: once again lagging neighbourhoods and again problems of integration. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u187	Mr Madlener, you know these 43,000 people are here. You know that. As a parrot, you can repeat a hundred times what Geert Wilders has taught you, but honestly, everyone is waiting for it how you want it. If you don't know that, tell me honestly: I don't know, I'm looking too. Then maybe we can help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u188	I have lived in Rotterdam for years, in such a disadvantaged area. I've seen in person what happens if you let too many newcomers who don't want to integrate live here. You know what happens. We've got the birder neighborhoods. We have all the problems with terror, with integration, with the role of men and you name it. These are all problems that were caused in the 1990s. And what do I see now? We'll make the mistakes again. The borders are wide open again. Immigration records are broken. That's no good to anyone. It does not make the Netherlands a better country. So it's time we got tough. Then you will see that the Netherlands, like Japan or Australia, falls on the lists of countries to go to. That's exactly what we want. Denmark is also doing better. Countless countries are doing better. But the Netherlands wants to be a kind of Germany: "wir purchase tie," come to us. And the PvdA pretends there's no problem. We don't have the apartments. Dutch people who have been on the waiting list for years will be the victims. We don't want that. That's how we want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u189	Mr Öztürk, I feel that we are repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u190	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u191	If you want to ask another question or choose another angle, please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u192	I grew up in a disadvantaged neighborhood, too. I'm a folk boy. I'm from the Roermondse Veld. I'm also talking to PVV guys. They ask me: how are we going to solve this? After ten, twelve years, your own supporters are looking forward to seeing how you're gonna solve it. Don't say it for us, but for your own supporters. They're tired of you telling them this kind of talk. Tell me the truth now. You've been a realtor, you've been walking around that world, you've been walking around in that society. Tell me honestly how you're gonna "shuffle" it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u193	Finally, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u194	I've just had it several times...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u195	You've told me a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u196	... told us to read our election program. It's very clear. Stop immigration, that's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u197	I suggest we...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u198	That's what we stand for. If Mr Öztürk does not yet understand what is happening, he apparently prefers to live in Turkey rather than in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u199	I suggest we don't repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u200	Suppose what Mr Madlener is calling for is also happening: we are closing the borders and there are no new people coming here. However, we do not have a debate on this issue here. We are having a debate here on the housing of people living in the Netherlands who are entitled to a home. How does Mr Madlener deal with the people who are already here and who have a permit? He doesn't think that Germany, Austria and all those countries are going to take all these people back without a hitch? He's gonna have to make sure there's housing for those people, right? Mr Madlener attacks me that I do not have good solutions for this, but I have not heard of him yet, not yet one, not yet a beginning of a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u201	Now do not come to me with the question of what the solution is; what is that now? Mr De Vries has these people coming here and the Dutch people on the waiting lists in the cold. I'm not. And then he comes to me for a solution! I have just provided solutions: close the borders and send back those who have wrongly applied for asylum and received it. Those people are coming through six safe countries. They're not asylum seekers, they're lucky seekers. If Mr De Vries recognizes that, we will have the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u202	Finally, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u203	I raised the issue of Mr Madlener becoming Minister next year after the elections. He's gonna be in "K" and he's gonna want to do what he's calling out right now. He's gonna close the borders; I got that. But what's he gonna do with all those people who are here who deserve a place to live? What's he gonna do to them? What solution does he have? Do these people have to sleep under a bridge? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u204	Finally, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u205	I'm repeating myself now. I have just said that these record numbers of asylum seekers, who have travelled through six safe countries, are not justified here. They didn't come here. They traveled through six safe countries before they applied for asylum here! They come here because Mr De Vries wants them here because he says: come to the Netherlands, because we give you a free home, a free school, a free doctor and free medical help. They get everything for free from Mr De Vries. That's why so many people come. That is why the Netherlands is high on the list of smugglers. We don't want that. Once we have closed that border, we can work on a solution to the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u206	One conclusion: we are not getting any reply from Mr Madlener. I don't think he has any answers either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u207	I just wanted to give Mr Madlener the opportunity to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u208	If you don't understand it now, you just don't want to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u209	Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u210	Those 43 000 immigrants who are still entitled to a free home this year, that is not possible. Dutch house-seekers are the victims of this. We also have no jobs and you name it; I have just mentioned it. Those 43.000 asylum seekers not only get a home this year, but they also get the right to have their whole family transferred to the Netherlands. That's part of it. This cabinet will allow you to do that. Islamic families are often quite large. They're all allowed to come to the Netherlands. They all get free school, free doctor, free legal counsel. That's all for free. For example, the Rutte II cabinet, with the help of almost all the parties in this Chamber, has brought about the emergence of new disadvantaged areas, with all the consequences: unemployment, crime, terror, Islamisation. We have made all the mistakes of the 1990s again. The ruins of Purple have been rewritten by this cabinet. I come to a slightly easier subject: the rents. This cabinet has increased the rent of social housing by 13.2%. These rent increases have been removed by the landlord's tax and put in their pockets. That was the deal: the landlord tax was introduced and in return, the corporations were allowed to increase the rents significantly, by more than 4% a year. That has greatly affected the purchasing power of tenants. We all know by now that the tax increases of this cabinet have caused the Netherlands to experience a much deeper crisis than the other countries, even than our neighbouring countries. This cabinet has only and exclusively taken into account its own public finances. It has increased taxes and made the citizens and businesses bleed. The treasury was filled again, but the citizens are poor: the Netherlands as the dumbest boy in the European class. In Belgium it is exactly the other way around. There they say: the state is poor and the people are rich. I say yes, in the Netherlands we do the opposite. This cabinet has put public finances at the heart of the public at the expense of the citizens, because they have all been able to cough up through increases in charges. As a result, the Netherlands has experienced such a deep crisis. Read the ING report that appeared a week or two ago; that is very interesting. The PVV wants to reverse this. We want to lower the rents again. I've also reached out to the SP: let's look at how we're gonna cover that together. But we should not cover it by announcing tax increases again for our companies or citizens. We need to reduce rents through foreign expenditure, because it does not affect us economically. So I ask the SP again: go in consultation with us and let's reduce the rents together. This is very important for people's purchasing power. We would like to release 1 billion for this. In our view, this would mean a rent reduction of around €500 per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u211	Mr Bashir, you were challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u212	I also proposed reducing the rents before the summer, with the same proposal as I have just made. Then Mr Madlener came forward and asked: you only want to lower the rents by one billion; why not abolish the entire landlord's tax? In the summer came the election program of the PVV. It was one A4's; they worked hard on it all summer. There's a wrong amount in that. It says that the landlord's tax is worth 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u213	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u214	You wanted to use the whole amount for the rent reduction. What are you doing with the other billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u215	We have presented a plan to enable a lot of reductions in charges. It is true that at the moment we do not give back the entire 1.7 billion to the tenant. We have chosen 1 billion, just like the SP, by the way. That's right. We have even more reductions in charges in store. We'll have to pay for it from somewhere, too. For example, we also want to halve the tax on motor vehicles, because we are more than tired of driving as a milk cow. People just need to be able to drive a car and pay. A car that stands still does not have to cost hundreds of euros a year. So we want more relief and not just for the tenants. But in the area of rents, we agree. We both offer our voters €500 rent reduction, 1 billion in total. Let us work out this plan together, but not by increasing the burden on companies or on Dutch citizens, because of course that does not help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u216	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u217	So I understand that the PVV wants the tenants to pay for other tax cuts. Because the landlord's tax is $1.7 billion. Of these, the PVV uses 1 billion to reduce rents, but the other 0.7 billion it uses to reduce other charges. The tenants at the PVV are therefore going to pay for tax reductions and for hobbies of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u218	The PVV lowers the rents by 1 billion, just like the SP! Apparently, the SP doesn't think that's a good idea. You come up with that plan yourself! You want to lower the rents by 1 billion, don't you? That's what you just said. That's what we want. Let's not catch each other here. Let's get a good cover. Let's make sure we limit immigration. That doesn't cost us money. But let us not burden citizens and businesses with your increase in charges, because then we are reducing one at the expense of another. We shouldn't do that. Let's cut back on foreign spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u219	A very small correction: the landlord's tax will cost 2 billion. We are going to abolish it altogether. With that other billion, housing corporations can rebuild homes so that people on the waiting list can get to a home. That money wants to use the PVV to pay for the right-wing hobbies of the PVV and we do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u220	Apparently the SP doesn't want to give everything back in the form of rent reduction, because it does something different with that one billion. Mr Bashir says that the SP wants to build houses with the other billion that the tenants pay. We give that back in the form of low road taxes and that also helps the tenants. Again, let us not fight each other here, but reach out and make sure that the €400 or €500 rent reduction, which the tenants want, is possible. We do this not by fighting each other here, but by working together. I hope once again that they are prepared to do so. I shall resume my speech. Unlike the SP Group, most people don't dream of living in social housing their whole lives. Let us assume that. That's not the purpose of most people. Most people want to make a living career. For this purpose, the stuck housing market must move. We have to build for flow. Medium-priced rent above €700 per month does not come from the land. There's a lot of demand for middle-priced rentals, partly because it's hard for a lot of people, likezzp'ers, to get a mortgage. So let us not pretend that this question is only voluntary; it is also partly a forced question. Either you make too much money for a corporation's rental, or you don't come to jail for a mortgage. So let us not focus too much on the average rent. We can also help buyers with easier to obtain mortgages. However, too little is being built in this segment, while there is a lot of demand for homes in this segment. The PVV wants more attention to be paid to this. We therefore support the Minister's plan to include the free sector as a separate category in the zoning plan. If this is carried out properly, we can ensure that more middle-priced rentals are built. We ask the Minister if he wants to make haste with this. What people want most often anyway I know that because I've talked to a lot of people who want to buy a house is building their own house. Building your own home is a dream for a lot of people. Unfortunately, in the Netherlands this is only possible for the happy few. We would like so much more people to be able to do so. However, more affordable building lots will have to be spent. It is not the developers who have to decide how the citizens live, but the citizens themselves should be able to do so. Also terraced houses are fine to build in private commissioning. There are very good examples of this. We have all been looking at these examples. However, it lingers in an experiment here and there. We want that to be done now. Let us ensure that the building culture in the Netherlands changes. Let people build their own homes. This is also possible for terraced houses; the entire canal belt is built in this way. It is possible, people like it and we get beautiful neighborhoods with which people feel connected, instead of the uniformity that the SP always wants. The construction rules should be simpler and the construction legs should be lowered. Is the Minister prepared to set maximum rates for the construction fee? The municipalities consider our eyes too often as milk cow, given the large differences in price. I'll be on the banks and the mortgages. The cabinet has been stupid enough to make the requirements for mortgages much stricter in a declining housing market. As a result, house prices have fallen enormously. This is far less the case in the neighbouring countries. This has made the crisis worse; I refer to the ING report. Fortunately, house prices are rising slightly again, thanks to Draghi's low interest rates, so not thanks to the policy of the cabinet, we have to say "but" still 800,000 households are under water. When I listen to the various spokesmen here, I think: do all these MPs sometimes live in Amsterdam? In Amsterdam, prices may have returned to the level of 2008, but this is not the case in the rest of the Netherlands. Again, 800,000 households are still under water. Houses are for sale for months. In large parts of the Netherlands you can't get rid of your home. So let us not declare Amsterdam to the Netherlands; what applies to Amsterdam is not at all applicable to most parts of the Netherlands. The low interest rate has great advantages for homeowners. We want the Netherlands to benefit as much as possible from this. In Belgium, I have said it here many times, everyone can always transfer their mortgage with a maximum penalty rate of three months. Any Belgian can do that. Therefore, at present there is no Belgian paying more than 2% mortgage interest, while Dutch people who have secured their mortgage for years often pay 4% or 5% mortgage interest. The banks become dormantly rich in that way. Is the Minister prepared to limit the fine that banks charge when transferring a mortgage to three months' interest, as is the case in Belgium? It can be said that the margins of the banks will fall, but in Belgium the rates are even lower than in the Netherlands; that's the crazy thing. So it's possible. We also want to ease the strict requirements for obtaining a mortgage in a responsible way. This cabinet has gone through and made the rules too strict. Zzp'ers who have been able to pay their rent of €800 per month for years can also pay a mortgage? Why do start-ups have to pay off their mortgage completely in 30 years, while existing mortgage holders only have to pay off half of it? That's a strange distinction. Half of it's all right. That's not dangerous. I would also like to point out that there have been no problems with mortgages in the Netherlands at all. They are the best loans you can have in the Netherlands. The Dutch are very loyal in paying their mortgage. Let's not pretend we're America with subprime mortgages. We do not have that problem, nor have we ever had it. The WOZ values of all homes have been made public since 1 October. That has disadvantages for some people, but it also has an advantage. Banks can now see for themselves whether customers are entitled to lower interest rates because their mortgage is lower than the value of their home. Thanks to redemption and rising house prices, more and more people with overvalue on their mortgage are entitled to lower interest rates. The banks say that people aren't at all. SNS has said they're gonna work on this, but I want all banks to. Is the Minister prepared to oblige banks and other mortgage providers, including insurers, to do so? If they can see in the public WPA registers that people are entitled to lower interest rates because the risk of the loan has been reduced, they must inform them. SNS already sets a good example, but all Dutch banks should. I may be prepared to table a motion if I do not get that commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u221	A question precedes that. Is Mr Madlener aware that 75% of the municipalities have not yet reached this point? Only 25% of the municipalities have fulfilled this obligation since 1 October. So 75% hasn't settled it yet. Isn't the question to the Minister what he's going to do to ensure that the municipalities are going to make the World Health Organization values public? 75% have not yet done so. How does Mr Madlener feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u222	Mr Houwers is right about that. The municipalities do not yet have that in order. I'm assuming this will happen in the next few months, and then what I just asked for must happen. Banks should be obliged to actively communicate the interest advantage to the customer, even if the customer does not ask for it or does not know it. That's not gonna happen. Banks are okay with it. They're silent. People are entitled to low interest rates, but they don't get them. For years, we've been asking for it, including the Association of Own Houses. Now I want the Minister to take care of this. The WPA value is public and banks can see for themselves that customers pay too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u223	Mr. Chairman. The last budget of this cabinet, of course, looks back a lot. That's what I'm gonna start with. Many important measures have been taken in the housing market in recent years. In 2013, D66, ChristenUnion and SGP concluded the housing agreement with the coalition. Topics that have long been stuck, such as mortgage interest deductions and social rents, have finally been loosened. Importantly, purchase and rental were dealt with at the same time. That was a big wish from D66. This minister has been given a lot of legislation by Parliament in recent years, with the support of D66. We felt it necessary that after years of stagnation the housing market should finally move. Perhaps this minister has been one of the most effective ministers of the cabinet. My compliments on his ability to act. Of course, that doesn't mean we're 100% satisfied. There are still some outstanding wishes. I'll start at the grocery store. Yeah, we narrowed down the mortgage interest deduction. New mortgage entrepreneurs are now massively choosing to pay off their mortgage in 30 years. After the long and deep decline in house prices, prices rise again. However, there are still plenty of reasons for concern on the market. Last week, the President of the Nederlandsche Bank, Klaas Knot, wrote that after 2030 1 million people are left behind with a residual debt. DNB makes a number of recommendations, for example the accelerated reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction. Can the cabinet respond to the recommendations of this important expert on the housing market? Important measures have also been taken in the rental market. The income-dependent rent increase has led to a decrease in the proportion of the population who are decoupled. Recently, the assessment of the landlord levy showed that the corporations will have sufficient investment space in the coming years to build affordable social housing and invest in sustainability. That's good and necessary news. But in the Netherlands we do see many large regional differences in the housing market. The district agent or teacher cannot afford a suitable home in Amsterdam or Utrecht. Working people are threatening to get between ship and ship. They have a high income for social rent, but a low or uncertain income to buy. At the same time, we have a nationwide system of housing valuation and rent allowance. This does not do justice to the large regional differences, as Aedes has also observed. Does the Minister recognize this image? Does he see a problem here, too? What, in his view, are possible solutions to this problem? As a result, I am also thinking of affordable rentals in the middle segment, because these houses are still not being built sufficiently. The measures announced by Minister Blok on Princess Day are interesting. Mr Madlener also spoke just now about the inclusion in the zoning plans. In my view, that is not enough. We are still getting a lot of signals that municipalities prefer to set up residential properties rather than middle-rental houses, because they simply raise more money. This reminds me of the House Awards Committee, which we have discussed before. Municipalities include targets for the percentage of social housing, but not for cheap middle rents. In Amsterdam, on the initiative of D66, the municipality has included a percentage of middle rent in its policy. Does the Minister think that this is an excellent idea? Shouldn't more municipalities include this in their policies? Isn't that a better stick behind the door than the tables to talk to municipalities and investors? Then I come to another important issue, namely sustainability, an important task for the Netherlands. The energy agreement sets clear targets and many different pots of money have also been made available. The budget also shows that there is not yet a storm, because many of these jars are far from being used. For the corporations there is the Incentive Scheme Energy Performance Rental Sector (STEP). To what extent is this used? When can the Chamber see the first concrete results? In the private sector, too, we still have to work to achieve the goals of Paris. One way to promote sustainability is building-related funding. Although investments in sustainable measures are recouping relatively quickly, many people are still afraid of it. They wonder if they live there for ten years. Don't I move if I can get a new job? If I move, will the new owner pay for my solar panels? Those are understandable questions, but the result is that sensible and profitable investments do not come off the ground. Building-related financing, which we have talked about on a number of occasions, involves financing via a third party, such as a network operator. Then the residents do not have to worry about repaying the investment. Why does the government not continue to implement this building-related funding even after a motion has been passed? Can the Minister, if necessary in consultation with his colleagues, promise that the motion by my colleagues Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr De Vries and Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union, will finally be implemented? I'd like a response. This budget is not just about living, but also about the state service. We are all in favour of an efficient and effective government. I'll signal a problem in this area. Officials' salaries are normally linked to the development of wages in the market sector, although they have not been so in recent years, with zero-lines. Wages in the market sector are rising mainly due to improved productivity. The public sector automatically sees productivity gains in wages through the link. The risk is that this productivity gain will not be realised by the government. The economist Baumol saw it before: organizations with no incentive for productivity are increasing. In response to this, and in response to the crisis, the cabinet has taken many measures in recent years. The question is whether these are really structural measures. For example, a zero line in civil servants leads to catching up over time. That is what we are seeing now, and that is what the CPB keeps saying. It is also right to do so, because the government must be able to compete well in the labour market in order to attract good people, but it does lead to an ad hoc policy. This also applies to the number of officials entered in the budget. The General Court notes that targets are being implemented too abruptly and too quickly with all kinds of risks for implementation. Therefore, my question is whether it is better to create a systematic incentive for innovation and improvement in government rather than various occasional measures such as targets and zero lines. In New Zealand, Finland and Denmark, they have been doing this for thirty years in Australia, and they have had good experiences with it. These countries show that it can work well. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to respond to this and comment on this consideration. I see a pen here, which belongs to Mr Madlener. It's a home union pen!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u224	Mr. Chairman. A good and affordable house in a liveable neighborhood: that's what many people, if you ask them, would like. That sounds very clear, but in recent years of crisis we have noticed that this is not always self-evident. A lot has therefore also happened in the area of living. The sacred houses of the buying and rental market are partly poor, the mortgage interest deduction was finally dealt with and air was blown in the stuck rental sector. My party also contributed to these measures. That doesn't mean everything's fine now. There are still enough challenges for a new cabinet, and I would like to go through some of them with the Chamber. My first point is accessibility. Where the Minister has done a lot of work on the social rental sector and the purchasing sector, the middle segment has remained the step-child of policy, while a well-functioning housing market requires that the social rental sector, the private rental sector and the purchasing sector are compatible. The minister says that the investors are now in line, but where are the houses? The middle segment becomes all the more important when you consider that more and more flexible jobs and people with a flexible lifestyle are being created. How does this minister ensure that more offers are made in the middle segment? The separation of housing and land-use planning seems to be avenging here. Municipalities have their own land policy and their own frameworks. How's the minister gonna bring these two worlds together? We've been asking for it for a few years, but it doesn't seem like much is happening yet. Do we have to take back the direction at this point? My second point is affordability. When this minister arrived, he probably would not have been able to see that in some housing regions there has been overheating on the market. Especially the starters suffer from this, as the NVM reported last week. In general, it may be useful to consider whether we cannot do what about the transfer tax for the starters. But honesty commands us to say that this is now a very big measure to take. I believe that some other, very concrete measures can be taken to meet the start-up. We could, for example, look at Nibud standards at the total housing costs. It has been referred to several times, but an energy-efficient home has lower energy costs. Surely that should be taken into account when applying the Nibud standard? As a result, the question arises when building-related financing is made possible in the sales market. We have been talking about this for a few years, but it is still not being applied. What's the problem here? Is the Minister prepared to make building-related funding really possible in terms of affordability and sustainability? Then I come to sustainability. As for sustainability, the ideals are beautiful, but there is a lot to do in the realization. Some 7.3 million homes need to be preserved in order to have an energy-neutral built environment by 2050. Some corporations are really ambitious and want to move towards an energy-neutral housing stock. However, other corporations remain behind and do not move on. As far as we are concerned, corporations that make a good contribution to achieving zero-on-the-meter housing should be able to obtain a discount on the landlord's tax. So we're not using the stick here, we're using the carrot. We will table an amendment to the Tax Plan to reduce the landlord's tax for this purpose by 100 million. We are covering this by increasing the excise duty on tobacco. In our view, that's win-win. In addition, the question is whether the covenant that the Minister has signed with the housing corporations is ambitious enough. They have to go to label B on average, but that is already the norm in the Building Decision. In short, when corporations build new ones, they always have to comply with this. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we should not look at label steps, but at a reduction in the number of petajoule. Does the Minister agree with us? Does he want to adjust the covenant to that? There is still no decision in the discussion on energy performance compensation in relation to gas. It is important that this is clarified quickly. Let me be clear: for the Christian Union, making the energy performance compensation for gas a no-go is possible. The House Act includes the possibility to create a housing cooperative. Let me look at the PvdA Group, because it was Senator Duivetteijn of the PvdA who lobbied a lot before. It is a small-scale initiative to direct people themselves over their living environment. Several residential cooperatives have started. However, the financing of these cooperatives is sometimes a problem, as we hear. I have also raised this point with the Minister of Finance. Is this Minister prepared to consider how obstacles can be overcome in financing the creation of residential cooperatives? I would like to draw attention to the flow from social care to a form of independent living. The step to a regular rental is quite big for some people. Often there is no suitable living space at all. Some shelters therefore have their own homes under control which they transfer to people who come from the shelter. These are people with specific problems and often high debts, which makes them hardly eligible for a regular home. Although it is not their job, the shelters do not want to leave these people in the cold. However, the compulsory assessment of income results in a huge bureaucracy and a great deal of administrative burden, while it is clear in advance that someone who leaves the care system belongs to the target group. Is the Minister prepared to remove the test of income in housing by social welfare institutions? I'm rounding up. The Minister has done a great job; we also congratulate him on it. I told you, there's still a lot to do. Could I tempt him to indicate which issues he absolutely needs to deal with, possibly also by his successor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u225	My question is not about the points that Mrs Schouten has just raised. My question is about the National Partnership Active residents, an organisation that is very active in the area of local rights. This organization is now subsidised from Wonen and Rijksdienst. It is said, however, that it is no longer about living. The Ministry of the Interior, with which there is a lot of cooperation in the area of local rights, does not say: well, then we will take over the subsidy relationship. What would Mrs Schouten think about proposing to the Minister for Housing and the National Service to consult with the LSA and his Home Affairs colleague on how to deal with this? This organisation should not fall between two ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u226	That seems to me to be a very good proposal. I have heard that it is a small sum on the total budget, even that for Living. I believe that we must indeed ensure that the good work done there does not just disappear. I have to look at how this should take shape, but I absolutely support the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u227	I am considering tabling an amendment on this, but I am also very curious to see what the Minister will say about it. I thank Mrs Schouten for her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u228	Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget of this Minister for Living. So it's time to take stock. What has this minister achieved? Under his inspiring leadership, rents for the lowest incomes increased by 9.5% according to CBS, 14,328 refugees who have status in the COA shelter count their days until they can get into a house, a house they will soon be less eligible for by removing the urgency status for status holders, the number of social rental homes in the cheap segment has fallen dramatically and a landlord levy has been introduced which has reduced investment in energy saving and new social housing. Without additional measures, the agreements of the Energy Agreement will not be reached. As far as the landlord levy is concerned, the Minister comes up with a tax reduction to encourage new construction, but how does he pay it? Exactly, by raising the landlord's tax, and that's a pocket pocket. How many additional homes does he expect to be realised with this proposal? Wouldn't it make much more sense to convert the landlord's tax, in part or in part, into an investment obligation? Now that things are gradually improving, would it not be logical to transform this tax, which was originally intended as a crisis tax, into an obligation for corporations to invest in more and sustainable social housing? Let the housing corporations actually be able to make their homes more sustainable, I ask the Minister. Is a national guarantee also possible, for example? In order to achieve the objectives of the Energy Agreement, more needs to be done in the purchasing sector as well. We would like homeowners who make energy improvements to be able to deduct them from taxes. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this possibility? GroenLinks is critical of the government policy of recent years, but we also see positive points. For example, the ownership of tenants has been extended in the Housing Act. In that law, the co-op eration of housing is regulated, as Mrs Schouten said. Residents are given the opportunity to manage and maintain their homes themselves. I understand, however, that in shrinking regions it is not possible to get things off the ground. For example, in the Frisian Jirnsum a group of residents could only take over the Dekemahiem complex after very long and difficult negotiations with the housing corporation. The housing corporation would like to cooperate, but is obliged under the law to transfer the properties on a market basis. In such cases, what is market-oriented is difficult to determine. Too high a selling price makes the operation of such a cooperative difficult or impossible, with the risk that the houses will eventually be sold individually and will no longer be available as a social housing. The result is that in a village like Jirnsum there will be no social rentals available, even in residential co-operative form. Does the Minister see any way to solve this problem? Another positive point from the past cabinet period is that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was finally ratified. The Netherlands is committed to transforming Dutch society into a society in which everyone can participate independently. Unfortunately, we're not there yet. Compliance with the UN Convention is a responsibility of the entire cabinet. However, in the Housing and Rijksdienst budget, I read almost nothing about it, while in terms of accessibility you would also expect things about the accessibility of state buildings or about building regulations. That is why I ask the Minister for Housing and National Service what still needs to be done in his policy area at a national level to become a UN treaty proof. Or does he think he's finished already? Living is an excellent policy area to be developed together with local residents. I have therefore just drawn attention to the National Cooperative Active Residents in my interruption to Mrs Schouten. This organisation must not fall between two ministries. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to my interruption just now to Mrs Schouten's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u229	Mr. Chairman. The government's been doing a lot of work on the housing market. I admit that the SGP, with a number of fellow groups, has provided strong hand-and-string services. In fact, sacred houses have been demolished. But, yes, that is sometimes necessary in the case of dangerous constructions. I am thinking, for example, of the way in which the mortgage interest deduction was rigged. In the long run, it was no longer feasible to maintain it in this way. The SGP calls for attention to be paid to vulnerable groups in this last budgetary discussion of this cabinet. When renovating the housing market they can unintentionally get even further into the trouble. The issue of mortgage financing standards remains a concern child. This week we received another report stating that the standards are unnecessarily compelling. Many buyers consider that Nibud's standards are not sufficiently consistent with a realistic assessment of their financial situation. Politically speaking, the possibility of derogating from the rules is mentioned, but in practice this is not the case. The system in which financial service providers have to take the risk to deviate from a strict standard often provokes defensive behaviour on the part of lenders. Wouldn't it work better if the loan capacity were to be created on the basis of, for example, a menu of choice which would select the most appropriate parts? Furthermore, the SGP invites the Minister to reflect on the possibility of continuing to provide scope within the loan standards to cover the financing of the transfer tax. This would mean that this year we would stop the further reduction of the permitted borrowing capacity, so that everyone could borrow up to 102% in the coming years. That point has been raised for a while. This seems to offer a wider possibility for start-ups on the market for residential properties. How does the Minister view that? What financial consequences does he foresee? And what are the social consequences and consequences for housing? I'd like to hear his thoughts on this. The second group that deserves attention is the one-earners' group; yes. An earner not only suffers from an extremely unjust, extremely high tax burden, as has been made clear once again. However, this tax burden also causes them to get into trouble in the rental market. For example, their gross income may be subject to an additional rent increase, whereas their net income makes them much worse off than two-earners and others. They can also be excluded from the social rental sector, while sometimes they deserve more access than others. In the Eerste Kamer, attention has been asked for this. Does the Minister see any point in coming to a fairer allocation and calculation on this point and from the point of view of housing? I would like to highlight this point to the attention of the Minister, because there is a serious injustice here. The third and last group I would like to draw attention to is just a small group. And I hope it stays very small. It's about the teenage mothers. In addition to pregnancy, there are also many practical problems for them. There is little support for this on a regular basis. Housing is very important for teenage mothers. Unfortunately, the SGP regularly hears that it is very difficult to arrange that accommodation. My group would think it logical for municipalities to give priority to this small group. Does the Minister support this commitment? We have a similar priority, for example, for carers and persons involved in violence in their relationship. In practical terms, I would ask the Minister whether he is prepared to bring this to the attention of the Association of Dutch Municipalities so that a solution can be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u230	Mr. Chairman. The budget for Wonen and Rijksdienst contains eight lines of text on the longer independent living of older people. There is nothing else: no budget, no measures. Last year, while sufficient housing for older people was identified as one of the four main points in the budget. Apparently, the government thinks it has done enough now that the hunting team has finished its work. But the government website still says that some 144,000 homes are needed for this group every year. The Minister has promised that the government will be happy to take on this role on an ongoing basis, as previously advocated by 50PLUS. Is the Minister going to continue with this? With 50PLUS and the chase team, does he believe that the government is system responsible and must therefore actively ensure the right conditions for its policy to succeed? The government has shifted the responsibility to enable customization in housing issues to the municipalities. That is so far, but the government must take more active action in order to achieve results. Why else do we have another Minister for Living? Municipalities have been given great responsibility for the independent living of older people. An integrated residential care vision is very important. That's what the ANBO thinks. Because living and caring are increasingly linked, the government is obliged to play an active role in our view. What can we expect from the Minister in this regard? Then the availability of social rentals. According to the Woonbond, a report by research firm ABF showed that by 2020 the number of social housing units would decrease by about 5,000, while the need for these homes is high. Especially in the cities, waiting times are staggeringly long. Older and chronically ill live at home longer. There is influx of refugees, outflow from social care, and the high number of divorces also means that this demand is still high. Young people also find it difficult to find an affordable home. In our view, the Minister cannot only point to the parties concerned. What's he gonna do, besides talk, to solve this problem? 50PLUS calls for a national programme of affordable rental homes, a comprehensive action plan to ensure structural deficit reduction while obliging corporations to provide sufficient life-sustaining and energy-efficient housing. I also like to get a reaction to that. The House of Representatives is in the process of examining the amendment of the landlord's tax. Last week we were able to provide the written input. Let us be clear that 50PLUS is first and foremost opposed to this tax, like almost all the experts who spoke in the hearing. The levy was created purely in order to make the state's money available. The ordinary tenants of a social housing unit, usually not the most wealthy, pay the price. The levy also inhibits the realization of new rental homes, because corporations no longer invest this part. This is counterproductive, but there is a social challenge. The creation of suitable homes for older people with relatively light care needs is an extremely urgent social challenge. This happens a lot in former nursing homes where care has become extramural. The residents pay rent, but for many who already have high care costs, it is impossible to pay. It is precisely for that group that the need is high. As a result of this tax, owners have less money available for the development of quality elderly housing, both in the short term and in the longer term. Investment in new home care concepts, fire safety and maintenance will then come under pressure and this is what is needed. That is why 50PLUS proposes that care homes that have been converted or are being converted to self-employed homes with a slight need for care should be included in the reduction scheme. In short, would it not be good to look for a way to reduce the shortage of suitable homes for people with a care demand while this legislation is still in force? 50PLUS can imagine that this can be done through the Scheme reduction rental tax. It has been created in order to address a number of socially urgent tasks, so it is literally possible to address them. That is what we read in the 2014 explanatory memorandum. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I have a question about senior complexes in which residents rent their apartment. Is it conceivable that, after the reduction scheme has been applied, the part that has been released should be invested in maintenance and fire safety? Despite the fact that the Fire Academy found that additional requirements and measures are needed, many people live here with reduced self-reliance and reduced mobility. How is this minister going to ensure that these adapted and energy-efficient homes are actually made available and affordable for people on a small scholarship? The grant right has been extended to €100,000 and the conditions have been extended. Fine. But why not let go of the conditions, as 50PLUS has advocated for a long time? Why a discriminatory age limit for the recipient, if this measure should encourage the housing market? 50PLUS is curious about the views of this Minister of Commerce on this issue, so a reference to his colleague from Finance is not enough in this case. Finally, I have three questions. The rent surcharge goes up by €10, but does that compensate enough for the increase in rents? Is this included in the purchasing power charts? Does the Ministry think there's enough budget this time? Then I have a question for the Minister concerning the renovation of the Binnenhof. What about my adopted motion, which was co-signed by the government's VVD and PvdA groups, on the authorisation of new construction while maintaining the jugendstil façade of the building part called Hotel? Finally, 50PLUS calls for a good regulation for family care homes and family homes. Can the Minister do anything to bring this to the attention of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u231	Mr. Chairman. Minister Blok doesn't see you that often. He's largely out of the picture. You don't see him, but the effects of his policy hit people hard. Professor Peter Boelhouwer rang the alarm clock last summer in Nieuwsuur. There's a huge shortage of social housing. There's a huge shortage of properties. Each year, 30,000 homes are built less than necessary. So year after year the housing shortage is increasing. DENK believes that the government is the final responsible for the housing offer. The way in which you can arrange this can be different from the political parties. But it has to be arranged. That's not happening right now. In our opinion, the government is failing in this. Isn't it ridiculous that people have to fight for a place to sleep, that students have to pay €300 for a six-metre booth, that people can't find a decent and affordable home? We've been seeing this for so long. Then why isn't anything happening? DENK has three solutions. First of all, abolish the landlord's tax. The EUR 1.7 billion tax is partly passed on to the tenants by the housing corporations. For the other part they pay the tax by selling social housing. Tenants get caught twice. They're gonna pay more rent and there's less social rentals available. Ruthless policy, but Minister Blok simply takes out his conscience. DENK's second point: encourage municipalities to sell land for construction projects. Not only to project developers and housing associations, but also to people, to ordinary citizens who want to build themselves, to be creative, to work hard. Just encourage that. DENK's third point: lower rent increases. Allow an inflation correction but no more than that. 'Cause a lot of tenants are in trouble. Figures from the CBS show this. The number of households with relatively low income paying relatively high rents increased significantly, from 8% in 2009 to 13% in 2012. This only increases to 18% in 2015. An ever-increasing group is screwed, thanks again to a number of parties in the government. I'm rounding up. Living is a basic requirement for people. In doing so, the government must assume its responsibility. If the market doesn't work, you intervene. More homes and affordable prices and rents: that's what the Netherlands needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u232	Mr. Chairman. The aim of the housing market should be to get the right people into the right affordable home, with freedom of choice in changing circumstances. That must be our goal. There are many who have a role in this. First of all, that could be the tenants. I would call on them to be particularly flexible in the place where they want to live. Sometimes it is quite possible and also affordable to live a few places away. For those people, I would also like to strive for the possibility of registering with a corporation without applying for registration fees. Then I come to the second group: the corporations. I would like these corporations to make housing available to the target group and to limit themselves to that. It is their main task to ensure that the right people get a place to live, and I believe that this should be done without registration fees. It is said that this is necessary to regulate the pollution of the files of house seekers, but it can also be done in a different way. People who haven't responded for six months or a year, you just unsubscribe. You don't have to do that with registration fees that are demanded from people who rely on a housing corporation. We can see that there are shortcomings in the Rent Committee. The Minister wants to do something about that. I can imagine. He could try to do something preventively. The PvdA already talked about that. Often these disputes concern the setting of the rental price. You could say that in a rental contract always has to be arranged what could ultimately be the rental price. You get an attachment to a rental contract stating what the points are and what the resulting rent is. That might help. That way, fewer cases would join the Rent Committee. You could set that as a condition for granting rent payment. Speaking of rent payment, you might also consider that you are eligible for rent payment only if you meet a certain energy standard. I say that because in the end rent payments are also meant to keep people's living affordable. The housing costs consist of rent, but also of energy costs. It's a little crazy if you give money on the one hand to keep the rent affordable and on the other hand do too little on those energy charges, at least in my opinion. I ask the Minister if he sees any possibility of making a link to ensure that social housing is better isolated. Finally, a word about shrinking areas. In the event of shrinkage, people talk very quickly about the demolition of homes. I understand that this can certainly be a solution, if there is a great deal of vacancy and if it is structural, but I call for it to be seen as the very last option. It is also conceivable that you can stimulate a little extra to make it affordable for people to buy a house in a shrinkage area and thus prevent demolition and prevent self-fulfilling prophecy from running dry. That way you could do something extra for those shrinking areas. You could work with a fund. At least you could do something instead of making demolition costs. In this way you can offer a piece of guarantee to people who want to fulfill their own living needs. This can be done very well in shrinking areas, because I know from my own experience that it is fine to live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u233	We are now ready for the last speaker tonight, Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u234	Mr. Chairman. The last will be the first. I'm glad you're all here to listen to me. I'd like to start with living proof that we have a mobile home. That's me, because I've moved 21 times in my life. I once started in a social rental house in the city of Mr De Vries, in the De Ruyterstraat in Middelburg. There I was in a pre-war upstairs apartment with no central heating. We had a granito floor in the shower. In winter there was ice on it, so if I went showering, I had to spin pirouets on the ice to catch some more drops of hot water. You should imagine what that would look like on YouTube. Well, don't think about it. I would like to thank the Minister and his officials for the great work that has been done again in these budgetary documents. We see a fairly poor piece of policy. I can't blame him for that, because in March 2017, the cabinet will be decommissioned. As regards the fact that it is not such an exciting budget, I would like to make it quite clear that the evaluation of the most discussed topic of this century in the housing sector, the landlord levy, without s, is being discussed separately. There's a bill coming to the Chamber. I am sorry to wait until we put it on the plenary agenda. Then we will talk together about the landlord tax, without s. So I can skip it now; that's how practical I am. Whatever I can skip is the new state of the housing market for the simple reason that it isn't there yet. That's a shame in itself. Moreover, I remain in favour of the annual State of the Housing Market being merged with the annual State of Housing. This helps everyone here to work on an integrated vision of the Dutch housing market for the medium term. I would like to have a response from the Minister to the question of whether we cannot merge these two states and then have a major debate on them every year. Following on, this minister is sometimes accused that he would not have a vision of the housing market. He can prove otherwise here and now. Can he tell us, for example, in one or two paragraphs later this week, his comprehensive vision of the housing market? I'm curious about that anyway. In the 2017 budget of Wonen and Rijksdienst I see that substantial amounts of money are spent on subsidies to third parties. These subsidies add up to tens of millions of euros. I have asked several written questions about this before this debate. Answers were then received, but I regret that the destination of so much public money, taxpayers' money, cannot be found in detail in the budget in advance at 100%. I would prefer to see a more proactive approach in the next budget. In this respect, I would ask the Minister to indicate in detail, per grant, how the department controls exactly what that grant money was spent on. Expensive dinners, lease cars and consultants are not good destinations for public money. I would like to receive a serious response from the Minister to the question of how exactly the responsibility takes place and how strict the department afterwards looks at the destination of these public funds. Then I'll put a few words on the rent payment. The Court of Auditors rightly calls for further attention to be paid to the overrun of the estimates of the rent payment to be paid. In the last ten years this has happened no less than nine times, with an average overrun of 10.5%. Then there is something really wrong with your estimation system, I say to the Minister. Okay, deviations are not preventable by changes in the number of applicants, in rents and in incomes, but by default an average deviation of 10.5% I find way too much. In what way can more accurate assessments be made? Can this be done, for example, by using more up-to-date figures? That's an advantage for the cabinet, isn't it? Now the Chamber has to wait every time for a message from the cabinet about the size of the annual hole and how it will be closed again. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. What about a horizon for the rent allowance? In the coming years, the rent payment will continue to increase and increase, thus re-launching the large circulation of money and the complexity of our tax system. Is the Minister not afraid that, under unchanged policies, the rent allowance will soon take over the role of care as the largest cost riser in the public domain? I have taken note of all the measures taken in the context of mortgage interest relief. I think that's enough for now. I am therefore pleased that no further action is being taken. I do agree with Mr Bashir that the loan to value should simply stand at 102%. I am even prepared to table an amendment or motion on this. So I would like to get a serious response from the Minister. Why should the loan to value fall below 102%? What is the risk to our financial system, to the banks or to the mortgage contributors? In my opinion, 102% is certainly reasonable, especially in a system where you have to pay in an annuity. Here's what I really need to get off my chest. I haven't heard from anyone about it for years, but I would like to talk about the decoupling of the income tax rate you pay and the rate at which you are then entitled to deduct something. You pay 52% tax, but in 2017 you deduct the mortgage interest at 50% and later only at 38%. This break-up of the closed system of taxation and deduction at the same rate, in my view, results in a sliding scale. That's contrary to my sense of justice. What does the Minister actually think of this? Can he tell us if there are any other plans on the drawing table of departments to come up with such detachments from the tax payable versus deductible amounts? In general, I would like to emphasise that I very much regret the apparent contradiction that some people wish to make between buyers and tenants. You can't compare apples to pears; both ripen on their own tree. If you try to cut one, it's gonna hit yours and you're gonna lose your own pears. Buyers can now have low monthly charges in terms of mortgage due to that interest rate, but I would add that interest rates can also rise anytime. Moreover, owners and buyers pay for the total WOZ charges, for maintenance and for the risks on the housing market when an air bubble is empty again. So I give tenants a good and affordable home, but I also give buyers the pleasure of their property. Those two are not at odds with each other, and we shouldn't make them. At the last AO Housing Corporations, I received a commitment from the Minister that he would send a letter to this Chamber prior to the budgetary treatment containing an overview of the corporate income tax of housing corporations received in 2014 and 2015 as well as an estimate for 2016. As everyone knows, I am in favour of abolishing the full Vpb obligation for housing corporations and I would like to return to an agreement between the corporations and the Tax Administration on a partial Vpb obligation on the non-DAEB document. The Minister would also indicate what it would cost to exempt from transfer tax when transferring social property between housing corporations, for example when adapting portfolios to new housing market regions. Where's the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u235	At the very beginning of the evening I put a question to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD. Multinationals and large companies pay corporation tax, profit tax. Housing corporations pay them too, but they also have to pay the landlord's tax imposed on this cabinet. Doesn't that double-tax social tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u236	I can say a few things about that. Firstly, the total income from corporation tax of non-corporate housing corporations is a multiple of corporation tax coming in from corporations. Secondly, the landlord levy is a deduction for the housing corporations and of course other Vpb contributors do not have it. Thirdly, in my counter-budget calculated by the CPB, everyone can read that even I have found the landlord's tax half as much as cover for it, so that there is a flywheel for more investment in construction. After all, everyone asked for it at a hearing in this Chamber. So yes, there is a double taxation, but of course there are many more sectors that face not only a tax on profits or income, but also a tax on something else within that entity. If you can deduct those charges from each other, there is still a reasonable combination of those two, but the overall tax burden on an entity will have to be measured by many more factors. In that sense, this is the comparison of apples and pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u237	We know Mr. Van Vliet as a good fiscalist or former fiscalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u239	If you just look at what taxpayers pay, you will see that everyone has to pay corporate tax. However, the social landlords also pay the landlord's tax. He's gonna get on top of it. Would it not be fair to argue in this context at least that the tax on profits for the core tasks of social landlords should be abolished, so that at least they do not have to pay the profit payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u240	That's a relevant question. I have just said in my speech that everyone knows that from the outset I am in favour of abolishing the obligation for the SGEI, i.e. for the social rental sector. I have written an extensive opinion article on this for tax students in the Netherlands. Why is that my opinion? The only reason for introducing the full Vpb obligation on that SGEI was that there was a risk of a State aid discussion with the European Commission in Brussels. This risk has disappeared because we are going to make a strict separation between SGEIs and non-DAEBs. Everyone has to split up and separate. Yoo-hoo! So you can also say that we are going to have a healthy vision of this SGEI piece in terms of tax burden. That's why my proposal is to look at the Vpb yield first. It was estimated at 500 million years ago. In recent years this is far from coming in, but it is expected that the yield will increase. There's a compensatory barrel in there, with the landlord's tax as a deduction. We will see how the tax profits of that sector will turn out. I would like to build on this by putting forward a concrete proposal to abolish the Vpb obligation for the SGEI and to conclude a new covenant with the tax authority for a partial Vpb obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u241	You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u242	Thank you. I was just talking about the transfer tax. So I would like to see a letter from the Minister on this, because I want to know how much it costs and I really want to get rid of this transfer tax, especially when transferring social housing in the context of housing market regions. As regards the Authority's housing corporations, I believe I would still be given an answer from the Minister to an earlier question about messy noises from the Inspectorate's Environment and Transport, which, to my great regret, is still the responsibility of the Authority's housing corporations. Indeed, there was a question of a letter from the Authority housing corporations, signed by the ILT inspector-general. That signatory, of course, should have been the director of the Authority's housing corporations and not that inspector general. So I would ask the Minister once again to be clear about the challenge of competence that I feel, hear and see, and the risks to the Authority's status of housing corporations as an integral regulator with bite for this sector. None of us here, as we stand here, sit and watch our iPhone, has a magic wand to solve the major challenges of housing with one spell; neither do I. Politics, policy makers, corporations, investors, builders and certainly the landowners also need to work together on their own interests in order to provide people in the Netherlands with a suitable home. That is also the case in the Constitution. In the end, it's about tenants and house seekers. That's what I'm standing for. Moreover, after the next elections, I would be more than happy to call for a separate Secretary of State or perhaps a Minister for Housing. It would be nice if we went back to the heart of the matter, because housing is at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u243	I have one final clarifying question. It was a little fast when it came to taxation. Mr Van Vliet is a well-known fiscalist in this Chamber. Mr Bashir just said that the housing corporations pay a double charge because they pay corporate tax and the landlord's tax. Mr Van Vliet then referred to SGEIs and non-DAEBs. But just a sec, apart from that: is Mr Bashir's claim that there is a double taxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u244	Actually, that's not right. You have corporation tax and income tax. Before you pay the income tax, you look at how much tax profit you have. You can subtract from anything. That is just as the SP's are allowed to deduct their contribution to the party; that is supposed to be a gift. The landlord's tax is certainly not a gift, but in corporate tax you can deduct it, because you don't get it back from anyone. So you pay less corporate tax on balance. Those are communicating vessels. There's an element of reasonableness in that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-21.u246	That is a wonderful answer to your question, Mr Koolmees. With this we close the first term of the Chamber.
