ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Segers, Mr Kooiman and Mr Volp to section K. They are supported by Ms Christel Wiskerke, policy officer of the SP Group, Mr Ton Langenhuijsen, policy officer of the PvdA Group and Mr Arjan Vedder, policy officer of the Christian Union. Welcome! I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, who is acting as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first deadline on the part of the Chamber was already held on 15 October last year. Today, the initiators and the minister will answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u2	Madam President. First of all, a household announcement: let me tell you what the division of roles is between us. I will talk in general about the purpose and meaning of the legislative proposal, about the evaluation and about the amendment tabled by GroenLinks. Mr Volp will talk about the responsibility of the customer and about the difference between fault and intent, which has also been necessary in the amendment. Mr Kooiman will talk about the willingness to report, the Wrp and the legal sector and will take care of the reactions of organisations. There are also a few separate issues that will come back here and there, but this is in general the division of roles. It is with great pleasure and with great conviction that I stand here, together with my colleagues Volp and Kooiman. We have been working together for some time to find our own interpretation of parliamentary responsibility in the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. We want to give it our own content. It is remarkable to note that, coming from different political traditions, you find each other on the issue of this initiative legislative proposal and this issue. This issue, the fight against coercion and exploitation of women and men in prostitution, is very close to our heart. But the cooperation between the three of us extends much wider, first and foremost to the whole Chamber. We thank colleagues for their contributions in the first term and for their questions. This also shows a great deal of commitment to this issue. No matter how we think about this bill, we find each other in a shared desire to fight against forced prostitution and trafficking in human beings. I am thinking in particular of a joint trip from our Committee on the Rules of Procedure to Bulgaria and Romania. In his first term, VVD colleague Van Oosten referred to that trip, in which the then VVD spokesperson also participated. That was Mr Van der Steur at the time, who now sits on my left as Minister. As spokesperson, we were given more insight into the impact of trafficking in human beings, coercion, exploitation and the sometimes sad breeding ground of this exploitation, including in Roma communities. It is particularly important to note that we politicians have a shared interest in this matter: we want trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution as much as we can and we want to stop as much as possible. This involves values such as physical integrity, human dignity and ultimately our freedom. Mr Van der Staaij recalled the cooperation of a century ago between the then women's movement and the Christian movement of the Reveil. That was a very striking equation. It turns out we can do what we could then. As we sit here together, we are living proof of this: you can come to the same position with different beliefs. There is also broad support outside the Chamber for the fight against trafficking in human beings and also for this bill. First of all, it is appropriate to mention that this initiative proposal is a result of a recommendation from the National Rapporteur, Mrs Dettmeijer. We all know her as a competent, involved and authoritative rapporteur. Based on what she has seen and reported, she has made the recommendation to also give clients of forced prostitution a responsibility. That is why she supports this bill. While we are aware that Europe's encouragement does not impress everyone equally, for the sake of completeness, I would point out that our initiative can also be seen as a result of the 2011 European directive on this subject. That Directive requires Member States to consider measures such as the criminalisation of customers using the services of a prostitute, while knowing that the person concerned is a victim of trafficking in human beings. That is exactly what we intend to do with this bill. In addition, we have the support of the Public Prosecutor's Office and, for example, of the Amsterdam Police Commissioner, Mr Aalbersberg, and of Henk Werson, who has been the leader of the police for many years in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and is also the author of the book "De fatale fieuk" on forced prostitution. These statements of support at the same time provide answers to Parliament's questions on the enforcement and effectiveness of the bill. Because the people who take the lead in the fight against trafficking in human beings have just reported their support for our initiative. They have indicated that our bill would help them in their struggle. So the people who have to work with this law are very much in favour of this proposal. We, as proposers, share with them the hope that this law will lead to more reports of coercion and exploitation, less trafficking in human beings, more criminal proceedings against traffickers and more freedom for the sometimes vulnerable women and men in prostitution. Organisations with a heart for victims also support our bill. I am thinking of Fier Fryslân, who specialises in the care of victims of human trafficking, but also organisations such as Defence for Children and Free a Girl, who have expressed their support and hope that the Chamber will accept this bill. We hope so, of course. If I can afford a personal note: the victims I have personally met are an important, if not the most important, motivation to participate in this initiative legislative proposal. When I was with Fier Fryslân, I started talking to a group of very resilient African women. I found that there were vital, strong women among them, but there was also a Ghanaian woman among them who was a victim of forced prostitution who looked at me without expression. Because of what was done to her, the light had gone out in her eyes. I'll never forget that look. Mr Van Tongeren van GroenLinks said two weeks ago in Nieuwsuur that it could be worth it if only a few victims had been helped. I very much agree with that. Colleagues Volp and Kooiman will undoubtedly do that to me. To prevent coercion and exploitation in prostitution, the Netherlands has the so-called barrier agent. We are trying to put up as many dams, barriers and barriers as possible against trafficking in human beings. Everyone has a responsibility: operators, municipalities, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, specialised judges and aid workers. But there is one gap in this model and that is the responsibility of the customer. That's actually the missing link. In the case of underage victims of forced prostitution, there is no such gap. I would like to point out, for example, the penalties that were imposed last week in the Schiedam case. There, the abuse of a 16-year-old girl in a filthy basement box led to a criminal case and ultimately to convictions. In that case, the customers were convicted because they knew or might have known that this was abuse. In the case of an 18-year-old victim, customers could not have been held responsible. We want to change that. Customers of an adult victim of involuntary prostitution also bear a responsibility. That is the starting point. I now come to a number of more specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u3	I do not rule out the fact that Mr Segers had gotten to this subject after this fine introduction. I am suddenly listening in his words to a reference to a European directive. I don't think it's as sharp as he undoubtedly has in mind. I also heard him say that the European directive sets a sharp limit and talks about science. At least that's how I heard it. This joint bill is wider and also includes "suspects." If the authors are inspired by the European directive or even more so, if it is perhaps even the basis for this legislative proposal, what makes it possible for them to make a different choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u4	We will come back to 'knowing and conjecture' and its variations. Mr. Volp will take care of that. On the basis of that directive, the National Rapporteur recommended that this word proposal be drawn up. So it's based on the directive. The directive does not prescribe exactly what wording and how to shape responsibility, but that there is a responsibility with customers was the recommendation of the directive. We have succeeded in this by means of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u5	Finally, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u6	I understand, then, that the intention of the directive is probably not so far apart from that of the legislative proposal, but that it might be so, I would say with some caution, because I do not know the merits of the directive exactly that the directive actually sets a sharp limit in science. That is relevant to me in that sense, that this is exactly the border that my colleague Mr Swinkels and I would consider to be responsible when it comes to the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u7	I'll look up the exact terms. That is what my colleagues will come back to in the second term. It was the debate following that directive that led to the choice of the Minister responsible at the time not to work on a legislative proposal as we have tabled. He wouldn't put that responsibility there. We believe that responsibility should lie there. This initiative proposal follows the directive from Europe, while the Minister at the time said 'I will leave it alone'. That was a very clear political choice. We have made the choice to assume the responsibility of the customer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u8	I have just heard Mr Segers say that we are dealing with combating trafficking in human beings. I think we all share that aim in this Chamber. Trafficking in human beings must go out of the world. My question is very brief: how is this bill actually going to combat trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u9	I have a simple answer to that: by placing the responsibility of a very important actor in that barrier model. We want to place responsibility on a link that is still lacking. This means that there are more eyes and ears of people who can see human trafficking, coercion and exploitation, who are not yet being made aware of their responsibilities. However, this legislative proposal points to their responsibility. So there'll be more people looking around. There will be more people who know that, if they do not report, they can be held accountable. That will lead us to hope that we will get more reports and at least raise awareness. It will, we hope, lead to more reports on trafficking in human beings, to more criminal proceedings and ultimately to a better, more effective fight against forced prostitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u10	You are talking about responsibility, and in one breath you are talking about what happens if they do not take that responsibility and do not report it. Am I mistaken now, but this bill doesn't say anything about criminalisation if a client doesn't report a miscarriage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u11	That is, of course, at the heart of the legislative proposal. We're gonna talk about the gradations, but you have a responsibility, and if you fail, if you know or could have known something, if the evidence is so obvious that you see someone being beaten, exploited or forced, if you look away and if you might report it to fellow customers, to others, but not to the police, yes, you could be punishable. We've had the case on the Sandpad, but well that's an administrative approach where an operator had responsibility, saw wrongdoings, registered, but didn't report them. That led to the withdrawal of the licence. Non-compliance with your responsibility, looking away, can therefore have consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u12	This is an essential point, which is why I should like to comment on it. Is it true that in this bill the prostitute's failure to report wrongdoing in the situation in which he makes use of the services of a prostitute is punishable on his own?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u13	That depends on the circumstances. We have designed it in such a way that it depends on whether a customer has a serious suspicion. Can the state's attorney make it clear that he might have had a serious suspicion? If that does not lead to a report, there will be a number of consequences. This is partly the role of the customers, which Mr Volp will speak about. The essence of the bill is that a responsibility is placed on them. We've seen criminal cases where clients have looked away from underage victims. In the cases in Valkenburg and Schiedam, for example, customers knew or could have known. They looked away and the abuse and exploitation continued. As a legislator, as a enforcer of the law, you cannot keep looking away endlessly. Customers have a responsibility to which they are addressed. I will continue with some specific questions. GroenLinks' colleague Van Tongeren raised the question whether the authors of the fight against exploitation have placed too much trust in criminal law. Indeed, our initiative proposal focuses on criminal law, because we believe that the role and responsibility of customers in forced prostitution has been neglected. It is important to stress that it is not the first goal of our law to prosecute and put as many customers as possible behind bars. An important objective of our law is to anchor a moral starting point, namely that no one should look away from exploitation and coercion. I have just exchanged this with Mr Swinkels as a result of her interruption. So customers shouldn't look away either. Our law is first and foremost an incentive for customers to report signs of trafficking in human beings. At the same time, the initiative proposal is in a broader context, as we have always stressed. Criminal law alone is not enough to combat exploitation and trafficking in human beings in prostitution. If the Wrp, the law on prostitution and the fight against sexual abuse, is accepted, important steps can also be taken through administrative law. Locally, through the licensing policy and the general police regulation, the supervision of the prostitution sector can be further developed. This has already been designed in many places, but on adoption of the bill there will be a uniform system. However, you cannot narrow the commitment to combating trafficking in human beings to the law. It is also important, for example, that operators and customers can properly report signs of coercion and exploitation. Mr Kooiman will say what he needs to say. The Christian Union Group, like a number of other groups, referred to the case in Valkenburg to which I referred. The question was about the judge appealing to the minor victim as a prostitute. Among other things, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings has spoken shamefully of this. The girl was a victim of abuse and not a prostitute. We agree with the national rapporteur. Our bill also always sees clients of men or women who are victims of trafficking in human beings. That is also why, as I outlined at the beginning, several parties with different views were able to table this bill together. This is not a bill for or against prostitution. This is a bill against trafficking in human beings. We want to tackle trafficking in prostitution by closing the legal gap in criminal law which has prevented a customer from being called upon to take responsibility for victims of trafficking in human beings. Mr Helder has pointed out that she considers the penalties imposed under Article 248b Sr, the conduct of sexual acts with a minor, to be far too low. She also referred to the case in Valkenburg. I agree with Mr Helder that it is important for society to recognise the seriousness of these serious sexual offences and that they should be properly punished. I therefore commend our proposal to Mrs Helder. This makes it possible for judges, especially in the case of minors, to impose penalties. We have done so on the advice of the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings and have amended it by means of a letter of amendment. There's been a criminal-aggravating ground introduced. The rapporteur has also been critical of the level of penalties on this point. I see Mrs Helder at the interrupting microphone, but I will finish my answer and then take a break. If a customer has sexual contact with a minor and he should have known that she is a victim of trafficking in human beings, there is a penalty increase. Mr Volp will soon say more about the case law, but with our initiative proposal, situations similar to the Valkenburg case may end differently, provided there are sufficient indications of trafficking in human beings and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u14	I can go along with that, because in my initial contribution I also cited the Valkenburg vice case, not only because I think the penalty is too low, but above all because the judges have used the escape clause to circumvent the public service ban. What happened was one day in prison and then a community service. In my group's view, this is a completely wrong signal when it comes to trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. I hear Mr Segers say the same. My first contribution was that, unfortunately, I do not see this bill as a handle which makes it impossible for judges to punish this kind of bad case lighter. That was my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u15	We have to make a distinction. A criminal grounds have been introduced. We have indeed introduced it on the advice of the National Rapporteur. That's the part about underage victims. As far as community service is concerned, I understand the emotion very well. I think, however, that it is too far-fetched to let us shine light on this on behalf of the three parties sitting behind the table. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. I understand the emotion very well. In other forms, we debated this at some point. I shall leave Mrs Helder's comment on her behalf. Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union has asked about the criminal responsibility of persons other than the customer for the welfare of victims of trafficking in human beings. As an example, he mentioned a doctor who is involved in breast augmentation or abortion, while the woman concerned did not take that decision autonomously, but also people who facilitate housing or false employer statements. It is good to emphasise that many of these acts are already punishable, perhaps not in the sphere of human trafficking, but in a different way. For example, a doctor who knowingly treats a woman against her will is in trouble with disciplinary law. The provision of a false employer's declaration should not be allowed either. That is covered by falsehood in writing and fraud. I note that the previous quickscan states that, under existing legislation, customers are difficult to address on their responsibility if they use victims of trafficking in human beings. We think that is an undesirable situation. As initiators, we are trying to eliminate this situation through this initiative legislative proposal. Other situations can be dealt with in a different way. The SGP Group wants to introduce a minimum age for visiting prostitutes. At least that was Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion. His group is considering tabling an amendment to that effect. The initiators believe that such an amendment is somewhat alien to the purpose of this bill, namely to regulate the criminal responsibility of the customer in situations of trafficking in human beings in prostitution. This amendment also applies, in fact, to the amendment tabled by the CDA Group proposing a ban on pimping. The question is whether it is wise for the Chamber to strengthen this bill with what is proposed in these amendments. We do not make a substantive assessment of the proposals made by both groups, but we are asking whether the proposed amendments should be included in this legislative proposal. Of course, Mr Van der Staaij can table his amendment, but the authors consider it undesirable to link the necessary complement to the criminal justice instruments in their own-initiative proposal with such proposals. In fact, these are proposals that require a separate legislative process, so that the Court can discuss them further. Our advice to Mr Van der Staaij is therefore to work out his proposal separately from this proposal and to come up with a separate proposal. It is clear that the debate on an effective approach to forced prostitution continues and that we will continue to talk about the best use of resources in that fight. These resources could perhaps play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u16	Indeed, you might ask yourself whether the law on prostitution and the fight against abuses of sex industry should not also be part of the law on prostitution proposed by me. It might as well have a place in it. I am quite prepared, if that is seen as a burden on this legislative process, to raise it there. Does Mr Segers see the connection with this bill? Could you also ask 17-year-olds to make sure that there is no exploitation? It concerns all clients of prostitutes. In this sense, the question may arise as to whether it is appropriate and reasonable to demand that of 17-year-olds. Is it true that we do not attach a minimum age to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u17	I think this is a very understandable question, but it could be that the three parties sitting behind the table think differently. What is even more important is that this is a matter of criminal law, whereas that proposal is much more in line with administrative law. You have to distinguish that carefully. I understand the question and I am happy to enter into the debate, but I think that the criminal route that we are proposing here should not be increased by the proposal of a minimum age.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u18	I see the point of wanting to focus the debate now on what the legislative proposal sees as the most important issue. As far as I am concerned, however, the criminal route can also be considered at the minimum age. On the latter, too, you can threaten with punishment if you do not follow the rules. Anyway, let's continue this discussion with that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u19	Fine. As a result, Mr Van der Staaij also asked whether the ban on pimping falls within the scope of Article 273f. In itself, a possible pimp ban falls outside the scope of this bill. As initiators, we have deliberately chosen to come up with a legislative proposal that really focuses on the responsibility of customers of victims of trafficking in human beings. The quickscan showed that there is a legal gap there. However, this is different for pimping. There are many comments about the practice of applying Article 273f, but the article is designed to be able to deal with pimps when they turn out to be human traffickers. That's the additional fact. I know the view of Judge Peter Lemaire, who has indicated that Article 273f does not fulfil that role in practice, that it does not actually succeed in dealing with pimps who are traffickers. So I also know his plea for an additional ban on pimping. As I said earlier, it may be that we think differently, but it is not in the interests of this bill to have that discussion now and here. I have already heard some understanding of this in Mr Van der Staaij's contribution. We will undoubtedly discuss it, but not here and now as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u20	There is an amendment on the ban on pimping, but that is not part of this bill. For a moment there was the idea that it was inserted here, but it wasn't. It was filed with the other bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u21	That's a fair addition. The questions were raised with this bill, but the amendment is elsewhere. Thank you for this addition. Mr Van Laar of the PvdA Group has asked whether proof of all the elements of Article 273f 1.1 is also required for the certification of Article 273g (2). That sounds very technical, but it is an important point. Force is not a necessary component to prove abuse of minors. Mr Van Laar wanted to know whether the second paragraph added to the letter of amendment would remain the same. I can answer the question in the affirmative: this remains so. On the advice of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, we have provided for an increase in penalties for minor victims in an exploitation situation. There is an exploitation situation when the victim is in a vulnerable situation which gives the opportunity to exploit. Such a situation can be proven fairly easily in the case of minor victims. For this purpose, it is expressly not required to certify all the elements of Article 273f 1.1. I would stress that this also applies to coercion. We therefore support the opinion of the National Rapporteur and the drafting of Rule 248. Finally, I would like to comment on the amendment tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, although Mrs Van Tongeren has just left the Chamber. I hope and see she's listening. The amendment calls for an evaluation of the law. We can well imagine that an initial evaluation will take place after two years. Then you can check with the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the police, with aid workers, with municipalities and, of course, with prostitutes themselves. As far as we are concerned, the national rapporteur should also play a role in this. I stress that the value of this law cannot be read in terms of the number of convicted customers or the number of reports. I would like to quote once again the author of the amendment, Mr Van Tongeren: the law has value even if only a few victims have been helped with it. We underline that. If this is also reflected in the evaluation, the value of this law will also be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u22	In addition to this repeated quote from Nieuwsuur: what did not arrive in Newsuur is that I regularly said that it is GroenLinks' position that legal sex workers should be able to do their work in a safe environment. We believe that abusers of human trafficking victims should be prosecuted. In doing so, we take a different position than at least one of the proposers, the Christian Union, because it does not really want prostitution at all. We simply want safe and well-maintained legal sex workers to do their job and fight the abuses. There should be no misunderstanding that the Christian Union and GroenLinks take a different view on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u24	I am almost at the end of my reply, Madam President. I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren marks that position, but let us also be clear that this bill is not about whether you are for or against prostitution, but about combating trafficking in human beings. We are concerned with the fight against trafficking in human beings, and in that sense I thought that 'if only a few people were involved' was a nice quote and that is why I repeated this quote. That evaluation must indeed be broad, and that requires the involvement of all the actors involved. As I said, this is about the prostitutes themselves. But the degree of success will not be read to, for example, the number of convicted customers, because it is not the primary goal of the bill to get as many people behind bars as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u25	I refer to Mr Segers' remark that dealing with trafficking in human beings is the broad objective of the legislative proposal. I appreciate that, but I don't really understand why he explicitly chose to limit it to prostitution. Can he go into that again? I ask that because I can imagine that there are other forms of trafficking in human beings... Or is this point perhaps taken up by one of Mr Segers' colleagues? If so, I will put this question there along this road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yes, that point will be taken later. Madam President. I will conclude with a final sentence on Mr Van Tongeren's amendment, namely that we would like to leave the opinion on that amendment to the House. We can live very well with the evaluation she proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u27	I would like to touch on the last thesis of the initiator that it is not the primary goal to put as many people behind bars as possible. Nevertheless, this initiative proposal only regulates the criminalisation of the person who has sex, let me put it briefly with a forced prositué. How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mrs Swinkels should have added something to that: if he knows if he has a serious suspicion of coercion, exploitation or involuntaryness. Then he does have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u29	So criminalising the client is the only thing the bill does. Yet the initiator says: it is not our goal to put as many people behind bars as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u30	We must distinguish between the means and the purpose. The aim is to combat trafficking in human beings. The aim is to give responsibility to anyone who has a view or can have a view of human trafficking and forced prostitution. We want to encourage those people by saying: if you see something, you have not only the moral but also the legal duty to report it. Why? Because in the end, we want the human traffickers behind bars. We want to cut off human traffickers, and we can do it with this drug. So the goal is not to put as many customers behind bars as possible. The aim is to draw these men's attention to their responsibilities, and that can indeed have criminal consequences. But that's not the highest goal. How can that be the highest goal? The highest objective is the fight against trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u31	I would ask the initiators whether this is the best way of achieving that goal. The remedy is the criminalisation of the customer, but that customer is the key figure. It is at some point closest to the potential victim of trafficking in human beings. That is the means to combat trafficking in human beings. The remedy is the criminalisation of the customer and that customer can report those abuses. Is he gonna do that if he's a criminal, if he's risking having to answer to a judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u32	The role of the customer will be discussed in detail, but yes: he is responsible. That's what we already think of underage victims. I mentioned the Schiedam case, where customers knew. They saw it. They went into a dirty basement box there. There were men around that. You knew and could see that it wasn't right. There was an exploitation situation, a very poignant situation. Customers knew, could know, and yes, the judge has pronounced sentences and said: you are responsible. Then the highest goal isn't to put that underage victim's client behind bars. What you want is for vulnerable people to be helped in vulnerable situations and to be protected by the legislator and the enforcer of the law. That's the highest goal. We know the examples. They'll be called that. The same applies to adults. There's a responsibility to the customer, but that's not the only thing. We're not just looking at the customer. I've outlined the broad context. That responsibility is very broad. Everyone has a role, but excluding the customer from responsibility we find weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u33	Maybe I should just help out a little bit. I do that on purpose because I am confused by what is brought in from D66. Is it not naive, I ask the initiators, to assume from D66 that we should put our cards to deal with it, on the people who see the misery, and I say it now very flatly, and then think: let me not mention it now, because I have made use of it? We shouldn't be talking about the people who go over that, should we? We have to talk about the people who think: no, stop, this is a drama, I'm not doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u34	You refer to D66, so I will give Mrs Swinkles the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u35	Let me be very clear and make it very clear that D66 is for criminalising in the design variant. So it is certainly not so that I have just heard the initiators say that someone who knows and then, in Mrs Van Toorenburg's words, goes over it should not be punishable. Only the debt variant goes too far for us, and everyone in this room knows that. And here's what I'm gonna say. I think that now the question remains over this debate as to whether the customer's failure to report a wrongdoing is punishable. That's not in the bill. So my question is again: where is that in the bill? I think we should get that out of the air first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think Mr Segers has said that Mrs Kooiman will comment on the willingness to report. And Mrs Volp will also comment on it, so this comes back comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u37	That's right. I'll respond briefly. The Public Prosecutor's Office has provided examples that are similar to what Mrs Van Toorenburg said very plastically, namely that there are customers who tell each other as well. They tell each other in what distressing situations they encounter a prostitute, but do not take their responsibility or report it. That is morally very reprehensible and we are drawing a line there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Volp for the customer's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. Mr Segers has already referred to it: this is a special moment. It is special, because it is a privilege to be able to defend an initiative legislative proposal as a Member of Parliament, but also because it is special to really be allowed to stand here in box K. So I'm pretty nervous. It is also special because this is a special cooperation between three parties who find each other on this issue and want to take a step forward on this issue, the fight against trafficking in human beings. Mr Segers also said that the run-up to this has not been easy. The subject of trafficking in human beings plays a role, especially in prostitution, emotion and morality. It is a subject on which we may still be suspicious of each other in terms of the underlying motives. What purpose do we have? And what means are we going to use? As a physician, I have learned to look and listen carefully and not to rely on assumptions. We also operated on three of them in the run-up to this law: talking to experts, thinking about how to work, how to update and possible side effects. I am convinced, with my two colleagues, that this initiative law is necessary. As far as I'm concerned, it's about common sense. Anyone who sees that there is trafficking in human beings and benefits from it must not get away. That is what Article 273g is about. The tricky thing is that we are dealing with terms that are not always used as purely as possible, because, as far as I am concerned, 'involuntary prostitution' is a contradiction in terms. Trafficking in human beings is not part of prostitution. It should not be about customers or prostitutes, but also about profiteers, where they consciously use a victim of trafficking in human beings. Not wanting to see, not wanting to hear and not wanting to act in those situations where that can and should be, is unacceptable. The fact that this is an emotional and moral debate also means that this is not a gratuite law. It's a law that won't be easily caught up in for or against. We are, as Mr Segers said, Chamberwide against trafficking in human beings, and as spokesmen on this issue, both coalition and opposition, we often engage together in discussions on this issue. The three initiators, through discussions with the field, with experts, and through the quickscan carried out to see if there is a real legislative gap, consider that this initiative law can contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings. Yes, people who are professionally involved in trafficking are of the opinion that this law can contribute, and yes, the quickscan showed that there is a gap in current legislation. There is no simple solution, but we firmly believe that this initiative law can contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings. Let me say straight away about Mr Van Oosten's interruption to the input of my colleague Mr Segers on the content of the directive. In the directive, we have looked for it; we do so very quickly, Article 2 (1) states that intent must be punishable, but, I repeat, the directive states that it is a minimum. So it's a minimum possibility. The national rapporteur has also expressed his views on this. Mr Van Oosten (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van Oosten for his excellent report. I'm interrupting now because I'm looking at the interrupting microphone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u40	You shouldn't do that, because you'll be interrupted immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u41	I'd also like to continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u42	You were in the middle of a general introduction, Ms. Volp?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u43	I have a rather comprehensive introduction; I can therefore imagine that I will deal with the possible interruption of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u44	That's good. I shall then give Mrs Swinkels the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u45	The phrase "being professionally involved" triggered me. I've seen victims of trafficking in human beings in court. This is always about situations of people who are completely controlled by a human trafficker. I have just heard you say: if people who use victims of this kind know, they have to take responsibility. My question to you would be: is this responsibility not to report abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u46	They must act. They should not use them. That's the first thing. They must then assume their responsibilities. Whether they report, report, seek help or contact others to discuss what they can do, I find the responsibility associated with seeing signals that are clear to any well-thinking person, of having to do with a prostitute who does not do it voluntarily. Calling in isn't an end in itself, it's a means. Perhaps we will have this discussion more often in this debate. Our aim with this law is to ensure that the customer who knows or has a serious suspicion based on the signals acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u47	Now I have read in the explanatory statement what signals it should be. As a judge, I found it very difficult to establish that. My question to you is: what signals the customer should notice, do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'll get back to you on that. As far as we are concerned, be very clear about the following. Report Crime Anonymous has recently listed some very clear signals in a campaign against trafficking in human beings. Now I don't expect any customer or profiteer who always carries them, but those are signals that you and I, and a reasonable customer, really should be able to see and then act on them. I'll get back to you. Now, from the demand side, there is nothing to fear in the case of human trafficking in the most horrible form, namely trafficking in or using someone's physical integrity, that is, abuse. We are fighting against the freedom of such profiteers. The Schiedam case and the Valkenburg case have already been mentioned. In such cases, however, the customer can now only be prosecuted on the basis of the victim's minority. But what if the victim is 18 or 19 years old? Is the customer king, then, without any responsibility? Does that make the adult victim outlaw? As has already been said, the parties differ from the three proposers on the subject of prostitution; let that be clear. But we find each other in terms of trafficking in human beings and the responsibility of their customers, customers who consciously use a victim of trafficking in human beings or ignore obvious signals. I shall now turn to the part of the answer that is given to the questions raised by the Court in the first instance on the choice of the debt variant. Let me say first of all that the weakest law is the law that does not reach a majority. The applicants listened carefully to the Chamber in the first place. Different parts of the Chamber embrace different parts of the Initiative Act. We're looking for an optimum. That is why we are very grateful to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for its initial suggestion and have decided to opt for a letter of amendment. I'll get back to you in a minute. I would also like to make it clear why we think it is necessary to include the debt variant in addition to the design variant. We want to overcome not only those who deliberately commit the crime we have mentioned in our legislative proposal, but also those who are to blame for it. Spokesmen from different parties asked why we wanted to do so and why we chose that kind of debt. I shall now go into that and respond to the amendment tabled by VVD and D66 which provides for the deletion of the debt variant (34091, No. 17). It's a close listener. Also in our original bill were intent and guilt, and in the design variant it could also be the conditional design. Mr Van Oosten also made comments on this at first reading. In the context of our legislative proposal, conditional design as the lowest form of intent means that it is a perpetrator who has not explicitly set himself the objective of using a victim of trafficking in human beings, but who does not care if it is a victim of this kind; it is the services that can be provided. He knows that there is a significant chance that these services will be provided by a victim of trafficking in human beings and accepts that opportunity. So somewhere between conditional intent and conscious debt, intent turns into debt. The proposers believe that those who do not miss signs of trafficking in human beings should also be punishable. I'll get back to you on those signals. The man who uses the sexual services of a frightened woman in an afterwards garage box does not necessarily need to know that he is a victim of human trafficking, as is the case in the design variant, but should have thought about it and returned to his steps. That's the debt variant. In the design variant, the man in question does not care if he knows that he is a victim of trafficking in human beings; he simply wants to use the services of that woman. By including the serious debt variant, as proposed by GroenLinks in the first term, in the legislative proposal, it can be blameworthy to look away and, under striking circumstances, wrongly assume that it was not a victim of trafficking in human beings, it is enough for the judge to establish that there was a serious suspicion of victimisation. Then a conviction can follow. Of course, this requires proof, but this prevents men using a human trafficking victim from being punished simply by denying that they wanted sex.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u49	Are you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u50	I see there are questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u51	I still have one more question. I hear Mrs Volp saying it's about not missing signals. She mentioned the example of the garage box and the scared woman. But in my view as a former judge, there is simply a conditional nature. So I do not understand why conditional design is not enough and why the D66 and VVD amendments on that point are not supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u52	It is not enough, because "knowing" must be proven, and that is not the case in those circumstances. It listens closely, I agree with Mrs. Swinkels. But she also knows, precisely because of her experience, that evidence of knowing is one of the most difficult factors. For this reason, we have performed the quickscan to see what is now possible with regard to the position of the customer, and that point does not appear to be properly covered. The design variant makes a very high demand for proof of knowing, but I will come back to that later. The conscious guilt, the heaviest form of guilt, states that you should not miss those signals and that you should act accordingly, but know that, for example, if you tell someone in advance that you know that you are going to use a victim of trafficking in human beings, or confessing guilt in a courtroom is necessary to arrive at a conviction for intent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u53	What signals do the proposers think of when clear signals such as a garage box and a scared woman are not clear enough? How clear do you want it to be to be able to speak of intent? I think a case like this has been proven quickly. According to the initiators, what signals are needed to speak of a debt variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u54	I will come back to that, but it is clear that these signals need to be seen in a dialogue. Mrs Swinkels has just mentioned all the reports, and I will come back to them later. The notification obligation is not included in the law, because reporting is not a purpose. It is a question of action. I will come back to the signals, but it is precisely in the design variant that we are talking about 'wantfully and knowingly'. That is why we have chosen the debt variant, precisely because signals such as a basement box, a scared woman and so on, which Mrs Swinkels said should be understood, are not fully offset by the design variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u55	Has Mrs Volp therefore concluded the discussion on guilt and intent? If this is not the case, I would like to hold off on my question, because perhaps this point will be raised later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'm sorry, but I got a little distracted by my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u57	Is Mrs Volp done with her interpretation of the question of what is the difference between guilt and intent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u58	No, not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u59	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u60	I'm really gonna come up with plenty of ammo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u61	I do have a question on that point, so that's convenient. My question is a little along the lines of Mrs Swinkels' question. If I go along with the reasoning of D66 on this point, I can imagine that it is already quite easy to condemn all kinds of people for some kind of crime. I would like to know from the spokesperson of this coalition, Mrs Volp, whether that is indeed the case. If it is so easy to say with these kinds of signals that there is at least a form of intent, should there be a large number of convictions already be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u62	The answer to this is actually quite simple: both forms, both design and the form that we would like to incorporate into this initiative law, are not currently punishable at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u63	I give the opportunity for one more interruption, but I suggest that Mrs Volp finishes her story afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u64	At some point, I'm a little bit off track too. I hear Mr Volp say all kinds of things, but I really agree with the reasoning of my colleague from D66. It's conscious guilt about how you estimate the risk, whether you've misjudged the risks or not. What Mr Volp says is more touching on the concept of 'design'. After all, you see the risk, but you misjudge it, while you don't see the risks in conscious debt. As far as my group is concerned, too, that is the difference. So I think it is important that there should be a clear answer to the question raised by the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u65	I agree with Mrs Helder that these signals are not really to be missed, but if you only choose the design variant, you have to prove that there is a deliberate use of them. That means you need evidence to convict a client and to say: you knew this. We do not want this burden of proof merely in the design variant. In the debt variant, a customer who has not acted can now hide behind the fact that he had not understood it correctly or behind the fact that he would not have used the services if he had known it. We also want to deal with those cases of debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u66	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u67	We are aware that design and guilt in their extreme forms can be close together. Fortunately, this House shares this intention in a broad sense, but it is also behind the variation of guilt in our behaviour that it should be criminalised in such a way that it is unacceptable. We believe that it should not only be punishable if you know that you are using a victim of trafficking in human beings or if you do not care, but also if you look away from obvious signs of trafficking in human beings. After first hearing the Chamber and then having had discussions with the National Rapporteur, we opted for the wording set out in the letter of amendment. Following the earlier amendment by GroenLinks, the phrase "reasonably suspect" in the sentence is replaced by "serious reason to suspect." So it is conscious guilt, the most serious form of guilt. The unsub can only have been aware that this could be a victim of trafficking in human beings. In our proposal we had initially opted for the less heavy variant of debt, namely the reasonable presumption that the original proposal should have been enough for the criminality of a customer. In fact, you're talking about unconscious guilt. It's the furthest from purpose. Conscious guilt is at issue when the prostitute knew that there was a chance that he would be dealing with a human trafficking victim but assumed that this would not be the case. The difference with the ordinary debt, with "reasonably suspecting," is that ordinary negligence or carelessness, with the wording now contained in the letter of amendment, does not lead to criminal liability. We believe that with her amendment Mrs Van Tongeren has made an important contribution to increasing the support for this bill in this Chamber. We thank her for that and thank her very much. So we choose one middle way. We are also aware that this does not go far enough for part of the Chamber, but far too far for another part of the Chamber. We now hope, by a majority, that we will not be able to implement the weakest law that will not become a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u68	You shouldn't be looking at MPs invitingly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u69	I'm looking at you! I'm deliberately trying to avoid the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u70	I suggest that Mrs Volp finish her story first, Mr Van Oosten. That seems so clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u71	I will keep looking at you! I would like to address the questions that several Members have asked again about signals and how they can be recognised. Let me say first of all that it is clearly not the intention of the initiators to create a kind of witch hunt. We work in the Netherlands to tackle forced trafficking in human beings with the so-called barrier model, with as many thresholds as possible being set against exploitation and coercion. In doing so, all stakeholders have a responsibility and the role of the customer cannot be ignored. We do not want to create a legal basis to prosecute or punish someone who has overlooked only vague signals. This is made even clearer by the wording chosen in the letter of amendment. This bill is not aimed at prostitutes but at profiteers. A prostitute of good will does not have to fear anything, but ignoring obvious signs of trafficking in human beings, so profit cannot. How can a prostitute know what is expected of him to escape criminality? We cannot list an exhaustive list of signals. The tricky thing is that we now have no case law on this, because it is not punishable at all. We have given examples of this in the explanatory memorandum and in the note on the report. The list that Meld Crime Anonymous now uses in the campaign against trafficking in human beings is a fairly clear list of signals. The case law created by this initiative proposal will have to play a role in this. I think the evaluation clause is important, the other amendment by GroenLinks. You can imagine that there are questions that were there in the first term too, about what can be expected of a customer, or who, for example, has an obligation to investigate. There are no items here either, because there is no legal basis for them yet. However, you can imagine that a prostitute can begin to distinguish between a visit to the legal sector or the illegal circuit. As far as we are concerned, the prostitute who uses the services of a prostitute in the licensed part of the sector should reasonably assume that there is no victimisation. It may be assumed that a customer who enters an authorised establishment and uses a forced prostitute from which the exploitation situation does not, as it were, impose himself on the customer is apologisable. In such circumstances, if the customer were to be prosecuted, we would not be able to rely on the unwritten penalty exclusion "absence of all guilt." If there is involuntary and trafficking in human beings and the prostitute knows that this is the design variant, then there must be criminality. That means that you are not necessarily free of any responsibility in the licensed sector. Wherever you know about it, the set-up does indeed play. Then it is not a reasonable suspicion or a serious reason to suspect, but knowledge. By far the majority of the prostitutes do not have to fear getting into the sight of justice. With this bill, we want to focus in particular on the unauthorized illegal circuit. So we mean situations where prostitutes get clear signals that something is going on with the prostitute in question. I mentioned earlier the remote industrial area, too low a price, services without protection and not good communication on this. A basement box is something a customer needs to think about. In these situations we consider it necessary that the debt variant can also be used. So again you're talking about the prostitutes, the profiteers, who clearly ignore signals that are obvious to any reasonable thinking person and do not draw the conclusion that something fundamentally wrong is going on. Yeah, there'll always be borders. What is a clear signal and what isn't? There may be uncertainty about that, so we will have to build case law on that. A prostitute who visits a prostitute in the illegal circuit ignores a first signal. If there are other obvious signals to suggest that a customer has a serious reason to suspect, it is ultimately up to the court to judge. The burden of proof before the courts will lie precisely in the nature and quantity of the signals, in the combination. Precisely because design is difficult to prove, we have chosen to add the heavy debt variant in order to put an end to the victimisation of trafficking in human beings. Even in the case of conditional design, the design has yet to be demonstrated. It is precisely in order to demonstrate that the man in question has been aware of the real possibility of victimisation of trafficking in human beings and is increasing this on the market, so accepting the possibility, that we want to add the heavy debt variant alongside the design variant to the bill. Could this also be proved on purpose? Possibly. That is precisely the continuum between the conditional set-up and the heavy debt. However, the question remains whether customers in the design variant, such as D66 and the VVD, can always provide evidence. I have a case. Perhaps I can best explain why we believe, even after discussions with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Rapporteur, that, in addition to the design variant, the heavy debt variant should be included. Some groups have asked questions about these specific signals. I have already mentioned the example of whether only a low price is such a signal. That is of course difficult, because a low price, in the sense of very different from what is usually asked, should be something you think about with every product you purchase. In the first term, the former spokesman of the CDA, Mr Oskam, made a striking comparison with the purchase of a moped, no, of a bike, so I am whispered. For fixed-price products or services, it is of course easier to establish that a price is not right than for products or services with highly changing prices. In the prostitution sector there are no fixed prices, but this does not mean that prices for such services are completely unknown. Go check out sites like hookers.nl. There you can certainly find an indication for a kind of standard price. In the prostitution sector, therefore, it is a question of supply and demand, and a price is then created. Customers can definitely sense whether or not something is right. If the price is extremely low, this could indeed provide an indication of trafficking, especially in combination with a number of other signals mentioned earlier. So it must be clear to the customer that something is wrong. The Christian Union has asked why the proposers did not choose to align their draft law on the protection of minors with the protection that minors have under Article 248b, the ban on juvenile prostitution. In Article 248b, knowing or reasonably suspecting is not an element, but is only about age. We have expressly not chosen to align, because we are talking about another protected interest. Indeed, in the case of juvenile prostitution, our legislative proposal is based on the fact that it is a crime against personal freedom. In this case, therefore, this would be the abuse of a minor in the situation of trafficking in human beings. Those signals are therefore not as obvious or objective as the age you can control. On the other hand, the maximum penalty for the newly introduced trafficking offence in paragraph 2 is therefore more severe, namely six years, than the maximum penalty for juvenile prostitution, which is four years. So we want to point out that we see the abuse of minors in cases of trafficking in human beings as a serious crime. The members of the Christian Union and the PVV have also asked why we only develop exploitation in the case of sexual services in our legislative proposal, and therefore not exploitation in the case of, for example, the sale of organs or forced labour. Let it be said that other forms of human trafficking are also terrible. One cannot say that it is worse than the other, but in other forms of trafficking involving exploitation, taking advantage of that trafficking will be much easier to demonstrate under the current Article 273. In the case of someone who lets a victim of trafficking in human beings work in a greenhouse for 14 hours against a hunger wage and restricts his freedoms, we know the examples of victimisation and exploitation are quickly clear. In other words, there is already a better way to deal with exploitation. We have limited ourselves to the prostitution sector because it is not possible to demonstrate a direct advantage in the transaction between the customer and the victim within the current legislation. This was also highlighted by the quickscan and has also been reason to ask for specific legislation from the field. The PvdA has asked about the differences between the Dutch law and the legislation in the Caribbean Netherlands. Colleague Van Laar first commented on the fact that someone in the Caribbean Netherlands is aged 16 instead of 18 years. In addition, in the European Netherlands, people who abuse their vulnerable position are treated as minors. That also criminalizes the abuse. In the Dutch Code of Criminal Law, the use of force is also considered as an aggravating ground. There are a number of other differences with the BES legislation, but I assume that the Minister will respond to this. Mr Van Laar has asked whether we and the Minister believe that it should be an option to align. We understand what Mr Van Laar saw and we see his problems, but the solution to aligning this legislation is actually outside the direct objective of our initiative law. I expect the Minister to respond to that. Mr President, my colleague, Mr Kooiman, will now proceed with the answer, at least, she may do so; I shall now look at you, and I will discuss, among other things, the willingness to report, the position of the sex workers, victim and alien law, the law on prostitution and the fight against abuses of the sex sector and the legal sector, a zero measurement and the reactions of organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u72	I would like to go back to the difference between guilt and intent, which, as I understand it, was actually the main element of Mrs Volp's contribution. Legally, you can approach that from all sides, but it's ultimately looking for a balance. I have here for me a note from the organisation Swexpertise I pronounce it "sexpertise"; the W is difficult to pronounce and in that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u73	I know who you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u74	...is referred to an investigation by Amnesty International. I know them as an organization that is particularly concerned about the position of people, women. According to the translation of this club Amnesty International says: if you shape it too repressively, you organize that the sex workers themselves are in an unhappy position. That is what my question is about: how do the initiators defend their choice of'suspect', now limited to'serious suspicion', in the knowledge that, in any case, it will lead to a more repressive model than the one that would exist if it were limited to just the set-up variant, which, by the way, is also really my own commitment to the abuser?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u75	I am going to keep Mr Van Oost in suspense for a moment, because my colleague, Mr Kooiman, who is now speaking, is going to discuss this in detail. We fully understand Mr Van Oosten's question. I hope that she will be able to take away his concerns about this with her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mrs Volp made it very clear how complex it is to see if someone is indeed a victim and how complex it is to interpret the signals. What should the customer do if, because it is in the legal circuit, he has no prior suspicion and after the act, so to speak, the lady in question comes with the message that she is a victim? So how's the call going? Then how is this gentleman supposed to report? And how does he avoid, or not, prosecution as a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mrs Dikkers thus points out that it is difficult that there is not a ready-made mould for this. You can't say, "If you do, you're off the hook." It does indeed depend on the coincidence of circumstances. You may have used services and then you think: I shouldn't have done this, this is someone who doesn't do this voluntarily and shouts out that this is a victim of trafficking in human beings. I imagine you'll at least report it. You can also press charges. Calling in is basically anonymous, but after that, you can say you want to help the victim. Doing nothing at all is not an option as far as we are concerned. We understand perfectly well that it is a threshold if you are possibly charged with criminal law. That does not, however, make any difference, and I am going to answer an earlier question put by Mrs Swinkels, that you should then say: if it is no longer reported because of fear of criminal prosecution, then we should not do so. The most important thing is that part of this also has a normalising effect. In addition, we want customers to be aware of their responsibility. If they do not deliberately use their responsibility properly, then they need to be dealt with. If there is confusion or a problem afterwards, there are opportunities to act. Next, the legal basis may also be deleted in a court of law, because it is precisely in cases where there is no action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u78	Yeah, I think I get it, but here's what's important to me. I myself served as interim director at FairWork and heard stories from Nigerian women. They said that they acted like nothing was wrong throughout the entire journey, but that the signals at the end really became clear. It's about that moment that matters to me. I hear Mrs Volp saying that an anonymous report can be made, but if further steps are taken, the threat remains above the market that this customer could be prosecuted. I just want to get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u79	With the current proposal we do not say: if you report, you are off the hook. Not that. It is indeed a confluence of circumstances. If they are obvious and someone finds out too late, so after the act, but does report and act and takes responsibility, then as far as the legal basis as we have now applied in the law is concerned, thanks to GroenLinks' amendment, there is reason to assume that a judge does not punish them. Does that mean that, by definition, when you report, you are no longer responsible for anything? So can you do it and then report it and be done with it? Not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u80	I have another question about the licensing system. In fact, Mrs Volp said: when it comes to the licensing system, the threshold is lower; then it is a question of 'I have just lost the term 'conditional design'. I think that's what it's called. Then it is no longer a matter of serious suspicion or reasonable suspicion. Does that mean that Mrs Volp is referring to the licensing system that is now in the Upper House? Or does she mean the current municipal system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u81	In the Netherlands, we have legalized prostitution in principle. This means that we have agreed on the way in which it should be designed. If a customer uses "clear permits," so know where he is going, for example on the Walls, then his responsibility is lower as far as we are concerned. If he uses a basement box or a remote industrial site and there are other signals, we can imagine a lot of alarm bells going off. But you can also deal with someone on the Walls who sends out very clear signals of victimisation. We know how complicated this is, because that is what it is for operators, for example. It is not the primary purpose to make the customer responsible for this, but a customer who sees it and knows it and who does not act, should not get away without punishment in the licensed sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u82	This is then subject to conditional design, where it must be very explicit. But we know that forced prostitution and victims of human trafficking are also present in the licensing system. I'm looking for that gray zone. Sometimes it may not be very obvious, but there may be victims of trafficking in human beings or forced prostitution. Then how do you figure that out in this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u83	In this bill, we're not going to find out. I believe that, by definition, in criminal proceedings against a client in the authorised sector, the burden of proof is already higher. That's what we're trying to tell you. This is an answer to the concerns that exist among clients of volunteer prostitutes. In principle, they have nothing to fear from this law, which is about dealing with trafficking in human beings. This is without prejudice to our view that they should be subject to criminal prosecution if they see signs and do not act. Again, this too is a continuum. The circumstances are not always clear. So this is something for which we need case law. But if we did not do it and choose not to prosecute at all in the licensed sector, then we will also get away with the design variant. So this is a choice we made. I think this will also be an important judicial test. We have the design variant, which we consider most logical where a customer knowingly uses and does not act. The serious suspicion will lead to less penalties in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u84	I have an interruption following the debate on whether low prices can also be an indication of exploitation. The answer was: yes, that may indeed be an indication. There are cases where there are really very hard clues and because of the fact that the price is so bizarre, you have to realize that you are dealing with trafficking in human beings. Do the initiators agree with me that in these cases a prosecution under Article 273f (1) (6) is appropriate? Then there is a higher level of punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u85	I would like to come back to that in second place. It is indeed a very specific situation if you name one part of the signals separately and say that that part should be enough. I think it's about the converging of signals. Of course, it is also the question of what a ridiculously low price is. So you have to create a definition for that. If Mr Van der Staaij agrees, I would like to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u86	It is fine that we should come back to that. I see very clearly the added value of this legislative proposal in relation to the existing provision, because it is very limited. For example, for the purpose of "taking advantage," there must be a very low price, so that the customer is also responsible for trafficking in human beings. As an added value of this bill, I see that this also refers to other situations. However, I am committing this interruption because I assume that it can never be the result of this bill that would be prosecuted in extreme situations on the basis of a less far-reaching provision threatening with less punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u87	The advantage of filing a bill with the three of you is also that you have some sort of souffle group. The quickscan was very clear about this. It also states that only an extremely low price under the current wording is very difficult to prove. This is indeed a complement to that. I will go into more detail about Mr Van der Staaij's question, but my preliminary answer is that this is precisely why we would like to include the supplementary Article 273g. After all, you can see that's just not a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise you that it is also a great honour for me to be standing here today. It is an honor that I can do this with my colleagues Gert-Jan Segers and Marith Volp. Indeed, we have all worked very passionately and passionately on this bill from a very different angle. I thank my colleagues for that. Today we are taking an important new step in tackling trafficking in human beings. I think that is what all my colleagues in this Chamber want. In my opinion, my colleagues often have their hands in their hair when they see a lot of misery on their many work visits. Mr Segers rightly referred to our joint work visit to Bulgaria and Romania, which also recalled Mr Van Oosten in his first term. We have seen a lot of poignant situations there. Sometimes you're on the sidelines and you're desperate: we have to do something with this. You can see that many women are brought to the Netherlands under false pretences to be forced to prostitute themselves. I think that is what we all want to fight in this Chamber. After the many work visits in the Netherlands and evenings with the police I was tired of watching powerless and I decided to participate in the initiative law that we are discussing today. This law is not the solution to everything, but it is an important step in dealing with trafficking in human beings. I have always found it very strange that everyone, such as the sex workers themselves, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and politics, plays a role in dealing with trafficking in human beings, but the customer himself is not sufficiently or actually not. If we want to tackle trafficking in human beings, everyone plays a role, including the customer. I am consciously talking about dealing with trafficking in human beings, because I first noticed that there is a fear among a number of colleagues that this law will turn against sex workers. I'd like to take this fear away from my colleagues. This law is not about sex workers; it is about trafficking in human beings. I see Mrs Van Tongeren nodding very much. It's true. The law is not directed against sex workers. I might make a little crazy comparison with the truck drivers. In this sector there was exploitation of workers, for example in Romanians, who were put to work here without proper papers under miserable conditions and against a heavy wage. Through action by the sector itself, but also through control by the government, there was a fight against this exploitation. Perhaps we should see this law in that context: a fight against exploitation and trafficking in human beings; for a clean sector and against trafficking in human beings. Mrs Van Tongeren argued in her speech and in the event of interruption that there should be serious work on emancipation among sex workers who consciously choose to do so. I say to Mrs Van Tongeren that this law does not prevent the emancipation of sex workers. We focus on the clients of victims of trafficking in human beings and certainly not on customers of sex workers who have deliberately chosen this profession. We would very much like to comment on the reactions of the organisations. Mr Van Oosten rightly asked about the involvement of organisations such as Soa Aids Nederland and the Rutgers Foundation in the drafting of this initiative law. These organisations have all been able to respond and, of course, every petitioner has spoken with different organisations and also with various sex workers to come up with this bill. We take their concerns, particularly those of the sex workers, about stigmatisation and other effects of this law very seriously. That is why we continue to stress that this law is not there for the clients of sex workers, but for the customers of victims of trafficking in human beings. As a result, Mr Van Oosten also asked for a response to PROUD's statement that Amnesty International would have recently considered that criminalisation of customers could lead to more risk for sex workers to protect their customers from the police, which could in turn have the effect of being vulnerable to violence and exploitation. Amnesty has indeed indicated that criminalising sex buying leads to vulnerable situations for sex workers. However, that is exactly what this bill does not do. We are not criminalising the purchase of sex; we are criminalising the purchase of sex with victims of trafficking in human beings. That is where the big and very important difference lies. Amnesty stresses for a reason that his conclusion is aimed at decriminalising the work of sex workers who provide sexual services with mutual consent. According to Amnesty, forced prostitution and sex with minors against payment must be combated. Amnesty adds that third parties who exploit or abuse such victims still have to be prosecuted. My conclusion, I say to Mr Van Oosten, is that we are therefore acting correctly in the spirit of Amnesty International.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u89	I take good knowledge of those last words. I'm also talking to sex workers. At least, I've spoken to representatives of the PROUD organization. I also visited Amsterdam recently, and I spoke to representatives of that profession there. People are really concerned that it would affect their own profession at the moment when you allow the legislative proposal to exist in the manner proposed by the initiators, including that part, whether or not it is limited to serious suspicion. It is said that the customer does not know what he is up to; the customer may become anxious and does not come anymore, while it is a legal profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u90	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mrs Kooiman says that the proposers have spoken to the people and that they take their concerns to heart. Why, then, did the proposers not do anything about it and do not confine themselves to the design variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u92	I think that the design variant and the debt variant have been dealt with extensively in the contribution of my colleague Volp. Many sex workers refer, for example, to the Swedish model, but I think it is very important to note that this model is not comparable to this law. In the Swedish model, everything is punishable, so buying sex under all circumstances. We do not do that; we make a clear distinction. Someone here, for example, is allowed to take sex from sex workers. Prostitution is legal in that sense. It is very important to mention that the practice has to prove that this law works. We believe in this, of course, but it is good if we involve the sounds of sex workers in the evaluation that Mr Seger has already promised. Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned this. It is therefore very important to prove that this law actually works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u93	Sometimes, sometimes, not always, I get some scary signals from Scandinavian countries, for example, where people have made choices about prostitution policy. Mrs Kooiman is right that it is something different from this bill. Did the proposers take lessons from that? Did they say that these or those aspects do not work, so we have to shape them differently, or in this or that area we are making different choices at all? Or is the comparison limp in every possible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u94	We've certainly looked at different models. I have already indicated that the Swedish model is not working for us. We have also looked at the situation in Finland. A number of organisations have also pointed this out. In Finland the design variant used to exist. That is exactly the proposal tabled by the VVD and D66 as an amendment. Persecution doesn't seem to be possible, so that practice doesn't work. We have therefore chosen a practice with more opportunities to prosecute. In my view, Mrs Volp has outlined this situation sufficiently. I may have to disappoint Mr Van Oosten, but the situation in his amendment has proved ineffective in Finland. That's why we choose something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u95	I would also like to take a trip across the border, following the Norwegian model, which is similar to the proposal before us today. Its scope is the same: the criminalisation of the customer. This has been discussed in the European Parliament. As far as I understand, the PvdA and also GroenLinks voted against the Norwegian model. My question to the initiators is: how is that possible? Aren't we on a slippery slope?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u96	The Norwegian model is similar to the Swedish model, namely criminalising all forms of buying sex. We are not in favour of that. Again, the only model you can possibly compare with our proposal is Finnish. This, at least in the past, affected the model proposed by D66 in his amendment. This has proven ineffective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u97	Then I am afraid of what we can expect from GroenLinks and PvdA in this respect, and also from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u98	This is an initiative bill from the coalition that you see in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u99	And not from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u100	It would therefore be very nice for you to ask these questions to the Members of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u101	Let me be clear: I just heard Mrs Kooiman say that both the Norwegian and Swedish models prohibit the taking of sexual services, so that every prostitute is punishable at all. But then it is right to conclude that this bill is not in any way comparable to both laws in Norway and Sweden, apart from the question whether others in this Chamber might wish to do so under other circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u102	I think Mrs Gesthuizen is quite right about that. It is true that it is about taking sexual services against payment. That's something I'd like to supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u103	A little detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u104	We have looked closely at the countries around us and, on this basis, we have come to the conclusion that the legislative proposal now before us is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u105	One more time. We talked about this a few months ago, and it is also a number of years ago that I have read myself into this dossier. In my view, the Finnish model means that a conviction is only possible when it has been proved intentionally. In practice, this does not prove to be effective enough to condemn those involved, even if they know that they have used the services of someone who is a victim of trafficking in human beings. Those who know about abuse will also go free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u106	I'll make it a little more complicated. The Finnish model used to be the variant that VVD and D66 now propose. Finland has said that it does not work, so we are proposing a different law. That law came into force barely a year ago. So that law is too short to be able to say anything about it. However, I can say that the new law is not similar to the one we are discussing today. Under Finnish law, you are already punishable when you enter a sex worker who is a victim of trafficking in human beings, even though you only see at that point that you are dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings. We don't want that situation either. That is why we have looked at the best solution, and that is the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u107	Proceed, Mrs. Kooiman. No, Mr Van Oosten, you have just interrupted on this point. You understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u108	I understand that, Mr President, but there is always reference to Finland, including on the basis of a question on my part. I have here the document of the organisation concerned, Swexpertise21, in which it is written on this point. Indeed, reference is made to the law adapted in Finland in March 2015. It is also said that there has been a reduction in the security of access to sex workers, while the law, according to aid workers and police, hinders rather than promotes the fight against trafficking in human beings. This is what I'm talking about. How can I trust that the proposed law will not go too far and ultimately lead to criminalisation where the women in question, who earn their money through sex work, end up suffering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u109	I think that is a very real question from Mr Van Oosten. I hope I have been able to convince him somewhat that his amendment does not work if we look at Finland. We believe that the situation in Finland is going too far. We believe that you are only punishable when you have actually taken services from a victim of trafficking in human beings. At the moment when a customer enters a victim of trafficking in human beings and sees that everything is wrong there, after which he decides not to take services, we do not think he is a criminal offence. I think this is a very important difference with Finland. I would like to continue my speech. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned about the willingness to report and asks us to explain again why this bill contributes to this willingness to report. First of all, I want to correct a misunderstanding. Some Members have cited the example of Sweden, but, as I have already said, Sweden's example is not comparable to the legislative proposal we are discussing today. A lot has been said about that, so I'm gonna skip that. Victims can, of course, report to the police. However, they may also choose to do so at Meld Crime Anonymous. This, of course, makes the threshold much lower for the customer. I recently went to work at Meld Crime Anonymous and, with the questions of my colleagues in mind, specifically asked about the willingness to report. I can report on this. There's just another new campaign on how to deal with forced prostitution. That campaign is called "It could be your daughter." I'll show you for a second, because it's important that people know it exists. If they're watching today, they'll know where to go. They can always call 880-7000. In 2014 and 2015, there was a similar campaign which led to almost three reports of forced prostitution per week, an increase of 32%. A total of 297 reports related to the prostitution sector were received. Most of them concerned adult victims. I've made special enquiries to see if any customer reports came in. It was possible to say with certainty that customers also reported. We expect that this bill will also lead to more reports. Customers are likely to think twice now before having sex with a victim. Moreover, it is now better to follow up the notifications, as this bill will allow the Public Prosecutor to do more with them. There is a higher level of protection. So we're gonna have to call it in. I hope I have answered the questions put by Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP. At Meld Crime Anonymous we see that, if there is more fame for the phenomenon of forced prostitution, more people will report. During periods of a campaign, reporting will increase to 32%. We hope to make this law permanent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u110	Are you done with your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u111	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u112	Then I suggest you finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u113	I really have a question at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u114	You can come back to that at the end of Mrs Kooiman's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u115	Then I'll wait and see. Mrs Van Tongeren has asked us how we look at the situation that witnesses from foreigners who are also victims of trafficking cannot be taken away because they can be returned. The national rapporteur has drawn attention to this more often, and rightly so. There is little use of the so-called "striking path" which allows the most vulnerable victims of human trafficking to obtain a (temporary) residence permit without reporting. Unknownness with this arrangement in law, police and assistance seems to be the cause of this. Therefore, a multidisciplinary screening of the victims should be carried out during the reflection period to determine whether medical or mental problems are a serious threat to reporting. In addition, the victim statement should be formally embedded in the existing working methods of the detectives working with victims of trafficking in human beings. The protection of the most vulnerable victims and the detection of traffickers can also be improved by better linking the harrowing path to the standard path. I know that it may be a little out of the order of this law, but we could not fail to answer at least Mrs van Tongeren's questions from GroenLinks. Mr Voordewind asked why the Law on Prostitution provides more clarity. He considers that the taking of evidence stands in the way now that both the obligation to register for prostitutes and the obligation of the customer has been removed from the Wrp. I do not entirely agree with that. The Wrp makes the taking of evidence easier by introducing a licensing obligation. A legal and an illegal sector is therefore being created. A victim of trafficking in human beings will thus be more likely to be found in the non-authorised, i.e. the illegal sector. In fact, this discussion has already taken place during Mrs Volp's speech. The PVV Group expressed its first concern that the judges would all give a different interpretation of the signals of victimisation. From a political point of view, we cannot identify exactly who is or is not a victim. I assume the PVV agrees. It is up to the implementing organisations to provide this information and to submit it to the court for justification. We give just a few non-limitative examples. It may happen that one judge makes a different judgment than the other. That is a question of balancing interests. I do not share the concern that the judiciary is unable to carefully balance this interest. If there is a discussion on the criteria of victimisation between the enforcement organisations, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the judiciary, then there is ultimately the Supreme Court to clarify this. This is how our rule of law works, and that is how it has always worked. As a politician, we should not interfere in this, but I believe that Mrs Helder agrees with me. I agree with D66 that there must be careful evidence and proper detection. For about ten years, victims of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings have been a priority in the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the coming years, the approach to trafficking in human beings will also remain high on the agenda. The D.A. has appointed a national prosecutor for trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings for a reason. But each parish must also have one contact prosecutor for trafficking in human beings. It is possible that the Minister will go into more detail, as it mainly affects his portfolio. I will move on to the amendment tabled by former MP Oskam on the increase in sentence. That is, of course, the Van Toorenburg amendment, because she has accepted the treatment of her former colleague. We understand the CDA's desire to tackle trafficking in human beings hard. Of course, you do this through the criminal route and per situation you will have to look at the most appropriate punishment. As mentioned above, there is a connection to similar offences which have the same protected interest. The criminality of the customer's behaviour is not, as in the case of trafficking in human beings, the exploitation itself but the use of an exploitation situation. It is not about the persecution of the traffickers themselves, but about the prosecution of the customer. Moreover, there is no need for coercion, either in the case of adults or in the case of minors, as is the case in the case of trafficking in human beings under Article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law. The fact that a customer has used the services of a victim of trafficking in human beings and this customer knew or might have known is in principle sufficient to prosecute. The fact that there is no question of the bare crime of trafficking in human beings and therefore does not mean that the penalty is lower than if it were. I hope I have also answered the questions of the CDA, the SP and the SGP. Mr Van der Staaij also expressed his concern that of the currently elected measure of punishment, the idea seems to be that it is actually not that bad. I would like to say that this is of course not the case, otherwise we would not have been here. The fraction of D66 has asked for a zero reading. The proposers are prepared to do so, I do so, to ask the Minister to instruct the WODC to conduct a zero measurement similar to that carried out following the introduction of the Wrp in 2011. We share the view of Mr van Oosten of the VVD Group that there should be full attention to prevention and awareness through campaigns, for example. Mr Van Oosten has rightly called for specific attention to be paid to this issue by the Minister. We also mentioned this in the note on the report, which states that information campaigns should be used to raise awareness among potential customers of the signs of forced prostitution. Mr. Chairman. If there are no more questions, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u116	I think you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u117	I actually wanted to start with my final word, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u118	One brief remark, Mrs Swinkels, and very briefly, because the Minister also has to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u119	This bill is about combating trafficking in human beings. That has been said here on a regular basis, but I still have to ask how the criminalisation of the customer can lead to more reports, since the most important reporter is then himself a suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u120	In the past, more campaigns, for example by Meld Crime Anonymous, have led to an increase in reporting readiness. This bill is not just about criminalising, because it is not our goal at all that it leads to a witch hunt for customers. The aim is to make the customer more aware that he should not enter such situations. I'm sure this law will help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u121	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u122	Yes, Mr. Chairman. If there are no more questions, the authors would like to thank the Chamber warmly for its listening ear and, of course, for the critical questions. I shall then give the floor to the Minister, although you should do so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u123	Yes. Thank you, Mrs. Kooiman. The Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, also to the initiators for the friendly manner in which I was announced. I'll be right back with other compliments to the initiators. Today's plenary debate is on the subject of Mrs Segers, Mr Volp and Mr Kooiman's own-initiative proposal, which is part of the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. The initiative proposal criminalises the customer using services provided by a prostitute who is a victim of trafficking in human beings. To this end, the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Law for the BES Islands are amended. Let me begin by echoing the compliments also expressed by the spokesmen to the initiators and to the initiative they have taken. From my own experience, I know that you have to keep up the enthusiasm with which you start an initiative legislative proposal, even when there are many questions asked and the opinions within the Council of State, the Court of Justice and other entities. I can clearly tell from the treatment here that the enthusiasm, the involvement, but also the enthusiasm of the initiators are still palpable. That is understandable, because the subject is important. Questions were also asked to the government in the first term. I will deal with them one by one at the end, but before I do so, I would first like to put forward, on behalf of the cabinet, the position on the legislative initiative proposal. Trafficking in human beings goes hand in hand with exploitation and there is no doubt, even in the cabinet, that trafficking in human beings is a serious violation of fundamental human rights. In many cases, this is a very poignant crime. The victims are marked for life. It is therefore understandable that the initiators, as well as the government, are prepared to do everything we can to deal effectively with trafficking in human beings. Various studies, including the recent zero measurement in the 2015 Prostitution Act, confirm that the prostitution sector is vulnerable to abuses. The government has therefore identified the fight against trafficking in human beings and the related prostitution as one of its priorities in the government agreement. The fight against trafficking in human beings takes place by creating as many barriers as possible, intensive detection and a tough approach to the perpetrators. Mr Segers also mentioned it: the well-known barrier model. So far, the role of the client of exploited prostitutes has been somewhat under-exposed in dealing with trafficking in human beings. Although this has also been the subject of an investigation, there are examples of customers who contribute to the arrest of human traffickers and the detection of abuses, whether or not reporting abuses anonymously, on the other hand, clients of forced prostitutes, of course, also, in some sense, contribute to the maintenance of the sexual exploitation network. The initiative proposal makes an important contribution to the fight against forced prostitution. They focus in particular on the demand side, on the role of the customer in dealing with trafficking in human beings. The objectives of the legislative proposal are in line with the objectives of government policy to combat trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. The criminalisation of the customer in this particular case increases the possibilities of detection and prosecution in exploitation situations. A separate criminalisation of the customer in the Criminal Code also has a normative effect. Customers are addressed to their responsibility. They are encouraged to refrain from using the services of a forced prostitute and, in a sense, they could also find an encouragement in the legislative proposal to mention it actively, whether anonymous or not, when faced with abuses. I note that there is a great deal of support for the bill. In their comments, the initiators pointed out that several advisers, including the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, responded positively to the bill. Penalty is also part of the call in several international instruments such as the 2011 EU Human Trafficking Directive to criminalise persons using services provided by victims of trafficking in human beings. But at the same time there was also criticism. Although the Advisory Section of the Council of State and the Council of Ministers supports the objectives underlying the legislative proposal, they have also raised legal objections as to the scope of the proposed penal provisions. The bill criminalises the customer who knows or reasonably suspects that a prostitute is a victim of trafficking in human beings and yet uses the services of that prostitute), a criminal offence. It is then a penalty clause with the so-called set-up variant, the element you know, and debt variant, the element you should reasonably suspect. According to the Department and the Board, the risk of criminal liability of the customer is not sufficiently foreseeable, because it is difficult to determine when signals of trafficking in human beings are so clear and known to the customer that he should reasonably suspect that he is dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings. According to the council, the penalty provision with a debt variant does not provide sufficient guidance for legal practice. The department and the board have therefore advised that the debt variant be removed from the sentence. The industry itself, through the interest association of sex workers PROUD and the Association of Operators Relax Companies (VER), and also the Association for Woman and Law - Clara Wichman, the foundation Soa Aids Nederland and Rutgers have ruled against criminalisation of the customer and the variant of the penalty provision in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u125	Before you continue, I would like to know how much longer you think you need. I understand you're still answering 37 questions. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u126	That will be the case every now and then, Mr President. A lot of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u127	However, it is customary for the initiators to speak more than the advisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u128	I understand that, but the initiators are also entitled to a cabinet position...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u129	Of course. That can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u130	... and in this case, with the amount of amendments and the debate, that is a careful matter. I'll be in there soon, Mr. Chairman. You know me, I'd almost like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u131	That's why!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u132	Nevertheless, the Cabinet appreciates the initiative proposal, but at the same time the Cabinet shares the concerns about the wide criminal liability of the customer and in particular the variant of the debt. In the cabinet's view, a penalty clause with a set-up to broaden the criminal protection of forced prostitutes could be sufficient. Although the community criminal law has several criminal offences in which behaviours in both a set-up and a debt variant are threatened with punishment, the debt variant in the somewhat opaque context of the prostitution sector, in the cabinet's view, creates too much legal uncertainty. On the basis of a sentence based solely on a design variant, the customer is also punishable if he has a conditional intent on the victimisation of trafficking in human beings, i.e. if he is aware that he is dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings and accepts the significant opportunity to do so. The scope of the criminal liability of the customer, given the debate that has also just been held with the initiators, also has the attention of the Chamber. There is an amendment tabled by the groups of VVD and D66, the amendment to item No. 17, which deletes the debt variant. In addition, an amendment was recently tabled by GroenLinks in respect of item No. 13, which was taken over by the initiators by third letter of amendment. It takes some sort of intermediate position. It lays down the lower limit for the criminal liability of the customer in the event of a deliberate fault, having the serious reason to suspect that there is such a serious situation. This means that a customer is punishable if there is no choice but to be aware of the fact that he was dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings. This is the most serious form of debt, which is close to parole. The difference between conscious guilt, having a serious reason to suspect, and conditional intent, is that acceptance by the customer of the significant risk of victimisation does not have to be proven. A penalty clause with a form of conscious guilt has the advantage of raising the limit for criminal liability in relation to the legislative proposal. This makes the risk of criminal liability more foreseeable for the customer. This would therefore respond to the concerns expressed by the industry. However, as far as the cabinet is concerned, the lower limit of criminal liability should preferably be placed on the deliberate action of the customer, knowingly accepting the possibility of a person being a victim of trafficking in human beings. The cabinet therefore advises positively on the amendment to item No. 17. The maintenance of the debt variant in the third letter of amendment does not have the preference of the cabinet, partly in connection with the observation made by the Advisory Section of the Council of State and the Council for the case-law, but the cabinet does give the opinion on both amendments to the Chamber. I shall now turn to the questions that have been put to me in the first place, knowing that not all the questioners from that time are still able to take part in the debate. I have to say that this debate was still so fresh in my memory that I kept thinking about it in the course of the last few days: why, there has been another spokesperson for a long time? Mr Oskam and Mrs Berndsen, who have had this debate, are no longer among us; of course, I only mean that they are no longer members of the House of Representatives. It is good to see that very, very adequate replacement has been found for both spokesmen. I will answer the questions raised on the basis of four issues: the initiative legislative proposal itself, the detection, prosecution and trial of trafficking in human beings, the position of sex workers and other issues. I would also like to comment on the amendment to item No. 14, tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, after the first deadline. The amendment in part No. 11 is about raising the penalty limit. Mr Oskam has tabled this amendment and it has been accepted by Mrs Van Toorenburg. I particularly agree with the principle of the amendment that criminal conduct deserves a firm and appropriate punishment, as Mrs Kooiman has already said. A criminal threat reflects the seriousness of the fact. Both the maximum prison sentence and the maximum level of the fine would be increased as a result of the amendment. I note that the penalty limits in the amendment differ from the legal penalty limits for similar offences as the temptation of a minor and paid sex with a minor in which the initiators have sought membership. Mrs Kooiman pointed that out in her first term. In view of the fact that the comparison, and thus a problem arises as to the relationship between the various criminal ceilings, the cabinet is not enthusiastic about this amendment and would therefore advise against it. The amendment in part No. 14 comes from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and concerns an evaluation clause. Mrs Berndsen asked at the time whether a zero measurement could be made and the GroenLinks Group subsequently tabled an amendment to add an evaluation clause to the legislative proposal. I note that a legal assessment clause is not necessarily necessary. In fact, I can imagine that it would be useful for a zero measurement to be carried out after the entry into force and for the number of convictions to be monitored in the following years. In principle, I believe that the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings will also provide for this, because it fits within the scope of the work of the National Rapporteur. In any case, I think it is desirable that the effectiveness of the law should be followed, and I am prepared to do so, in the form of an evaluation, whether or not through the National Rapporteur. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this amendment is not necessary, but I would like to leave it to the Chamber. I now come to the questions. Mr Van Laar asked about the customer's responsibility and conviction under the new Article 273g. I would like to refer to the excellent justification that Mr Segers has already given on this point. I agree with that, particularly in the light of your request to be brief, Mr President. Mr Van Oosten asked whether I share the view of the initiators that the legislative proposal will have minor financial implications. The answer to this question is yes, given also the Council's response to the case law and the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, with regard to the police, it remains to be seen whether the financial consequences will be small. That is why an impact analysis will be carried out there, to make it clear what it would mean there. In principle, all effects within existing budgets must be taken into account. Mr Oskam asked whether the success of this bill was related to the law on prostitution and the fight against sexual abuse (Wrp), which lies in the Upper Chamber. I think it is very important that both this bill and the Wrp can guarantee the effective approach to trafficking in human beings. As far as I am concerned, both legislative proposals must be discussed as a matter of urgency, including in the First Chamber, so that we can finally take the right steps as soon as possible, which are also decided in the Wrp. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how I will shape the intensification of the detection and prosecution of trafficking in human beings in practice. As I said in my introduction, trafficking in human beings is a priority of both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police and is provided for by specialised trafficking teams. I was right to answer Mr Van der Staaij's question. The approach to trafficking in human beings is secured through the teams of trafficking in human beings within police units and through the Expertise Centre Aliens Surveillance, Identification and Trafficking, the EVIM, which plays a coordinating role. If this bill is made law, it will, of course, be given extra attention and an extra boost. After all, an additional possibility for prosecuting the customer also calls for an introduction to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police and for their attention to be paid to it. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Van Oosten asked about the success of the campaigns of Meld Crime Anonymous. Have they led to an increase in the number of reports of trafficking in human beings? I am glad that they have asked that question, because that gives me the opportunity to mention the figures. The Schijn Deception campaign from 2012 and 2013 led to an increase of 121% in the number of notifications compared to the previous period. For this reason, the campaign has been extended and extended to prostitutes and healthcare staff. This campaign, called Forced Prostitution, ran from April 2014 until April 2015. Even then, the number of reports increased by 34%. We therefore continued this campaign last February and it will end at the end of July. I will inform the House of the results in the autumn. Its costs are foreseen in the budget. Mrs Berndsen asked for a zero measurement of the percentage of customer notifications. When customers make notifications, they generally do so via Report Crime Anonymous. It goes without saying that there is no way to determine who it is and what its capacity is. I think it is very important that these reports keep coming. From the comments on sites such as hookers.nl and other sites, which are of course known to the investigation services, you may be able to deduce that they are customers, but you cannot release scientific research on them either. I note that in a number of cases customers are already reporting from their involvement at this point and that it is very important that these notifications can be made anonymously via Report Crime Anonymous. During the previous period, Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij asked the initiators whether a low price could be an indicator of trafficking in human beings. You can, but of course you don't have to. The current designation for the Public Prosecutor's Office has recently been modified and shortened. This means that the list of all indicators, the price of which is only one, has been moved to an internal manual of the Public Prosecutor's Office and is still being used. Mr Oskam also asked whether the language barrier could be an indicator: yes, but that is not necessary. But one thing is certain: a language barrier, the lack of knowledge of the Dutch or English language, can, of course, give the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office grounds for further investigation. I'm getting to the point of the low penalties. Mrs Helder and Mr Van Laar referred to the penalties imposed by the research carried out, inter alia, by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the national rapporteur for this, because it gives us the opportunity to discuss it with each other. Ms Helder and Mr Van der Laar indicated that there was initially an increase in the average penalty imposed for trafficking in human beings until 2014, but that the average sentence imposed had fallen since 2014. Mrs Helder also gave a number of examples of this and we had an exchange of views on this. There could be a lot of explanations for that. It may have to do with the heaviness of a case, but of course we all know that it is extremely complex evidence associated with trafficking in human beings. The intention, as I indicated in the general consultation on Human Trafficking on 26 April last, is that I will discuss this development with all those involved and I will report the results of that discussion to the Chamber when the figures of the National Rapporteur for 2015 are available. I personally think it is very important to continue to bring this point to the attention of the Public Prosecutor, who is responsible for the penalty requirement, but certainly also to the attention of the judiciary. The National Rapporteur also has an important role to play in this. It has been actively engaged in this task in recent years and will undoubtedly continue to do so. In doing so, I also answered Mrs Helder's question about how the public prosecutor and the case law can be understood. So both I and the national rapporteur bring this to the fore. I refer, for example, to the customer's report, in which the case law has been recommended to aim for greater uniformity in the motivating of the sex paid, in this particular case for minors. Mrs Helder asked for a cabinet response to the suggestion for minimum penalties. She said she suspected she already knew the answer. I can confirm that this is right: she knows the answer. Mrs Van Tongeren asked a question about the position of prostitutes. What are we doing to provide services in all those areas that we have been talking about a number of times in recent years, such as insurance, banking facilities, mortgages and access to all kinds of services? An important bottleneck was also always the registration at the Chamber of Commerce. Much has changed, partly thanks to Mayor Van der Laan and the municipality of Amsterdam, who already in 2015 picked up this gauntlet and had discussions with the Dutch Association of Banks, the Association of Insurance Companies and a number of other parties. I have very recently discussed this with Mayor Van der Laan. We have agreed that we will convene a meeting to take stock of what else needs to be done. We know, for example, that the problem with Trade Register has been solved. We also know that the Dutch Banking Association has been active in this area. At present, there are no insurmountable problems in this respect. We are going to look at where these problems still exist and how we can solve them. We will do this together with PROUD and the municipality of Amsterdam. I am prepared to discuss with PROUD whether we can conduct a survey of sex workers in one way or another to see exactly what the problem is. PROUD could organise the survey itself, but we could do it and we could spend it. It is fair to say that we all know the story, but that the examples we have asked for on many occasions are still lacking. We have asked where the problems are and whether it can be shown that these problems exist, but in that area it remains fairly quiet. Before we continue to worry about this, I would like to know exactly where we stand. That's what we're gonna find out. I'll do that with Mayor Van der Laan. I am very much looking forward to taking this issue up with him, as he has been involved in this matter for a long time as a driver. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked if there was any knowledge of a link between the reduction in the number of authorised workplaces and the increase in the number of abuses. There's no evidence of such a causal link. We can only guess about that. I don't think that's wise. One thing is certain: the provision of paid sex services seems to shift mainly to the Internet and that means that supervision is at least more difficult. None of us can deny that. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind asked whether it would be an idea not only to raise the age of prostitutes to 21 years as foreseen in the Wrp, but also to raise the age of prostitutes. The well-known research evidence shows that there are few customers in the under-21 age group. In the research of GGD Amsterdam in 2014, about 1,000 customers were interviewed. It appeared that of those 1,000 customers, 0.4% were under 18 years of age and 8.8% were between 18 and 24 years of age. In this respect, I do not see an urgent need for further action. If, according to the law, you are sexually mature at the age of 16, you should also be able to opt for the service of a legal prostitute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u133	A brief question, Mrs. Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u134	It just has to do with the Minister wanting to do it so quickly and I think I missed it. Do I understand correctly that the Minister is going to investigate, together with Mayor Van der Laan, what are the barriers that voluntary sex workers meet at UWV, the banks and more of that kind of government agencies and private agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u135	Yes. Mr Van Laar asked what I thought of the operation of Article 248b of the Code of Criminal Law. He also asked the initiators that question. I can answer that Article 248b is also about a sexual assault with a minor. For the offence, it does not matter whether there was coercion on the part of the offender or whether there was voluntary action on the part of the minor. Also, it doesn't matter if the unsub thought the minor might already be an adult. The sex title contains sufficient protection in this respect for minors against paid sex. Mrs Volp has also made a number of comments on this subject, and I am happy to endorse them. Mr Van Laar also asked about the differences in criminalisation of trafficking in human beings between the European and Caribbean Netherlands. I recently brought Mr Van Laar's proposal to the attention of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the BES Islands. The Public Prosecutor's Office, which is good news for the PvdA Group, sees as an advantage of the similar provisions that Dutch case law would also apply. Whether it is desirable to amend the law and, if so, on what time period, is the subject of further consultation with public bodies. I expect to be able to report this to your Chamber in the course of the year. In her contribution, Mrs Kooiman sent me another question on the right of residence for victims of trafficking in human beings during the criminal investigation. Victims who report or otherwise cooperate in the investigation of investigations or prosecutions may lawfully reside in the Netherlands during the investigation. That is the so-called B8 regulation. The same applies to witnesses who report and whose stay in the Netherlands is in the interest of the investigation of investigations and prosecutions. Victims do not need to report human trafficking immediately. In the case of a small indication of trafficking in human beings, the police should offer the period of reflection to a suspected victim of trafficking in human beings. During the reflection period, the person concerned will have time to recuperate and to carefully consider the decision to report or otherwise cooperate in the investigation. We have had many exchanges of views with your Chamber on this matter. During this period of reflection, the IND suspends the removal from the Netherlands and therefore the suspected victim has a legitimate residence in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the answer to all the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you. This also brings us to the end of the first term of office of the initiators. Before we move on to the second term, we're going to suspend briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u137	We've arrived at the second term. Speaking time is exactly three minutes per group, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll skip all the heartfelt thanks. I'll read my motion first and then I'll have a piece of text. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current prostitution policy could give greater attention to helping and strengthening the social position of sex workers;]] [[calls on the Government to take initiatives to strengthen the social position of sex workers, to intensify assistance to sex workers, to examine the need to strengthen the legal status of sex workers and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34091-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u139	I have a second service announcement. The content of one of my two amendments was accepted by the authors with a letter of amendment, for which I am grateful. So I can withdraw that amendment. That's what I have to tell the microphone, I understand. The central question is how to determine the difference between a person who is a customer with a sex worker...................................................................................................................................................................................... We want real action to be taken on this. The Minister's answers to questions about this gave me a little more courage and hope. In the Chamber there is a gradual difference on these points. The position of GroenLinks is clearly marked. The Minister has recently explained it most clearly, so I will certainly skip that part of my text. GroenLinks also considers the social status of sex workers very important. We welcome some of the improvements made by the Minister, Mr Van der Laan. We would like it to be regulated in this way throughout the Netherlands, so that these obstacles are removed. That is why my name is also under the motion that Mrs Swinkels is about to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u140	How many motions do you have left, Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u141	I don't have any more motions of my own. I read my motion first. I am referring to a motion which will be tabled shortly. Our other amendment, the one on evaluation, is important to us. That is why it was good to hear that the Minister also left the verdict to the Chamber. We must keep our finger on the pulse or this amendment will do what we want. This was my second-term contribution, because I see I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you. You have withdrawn an amendment. Do you know what number that was?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u143	I hope that someone will quickly souffle me what the number of this amendment was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u144	If you know, you can say it in the microphone later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u145	I don't know by heart, but I just heard that the no. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u146	The Van Tongeren amendment (Doc. 13) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors for answering all the questions and the time they have spent presenting this bill properly and discussing it with us. Mr President, I hope that I shall be able to say to you as no other, that I also find the emotionally somewhat a tribute to Marleen de Pater, who argued for this years ago. I'm afraid she's really not with us anymore. She died way too early. She once put it on the agenda and I think it has been taken very adequately. It's nice that we can share that here. There are more beautiful things about this bill. I understood the debate that has just been held about intent and guilt. Now let me be such a special lawyer who will be absolutely happy if she just sees that list of the purpose.I have taken it up for a while.The necessity consciousness, the probability consciousness, conditional intent and the conscious guilt. It might be good to point out here that the core is primarily in the intention of the perpetrator. Lawyers have of course been fighting each other out of this for decades, but quite simply it's about the question: would you have done it if you had really known? Whoever deliberately says yes, whatever. Whoever's guilty thinks, "Probably not." It's a fair question whether you should withdraw the person who thinks he might not have done it if he really knew. I'd like to say yes, but let it be judged by a judge. Take the opportunity to intervene when he sees that someone has cooperated in something poignant, not too quickly away from the judge. So I understand why the amendment adopted by the initiators has been a small step down, but I still want that guilt to remain in place. Put it up to the judge. The judge can judge it. He can weigh up because that is always about design and guilt against each other and assess the extent of the unsub's knowledge and attitude. Put that in front of a judge. Finally, I would like to comment on the measure of punishment. Because the initiators so rightly state that this bill is about combating trafficking in human beings, I think it is more appropriate to include the punishment in it. The initiators themselves say that the customer maintains it. It is precisely for this reason that I think it is important that we draw the penalty to the level appropriate to trafficking in human beings rather than to the temptation side. The judge must have that space. Someone is maintaining human trafficking. Of course, we all know that judges do not impose the maximum penalty. Unfortunately, it has gone much further, but let us give the judges that room in the most poignant cases. That's what the CDA wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mrs Van Toorenburg, you are right about Mrs Marleen de Pater.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators for the passionate speech and, above all, for the unity they have found with each other to work for this. It is good to see that this broad support is there. I had asked another question about the signal function of facilitating work, such as housing or participation in abortion or breast enhancement in situations of compulsion. That's where we might be able to bring out that signal function. I would like an answer to that. I would like to thank the initiators for extending this proposal. They not only talk about prostitutes and prostitutes, but also about victims of trafficking in human beings, as we have seen in the cases in Valkenburg and Schiedam. It is clear that my group would have liked the'reasonable suspicion' to remain in the legislative proposal, but we naturally accept that it has now become'serious suspicion'. It is important that a major step is now taken in the fight against trafficking in human beings. My group is very pleased with that. Let me conclude with a quote that might fit well in the context of identifying victims of trafficking in human beings. The well-known philosopher-theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer said: "Shut up when faced with evil is also evil in himself." That is why I hope that many people who encounter evil will signal this and that together we will fight the traffickers in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr. Chairman. I said it in the first term: the initiativer's bill sounds sympathetic. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. However, my group also said in the first term that it goes too far to charge customers for the fact that sometimes they don't recognize or recognise vague signals. My group is still out of line with the type of debt. Nevertheless, I have ended the first deadline by saying that it is up to the initiators to convince my group with their first-term response. All the examples I have been presented with and in all the interruptions that have been committed still dealt with the design variant: a customer who goes to a garage box or cellar box for sex, a customer who sees two wardrobes that guard or hold the girl, or a girl who clearly has bruises or is very timid. All of this falls under the heading of "design," whether or not conditional, but rather "design." That goes beyond signals, beyond a reasonable suspicion of victimisation. Then came the amendment by GroenLinks, which was accepted by the initiators. That amendment ensures that a reasonable presumption is no longer sufficient, but that the customer must be seriously suspected, so that the customer consciously takes the risk that the prostitute is a victim of trafficking in human beings. The customer is aware of the danger, but misassess the risk. This is just another matter than conditional design, which is that the customer is indifferent to the result. As far as my group is concerned, there is also the lower limit. The amendment tabled by Mr Van Tongeren van GroenLinks is therefore certainly sympathetic, but best for our group for the second time. We are still in favour of the design variant. That is not because we do not want to prevent the victims of trafficking in human beings or that we do not want to protect them, quite the contrary. However, we have also taken into account the fact that experts in this area have indicated that the bill is pulling the product, i.e. paid sex, into the criminal circuit, thereby threatening legal prostitution as we know it here, into illegality. They want to prevent that, and I understand that. As far as they want to go, namely rejecting the whole bill, my group does not go that far. We cannot be blind to the fact that in practice there is a big difference between sex for payment in a clandestine place with a mouthy lady and sex in a basement box with a girl showing signs of victimisation. The design variant, the customer need to know that sex is committed to a victim of trafficking in human beings, is therefore the right way to go. If the amendment to that effect, the amendment tabled by former Member of Parliament Berndsen and now by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Swinkels, is adopted, then we are moving in the right direction as far as my group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u151	We had a discussion about the licensing system. The initiators have said that this is true, as Mrs Helder also wants. Is this not an important move towards its group, because the legislative proposal will largely apply to the licensing system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u152	No, because I wouldn't have provided the input I just provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u153	Madam President. I would like to thank the initiators for their clear and convincing response. I think that the added value of this bill has been clearly highlighted and that it is a modest contribution to the legislation on combating trafficking in human beings, but a significant one, precisely because we are now dealing with a gap in the law to deal with customers who actually abuse a prostitute who is being exploited. You may disagree, but we have to keep the discussion fair. You may object to the Swedish or Norwegian model. That model also welcomes the SGP in itself; indeed it goes much further. But those objections are not raised in this bill. After all, this clearly does not take into account the fact that customers are simply criminalising them. It is a very specific category. I think that sometimes things get mixed up in nonsense when criticism of the Swedish or Norwegian model is also directed at this bill. Also in the explanatory memorandum, on page 7, it is stated that in obvious cases of exploitation under Article 273f (1) (6) could be prosecuted. There was another debate on this with Mrs Volp. I'm just trying to clarify what I was talking about. In those indeed very limited and exceptional cases where that article, on an approach based on trafficking in human beings, could apply, i.e. in an obvious situation of exploitation, prosecution under that article would be reasonable, because that article simply has a higher level of punishment than this bill. I hope the initiators agree with me. I would regret it, and I assume the initiators too, if, in that case, the easier article were to be taken out of this bill. That is the question I would like to put to them. Finally, there has been a middle position in relation to whether you should limit it to intent or whether that slight guilt can cause persecution. The initiators accepted the amendment by GroenLinks and thus took an intermediate position. The SGP is and was in favour of the original proposal, but it can justify the consideration of the initiators, who want to take a step forward and advocate this variant if it is at present the most feasible. All in all, we will wholeheartedly support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u154	Madam President. I thank the initiators for their answers, but I still have a question. Is this going to help in the fight against trafficking in human beings? Criminalisation has not led to any reduction in trafficking in human beings anywhere in Europe. And if you're gonna do it anyway, you're gonna have to choose the setup variant, so says D66. I think the discussion has made that very clear. Only make the person who knowingly uses a forced prostitute a criminal offence. For D66 is also important: don't focus on the customer, because that customer is your partner in the fight against trafficking in human beings. Focus on the international organisations of human traffickers. Put people and resources on that. The customer's just a partner. The customer is involved, also in the vision of the initiators, and this involvement should lead to notifications. D66 dares to doubt that a customer will report if he risks criminality. I notice that I forgot my motion while I'm getting to it. I'm gonna get the motion, or rather, my co-subscriber's handing in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u155	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u156	However, I would like to conclude with an appeal which is in line with the Minister's commitment to investigate the social situation of those who do do so voluntarily. That is a large group, as demonstrated by conversations I have had with PROUD and other organisations. These people are having trouble registering at the Chamber of Commerce. They also have problems with the IRS and the UWV. I welcome the Minister's commitment to investigate this, but I am particularly concerned about the question of when the Minister will do so. I want to make sure that this is done for the treatment of the law regulation prostitution and combating abuses sex industry in this Chamber. That is why I am tabling the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still a social stigma to the occupation of sex work;]] [[Considering that the 2014 study of the Region Plan "Sexworkers at the Speaking Party" shows that sex workers in the legal sector are still experiencing difficulties in dealing with various bodies such as the Social Service, the UWV, the Tax Administration and banks;]] [[noting that the same study carried out by the Region Plan shows that this situation has not improved since 2006;]] [[Whereas the social position of sex workers can be enhanced by easy access to (public) bodies;]] [[calls on the Government to make an active effort to improve the handling of legal-sector sex workers and to inform the Chamber of this approach to the plenary handling of the law on prostitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been put forward by Mr Swinkels and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34091-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u157	I have a quick question. I listened carefully to the motion, but I also listened to the question that Mrs Swinkels just asked the Minister about the investigation he is doing together with Mayor Van der Laan. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u158	The difference is that I want to make sure that this investigation takes place and the results come to the Chamber before we talk about the law on prostitution and the fight against sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u159	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. Following on from my initial contribution, I would like to express my appreciation once again for the three colleagues. They themselves took it back that we travelled to Romania and Bulgaria with a large number of colleagues and saw very bad things there. I did start that myself in my first term. I am absolutely convinced that this journey has inspired my colleagues to work with soul and bliss for this bill. We had a long exchange of views on this subject. I think that the whole Chamber is working together for a large part in this. However, as far as my group is concerned, I am drawing a line on the set-up side, following, for example, the Council of State. I say "intention" and I mean that including the conditional set-up. We must now look for a balance, because we are also talking about a legal profession. Sex workers should have the opportunity to exercise their profession if they do so voluntarily. I would be very sorry if we were to take too fast a step which could lead to your sex workers taking the opportunity to exercise their profession properly, because they fear that this would cause them to lose customers. In other words, tackle trafficking in human beings! That is why I tabled an amendment with Mrs Swinkels. That is also possible, thanks to the law of the initiators. But we must now draw the line when it comes to design, including the conditional design.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u160	Mr Van Oosten is doing something very crazy. He says that there is a difference between the group of people who would deliberately use a victim of trafficking in human beings and the group of people who do not purposely do so, whereas these are not two different groups of victims. In both cases, these are victims of trafficking in human beings. So I do not understand why Mr Van Oosten is so concerned about a possible problem for prostitutes that would arise at the time when you would criminalize the debt variant of this bill, which would certainly not exist when it comes to the design variant. It is the same groups of people, namely the prostitutes on the one hand, who should in principle have nothing to fear and on the other hand the victims of trafficking in human beings, who we want to protect by not making a difference between those who do it intentionally and those who clearly consciously use these services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u161	I'll be brief. I made it very clear in the first term what that difference is. This is a bit of a rerun of moves. In particular, my fear is that when it is including the suspicion, the blame, you criminalize the customer too easily and too quickly. He can only be accused of suspecting and that can make customers afraid to use a legal profession. I also have an eye for this, in line with various organisations that have also informed the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u162	Finally, Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u163	It continues to amaze me, all the more so because we know more than enough other crimes in which this distinction between intent and guilt is indeed important for a judge to consider. I really do not understand why a liberal party such as the VVD and therefore also D66 take something as fundamental as the freedom of people not sufficiently seriously to say: we leave it up to a judge to judge. In many cases, Mr Van Oosten takes that opportunity away from the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u164	I note that Mrs Gesthuizen and I disagree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u165	Let me try another bow. I note that Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Swinkels explicitly say that not only the deliberate intent should be punishable, but also the conditional intent. Why does the VVD think that it is conditional enough to make a criminal offence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u166	Because I think it is perfectly normal that if you accept the significant chance that there may be a victimisation of trafficking in human beings in this country, and I also appreciate that in my fellow Members' proposal that you can deal with and criminalise these men or women.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u167	But then you're moving from the deliberate intent to the significant opportunity, aren't you? Surely you are very close to that serious debt that is left behind with the Green Left amendment that has been adopted? Then there's no reason to turn that on so badly, is there? Then I say: come on, if we really want to tackle this trafficking and part of the Chamber says 'we want to move on, but we are going to take a step back', we are going to take a step in the direction of the VVD and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u168	But then it really gets a bit of a repetition. I chose purpose. This is already automatically conditional in the case law. I thought it was important, also to the appreciation of the initiators, to clarify this in this amendment because I really have a feeling about it. But I do think we should draw a line on balance. We are also talking about a legal profession, we are also talking about women and men who voluntarily choose to practice this profession. There are. I would be very sorry for them if an over-explaining of this bill would criminalize the customer, which could cost them customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u169	So, let me get this straight, the VVD's main argument is that customers shouldn't be chased away from legal sex workers. Then I would like to know from Mr Van Oosten whether he seriously thinks that clients of legal sex workers know the difference and I shall say quite frankly that I did not know that correctly last week between intent and conditional intent and serious guilt. Does he seriously think that they would be deterred by this bill and that this would not happen if a bill were to be drafted and conditional?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u170	That is exactly why I choose to draw the line with an amendment on purpose, including conditional design. This makes a huge difference for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and thus also for the effects on the customer. At a time when he can be accused of having a suspicion, serious or not, has the step been taken very quickly to ring the doorbell at home and it is said that you have visited a prostitute and could have suspected of it? As soon as the D.A. can prove that there's a conditional intent, of a significant opportunity, I'm thinking, grab this guy. But when this is not the case, I think: we are also talking about a legal profession for which a man or woman voluntarily chooses. I have an eye for that, too. I don't want to take away their profession and their earnings just by criminalizing it too much. I think you should find a valuable balance in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u171	That wasn't my question. I understand that Mr Van Oosten knows the difference, because he has studied for it. The argument is that the customers are being deterred. The fear of being called at the door and asked'may I speak to your husband for a moment because he has just been visiting', let me say on Mr Van Oosten's behalf. The question was whether a customer would be deterred by the principle of serious debt. Would the same customer think "well no, in the bill it's gotten set up and conditionally set up," so now I'm going to visit? How many customers know that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u172	We can discuss this for a long time, but I'll approach it differently. I think it is also our responsibility to assess the impact of a legislative proposal and what we want to achieve with it. I would like to deal with trafficking in human beings with colleagues, especially if customers have knowledge of it and accept the significant opportunity to do so. At the same time, I note that we have accepted in this country that prostitution is legal and can exist. I hear from the sex workers in question their very great fear of the complete existence of this bill. They don't want it for the most part at all, because they're afraid it'll criminalize the customers. I too, perhaps, and Mrs Swinkels; at least we have tabled the amendment together, say that we have to deal with it wisely. We have to go along with it, but we also have to draw a line sometime. We do that at the intersection of conditional intent and conscious guilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr Van Oosten does not want to drive customers away from legal prostitutes, but this bill is very close to his own amendment. The licensing system is governed by the system he has set out in his amendment. Only illegal prostitution will be subject to the principle of serious suspicion. What is he going to do if it is going to apply to the licensing system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u174	I'm not talking about a licensing system or anything. I am talking about the proposal that is now being tabled. This basically means that a customer can be punishable if he could have had a serious suspicion. That's how it's turned out. That's one step too far for me. We've given each other a whole exposition on that. I think you should set that limit on parole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u175	We're not going to have the debate again. This is the second term. I can tell everyone's repeating themselves. Mr Voordewind, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr Van Oosten talks about legal prostitution. This is a system of permits...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u177	I say a legal profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u178	No, Mr van Oosten, Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u179	In the case of a licensing system, conditional design shall apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u180	I'm talking about prostitution being a legal profession in this country. You can do that. I have an eye for that, too. I'm talking to sex workers who say, "Be careful, because I have to have clients to do my job." If this proposal comes completely through the Second and First Chambers, one fears criminalisation of the customer. I have an eye for that, and I am trying to listen to it, and that is why I tabled the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr. Chairman. With your encouragement, I'm sure you'll be able to keep it short. With an initiative law, we are always very generous with compliments. That's right. I am going to be that again, because I enjoyed the response of this gang of three, these three Musketeers, and of course the response of the Minister for Security and Justice, but it deserves a separate mention. Why? Not because we have to beat each other up here, but because I too, in the short time I have been allowed to speak on this subject, have seen that there are simply abuses in this sector, regardless of whether it is going to go as far as the estimates range from 10% to 90% of the industry. Mrs van Tongeren and I have just exchanged the view that we would not know what other sector we would say: in only 10% of cases there is serious abuse or serious crime, so we leave it at that. We don't. I get a bit of an uncomfortable feeling from Mr Van Oosten's input and from the way in which the liberal groups, D66 and the VVD, have expressed their views on this today. As if a victim of trafficking who is abused by someone who knowingly takes advantage of him or her deserves more protection than a man or woman who is abused by someone who says: I don't know so well, it might be wrong, but I'm just making the wrong decision; I'm taking that risk. I find that equally regrettable in both cases, because there is in fact no distinction between these two groups. Once again, we are not talking about prostitutes. These are people who are happy and proud to do their work, as I said in my contribution in the first term. I therefore do not understand the fear of liberal parties that we are secretly engaged here in criminalising the profession of prostitution. It will not be surprising that we are fully in favour of this bill. Once again, I thank the initiators for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u182	Mr. Chairman. To respond to your urgent call for compliments, I congratulate the proposers on a very beautiful proposal. Let me take this one step further. I congratulate not only the proposers, but also the people behind the proposers. I know very well that the authors have put a lot of hours of work into it, but that this is probably not proportionate to the hours put in by the people behind the proposers and the other supporters. So thank you very much for all the hard work. That has certainly been noted in the Chamber. I'm standing here on behalf of Roelof van Laar, who couldn't be here. I thank the authors for their reply. For my second term, I actually only have one point. I continue to find it difficult to consider the position of the customer who initially does not know what is going on, only at the end of his contact with the lady or gentleman concerned has noticed that it is not right and then wants to make a report. Report Crime Anonymous might be a route, but I'm a little worried about the liability of that person if he says he did this to his honour and conscience, but I'd like to tell him what he knows and very much want to make sure that he gets better with this gentleman or lady, without going to jail for that. I would like to receive a response from the authors on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u183	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The compliments are indeed right, because it is a huge job for Members of Parliament to put forward legislative proposals in addition to the usual work as a Member of Parliament. This is independent of the way in which it is judged politically. I propose that we now take a break from dinner and that the initiators respond to the motions that have been tabled. After the second term of the initiators, the debate on the implementation of the Directive on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u184	We have arrived at the reaction of the initiators in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for all the questions and comments and for the fine debate we have had. We did not agree, but Mr Voordewind quoted a very nice quote from one of my heroes, Dietrich Bonhoeffer. It is a very nice moral starting point that drives me: silence when you are confronted with evil is evil in itself. That is the starting point. We see evil in human trafficking, in coercion, in exploitation. If you look away, if you say nothing and still use the services of, in this case, a prostitute, then you are responsible. Looking away is evil in itself. That's the moral starting point. I thank the Minister for his response. It is very significant if our objective, the fight against trafficking in human beings, is shared very widely in the Chamber and in the Cabinet. The Minister stressed that the fight against trafficking in human beings is at our heart and connects us. It's just looking for the best way. Thank you for the constructive attitude of the Minister, also in that light. I would like to thank GroenLinks for taking the perhaps golden middle course. There are parties that don't go far enough. Other parties are a little out of line. But there is a way that is passable. We have accepted it in the letter of amendment. I thank GroenLinks for that constructive attitude. At the same time, I hope that this path will be a second best for the PVV group, which is not represented tonight, as Mr Helder has already suggested. I liked the way my colleague Van Toorenburg quoted Marleen the Pater. She recently slipped us, but this was close to her heart. She made a proposal for it once. In all honesty, I have to say that I only took note of it when I was referred to by the CDA Group. It's nice to mention her name. It's nice if we give her the posthumous credit she deserves. Thank you for the warm words of the CDA Group on the fight against coercion and exploitation. Mrs Van Toorenburg is on the shoulders of her predecessors, including former colleague De Pater. Mr Voordewind has asked about the situation in which doctors participate in abortion or facilitate people in housing. For the sake of clarity, I would like to underline what I have already said: many of these acts are already punishable, for example through disciplinary law. Falseness in writing is, of course, already a criminal offence. After the quickscan made it clear that the customer's responsibility was the missing link, we really went to that missing link with this bill. Those other responsibilities lie and are already given elsewhere. This is just the missing link. I agree with what Mr Gesthuizen said in her second term. She put the victim at the center of attention. That's what it's all about. We can have a very legal and political discussion about conditional intent and conscious guilt, we can all figure it all out, but we stand up for the victim. And for her or for him, it doesn't matter if it was intentional guilt or conditional intent. It's about protection. The victim must be able to count on us. The victim must be able to count on us to do what we can to defend his or her interests. That's what we want. That is what we share very widely. I hope that the words I have heard about this will lead to support for the legislative proposal. At the very end of my speech I would also like to thank the people who have supported us. I'm looking at Manon Langenius, who sits right in the back of the civil servant's lodge. She has supported us from the Ministry and I thank her very much for all the input and help. I wanted to say "interestless help," but I don't know if it was completely irrelevant. Many, many thanks for that! Behind me are Christel Wiskerke, Harmjan Vedder and Ton Langenhuijzen. We've been hanging out with each other for a while, also sighing, and it's nice to be able to stand here now. Thank you so much for all that support!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of change. I see that Mr Van der Staaij is no longer here, even though I promised him that he would comment on a point he made in the second term. Maybe I can say briefly that what he said is true. Then that's enough. I can discuss it for the stage, but maybe it's better to have another dinner with him. The essence is that what he says is true, but it turns out in practice that it is a rare situation. In the suspension, we talked to each other. Actually, I wanted to mention something we got yesterday. I should like briefly to mention this case in order to explain why we, not just us but especially the field, want to have that conscious guilt so badly. This is an example from a recent study. The police have found reviews of one of the victims on www.hookers.nl. I advise everyone to look at that site and to be alarmed by what is being said there. Scared of what is being said about possible signals, of which you can ask yourself whether this can actually be proved intentionally. In this case it is a victim who appeared to be very popular in the reviews on hookers.nl. She was so popular that she worked double shifts seven days a week. A quote reads as follows: "The only major disadvantage of R. is that because she is so often occupied, she is completely exploited by her pimp. She usually starts at 10:00 in the morning and then has to work until 02:00 or 03:00 in the morning. She writes her income on a notebook, and that guy gets really rich from her. I've tried to give her some extras for herself, but she's afraid to keep it. We should act as runners ourselves, but that may be too dangerous." So walkers are the customers. "We could buy R. and just treat her the way it should." The current situation is that in this case the customer cannot be prosecuted, because once again, the use of the services of a victim of trafficking in human beings was and is not yet punishable. What is written here indeed tends to know, but it is at least conscious guilt and that is what the authors of this case wanted to indicate. That's why we want that conscious guilt in it. If you assume the design variant in the D66 and VVD amendments, you have to assume that the customer deliberately says: because she is a victim of trafficking in human beings, I use her. The question is, can we do that? I would therefore like once again to give consideration to the question of how liberal this is. How liberal is it that a customer stays out of the loop, because it cannot be proven that he thought in advance that he was going to visit this victim of human trafficking? I will give it to the authors of the amendment, even though I know that we may not be able to agree on this point. Last night, when I was writing my input, it touched me deeply. I have already mentioned it in an interruption, but I would like to give it to you once more. We have discussed this with the fellow spokesmen in detail... in this case they are not fellow spokesmen! I hope that we have made it clear to the CDA and SP spokesmen why it has added value. I think it is important not to forget that it is precisely the industry that benefits from tackling these abuses. We've talked about it extensively, and we don't have to do it again. I understand the fear, but this industry is so beneficial in preventing this kind of trafficking in human beings, which, under the heading of prostitution, actually pollutes the prostitution industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u187	To avoid any possible misunderstanding: where you say "I," you speak on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u188	I choose the pluralis fashioniae in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u189	Very good! Then I can give the floor to Mrs Kooiman on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks started her input very strikingly. This is indeed a law, and I cannot stress it enough, which does not concern sex workers but victims of trafficking in human beings. I very much liked Mrs Van Tongeren's contribution to emphasising the position of sex workers. She's tabled a very nice motion. It is not up to us to judge this motion, but I think it is very nice to emphasise the sometimes plightful position of sex workers. We are, of course, also opposed to the exclusion and stigmatisation of these sex workers. I thought it was important to mention that here. It is good that this motion has been tabled and it is good to emphasise that there will indeed be a discussion with the Minister and with Mayor Van der Laan, in which sex workers can indicate what they are up against. I think that the initiators and the entire Chamber are curious about the outcome of that discussion and the research that results from it. D66 pointed to what is happening in Europe. Mrs Swinkels actually said that what is happening in Europe is not working. I would like to point out, however, what the national rapporteur said in her report, namely that there is currently insufficient data in Europe to make comparisons and that it is necessary to investigate them. That is also what we support as initiators of this legislative proposal, although it is not really up to us to make a ruling on it. I want to have said that anyway. We have, of course, made comparisons within Europe and they clearly show that this is proven ineffective in Finland, for example, where the D66 amendment and the VVD are derived from. I say it again: we do not want a law that does not work. I would therefore ask the authors of the amendment, which only affects the design variant, to allow Mrs Volp's words to be properly understood once again. After all, the Public Prosecutor's Office itself says that it can't get away with it. It has also been shown in Europe and in Finland itself that it simply does not work. A somewhat remarkable statement I also felt that we should not address the customer, but should focus on international networks. The initiators believe it should be and-and. Why couldn't you also criminalize the customer who knew or knew that the person concerned was a victim of trafficking in human beings? However, you must also use international networks. That's where we'll find each other. We strongly support the requested research into the voluntary sex sector, as I said to GroenLinks. The CDA Group has once again stressed why it chose to join the fight against trafficking in human beings in criminal proceedings. Let me put it nicely: we have tried to join in the criminalisation of trafficking in human beings. There is therefore a higher penalty rate in the amendment than we apply. Indeed, we did not choose to do so, because, as we have said, we have tried to join crimes as a temptation to a minor and paid sex with a minor, Article 248a and 248b of the Code of Criminal Law. We did the same because the customer is not the human dealer himself. We actually think that this is a deduced crime and believe that you should treat it as such. We have therefore made a different consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u191	I understand the argument, but the initiators state so clearly that it is ultimately a question of combating trafficking in human beings. If they focus on this, while these people are maintaining this trafficking in human beings, could it not be that the initiators are just taking one step further and saying that we might not have chosen to do so, but we leave the judgement to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u192	That's not in line with the other punishments I've just mentioned. I do recognize Mrs Van Toorenburg's passion. I would like to join in this, but we are nevertheless choosing the penalty measure chosen in the legislative proposal. Finally, there was Mrs Dikkers' question from the PvdA Group. She had a very difficult case. Suppose, so early, a customer takes a service from a victim of trafficking in human beings and afterwards thinks: were these actually signs of trafficking in human beings? Let us say that today we are talking about situations involving the 'conscious guilt' variant that we have incorporated into the law. This means that there must be a lot of signals if the situation really is to be covered by this law. I am thinking of examples such as Mrs Volp who has also mentioned, where it happens via-via in an attic and you only have to pay to a pimp. I can give you enough examples where the signals are quite clear. It's about someone who deliberately ignores them. Suppose the situation is as Mrs. Dikkers sketches it. In that case, of course, that is also something that the Public Prosecutor may be able to take into account. Someone saw that, looked at it afterwards, and then reported it. That person felt guilty, so he did report it. The judge can, of course, take that into account in the end. But I would have liked to have said here that reporting an example of this act, in which someone is deliberately guilty and thus could know that it was a victim of trafficking in human beings, never can be a free pass to get out of this punishment, because that would not do the victim of trafficking in human beings any good. I also hope to respond to the questions raised by the PvdA Group. These were, I think, the answers from the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u193	Thank you very much. Finally, I should like to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice in his role as advisor to the Chamber on this draft initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u194	Mr. Chairman. I thank the spokesmen for their contribution in second term and I thank the initiators for their response to the contributions of the spokesmen. Let me begin by joining Mrs Dikkers, who congratulated the initiators, as I had done in the first term, but also the support, knowing that, as Mrs Dikkers said, this is not just about the three Musketeers, but about the support for the six Musketeers. There is no doubt that the three Musketeers sitting in the backseat with their swords have once again pricked to the front seat in order to get there, and I'm just going to rush out there; you never know how that goes. Let me then say that I am very grateful to Mr Segers and therefore to the initiators for their compliments on official support. As we know, it is a good practice to support initiative legislative proposals from the department concerned, but I very much appreciate the appreciation that has been expressed here too. Let me say in general terms that I very much appreciate the broad support of the Chamber for the approach to trafficking in human beings that we have shaped in recent years. This bill sees the cabinet as supporting it. We therefore welcome the fact that, if we look at the atmosphere of the Members of Parliament a little bit, a majority will be voting in favour of the legislative initiative. I said that on the amendments relating to the legal debate on what form of intent or guilt is appropriate, I left the judgement to the Chamber. However, I indicated on behalf of the cabinet that, in accordance with the advice of the Council of State and the Council of Ministers, there is a preference for the design variant, possibly including conditional design. This brings the legislative proposal into balance with the views of, for example, the sex workers themselves and the industry. I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I come to Mrs van Tongeren's motion, co-signed by Mrs Swinkels. In this motion, in part No. 18, the government is invited to take initiatives to strengthen the social position of sex workers, to step up assistance to sex workers and to examine the need to strengthen the legal status of sex workers. The Chamber will have noticed that this is actually the line I have already indicated. I have the commitment to discuss this with Mayor Van der Laan. That is why I consider this motion to support my policy. I am therefore happy to take her over, assuming that there is no objection from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u195	To my knowledge, it is the first time that the new Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u196	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u197	... will be used for an initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u198	Oh, on an initiative. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u199	Yeah, it's happened a lot in other cases, of course, I know that. I will first give Mrs Van Tongeren the opportunity to ask a question in substance. Then I have to raise the question of whether there are any Members who object to this motion being taken over by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u200	I would like to put my motion to the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u201	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u202	Fine. Then I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 18 to the Chamber. In the motion-Swinkels/Van Tongeren in part no. 19 conclusions are attached to the research of the Region Plan. There would be problems with the social service, UWV, the Tax Administration and banks and this situation would not have improved since 2006. According to a recital in this motion, the social position of sex workers could be strengthened by accessible access to (public) bodies. The government is invited to actively work to improve the position of sex workers and to do so all before the plenary treatment of the Law regulation prostitution. If it's okay, this treatment will take place very quickly. As far as I am concerned, this is happening as soon as possible. From what I have said, it has already become clear that enormous progress has been made in a very large number of areas in recent years. One example is the Tax Administration, where the opt-in scheme for sex workers has continued. In recent years there have also been enormous improvements in the banking sector in a number of areas thanks to the efforts of the cabinet, in particular my predecessor. There is therefore no question that there would be no improvement, as stated in the motion. As far as I know, no position can yet be taken as to whether there is access to public authorities that is easily accessible. I do not want to jeopardise the treatment of the law on prostitution in any way by doing all kinds of things for that. As far as I am concerned, that law must be dealt with with with the greatest and swiftest urgency in this house. For that reason, I can only advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-7.u203	This brings us to the end of the discussions on this initiative legislative proposal. For the sake of clarity, we still have a long evening to go. I thank all those involved for their input. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
