ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment and the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven as the first speaker, on behalf of D66. It's Mrs. Van Veldhoven's birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I could not have imagined a more beautiful birthday present than the debate on the Fyra survey. In 2013, D66 together with the CDA, fortunately supported by a majority of this Chamber, initiated a parliamentary survey on the Fyra. With each other in this room, we wanted the bottom stone to rise. The most important conclusion of the report is that I am very proud that one of the Members is present today in the debate. The result was that the traveller was left empty-handed. Also, the State, which all this time seemed to have focused more on the treasury than on the traveller and the transport offer for the traveller, remains altogether somewhat destitute. The NS, an important protagonist in this drama, still retains the hsl-concession. Actually, that's a strange figure. The rest of my contribution I would like to pass through the main conclusions of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, starting with the conclusion on the future transport and use of the HSL-South. Since a concession contract was concluded with HSA in 2001, 15 years have elapsed. The traveller still does not have a flexible, cheap high-speed connection with Brussels. That's rubbing. In order to offer the traveller a better offer, the State Secretary organises a market exploration in the autumn. Let me be very clear: D66 appreciates very much that the Secretary of State is trying to get a better offer for the traveller, but is this the solution? Parties other than the NS may make an offer and the NS may strengthen the policy accordingly. If the NS fails to do so, so if the NS itself does not come up with the solutions that the NS is actually offered on a platter, the NS must employ that other party. Once again, I appreciate that the Secretary of State is looking, also through unorthodox ways, but I am afraid that in the market as it is now working, the incentives are simply wrong again. Alternative providers will not be allowed to look into the map. They will either not make an offer, because they will actually present their own strategy to the NS, or they will make a very unrealistic offer which the NS does not seem to be able to meet, so that they will still have a chance. Are we not walking in the same kind of trap as the trap in which we ended up with the Fyra in the first place? My group's concern is that this market exploration does not give us a realistic picture of what can still be done on the hsl. I would like to point out that my group does not expect any miracles of what else is to be taken out of this line. It's become a difficult case. We also know that the negotiations with the Belgians are difficult, but if we are going to try, we must make a real effort, and we can really get a real picture of what can be done. That is why I propose that we do things differently: really redeploy the hsl, give the parties time to prepare for a real new tender by already being clear about conditions, criteria and requirements, make a realistic question and assess offers also on their real value and on the quality of the transport offer rather than on what they provide financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	I have great admiration for Mrs Van Veldhoven, but I cannot help thinking that, with the knowledge of the past 25 years, she is here proposing that the HSL-South should be public tendered. The tragedy of the past 25 years was the low point of 2001. Minister Netelenbos tried to give it to him privately, but Prime Minister Kok said we're spending. As a result, the NS has made a madly high bid. As a result, these brackish trains were ordered, because the NS wanted an affordable train anyway. And then Mrs Van Veldhoven here, with her eyes dry, presents exactly what has caused evil. Why? Explain it to me and pull me back in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u4	I'd be happy to. Mr Smaling opposed market forces because of market forces. That is different from saying that with the way the Fyra was tendered at the time, incredible mistakes were made and that the incentives were completely wrong. I therefore call for the lessons that the Fyra Committee rightly draws on the way in which this call for tender has been carried out, in order to achieve a tender that offers the best for the traveller. What's best for the traveler, you can't see until you can compare things. Without a tender, there's one bid, and then you have to assume that's the best offer. I'd like us to put different offers next to each other and then, based on a comparison, determine what's the best offer. We must stop thinking about unrealistically high offers, as has been the case with the Fyra so far. No, that's not gonna happen. We're gonna have to be much sharper on that. But the fact that you can judge what is best for the traveller if you have different offers side by side, can't even Mr Smaling get around that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u5	I really sense selective debate in what Mrs Van Veldhoven is doing here. In the 1990s, with the support of D66 ministers such as Wijers and Brinkhorst, the NS was divided. It was one of the world's leading railway companies and in the 1990s we deliberately put that company in a position where we should never have put it. So I would now expect Mrs Van Veldhoven, looking back at these 25 years, to choose the approach that we should stop bashing the Dutch Railways, that we should embrace that company again and that we should try to give it the stature it deserves instead of turning the whole country upside down with the parrots that it is such a bad business. Why doesn't Mrs. Van Veldhoven choose that approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u6	First of all, let me say that I have a great deal of respect for what the NS is doing. It's a great company. I also think that this is reflected in international comparisons. We can be very happy with each other that we have an NS, which lets the trains run daily in the Netherlands. I've been working every day for years. I have also done this abroad and can therefore compare something. The NS is a very nice company. Let's be proud of that. However, for D66 not the company NS but the traveler should be at the centre. I have heard Mr Smaling repeatedly say that the traveller must stand on one. If he really thinks that, apart from his ideas about what is or is not a good company, he should really put it on one and then dare to look at what the traveller is best served by. My group is prepared to do so. If the NS comes out best, we will congratulate her most warmly, because of course the NS can also participate in such a tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u7	We are discussing a drama with taxpayers' money: the Fyra and the hsl. That drama started in the nineties, with the ruins of Purple. Mrs. Van Veldhoven has put on a beautiful purple dress. So I'd say almost...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u8	That's almost entrapment, you'd say!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u9	I think that must have symbolic value. The 1990s were the time of the megalomaniac European plans. The HSL had to connect the Netherlands to a European high-speed network, which would make flying unnecessary. It was the time for the introduction of the euro and the acceleration of the European Union. Today we are having a big deal of trouble: there may be a Brexit tomorrow and now we are having the debate on the Fyra. My question to Mrs Van Veldhoven is as follows. It advocates contracting the hsl to parties other than the NS. A year and a half ago, there was a debate on the granting of concessions to the NS. Then it was chosen to include the hsl in that concession. One party has said: let's not do that now. That was my party, the PVV. We said at that time: do not give the hsl to the NS now, but spend it separately. I have also tabled a motion on this. Why did D66 vote against it then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u10	I cannot recall the exact wording of that motion now, but I do know that the CDA and D66, at that time, together argued in favour of giving other parties a chance. Perhaps Mr Madlener should take a look at why he did not support our motion at the time. In any case, this motion did not make it, but we have argued in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u11	This is a strange way of doing things. I just happened to read back the lyrics. A year and a half ago, we talked about granting the concession directly to the NS. There was the hsl in it, too. My input was: "The NS has shown that she can't do it. Now there's a survey going on. Let's at least wait for the results of that survey before we give it to the NS for another ten years." Your party did not support that motion at the time. I can only conclude that at that time you made a very different choice than you did with this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u12	I can only conclude that you have apparently only read back your own contribution. Both D66 and the CDA have consistently advocated giving other parties a chance. That's what we're doing now. I do welcome your contribution and hope that you will support our request, because it seems that we are working in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u13	We are less than 15 minutes busy and we already have the whole problem of driving the railway in the Netherlands on the table. On the one hand you have the market adepts and on the other hand the people who say: it must be regulated from the State and there must be one company for it, because the railway is not suitable for anything other than a form of monopoly. I think we're gonna have a really hard time getting out of there. I do have another question. We've had the Chicken Commission before. We debated her report and it was said that one of the major problems is the zigzag policy of, among other things, the Chamber. We also had a nice report from the First Chamber on privatisation. The title said something about "derailed." I think it was "derailed the connection." I don't remember exactly what the title was. In that report, which I believe also included members of the D66 Group, it was concluded that one of the major problems is that we zigzag too often. With that thought in mind, I ask the following question. Is it wise to do this now? Or should we not say as a Chamber: we all have our own ideas, which are quite different from each other, but let us for heaven's sake follow one long line? By that line, I mean let the NS work out the current concession and then see what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u14	I appreciate Mrs Van Tongeren's reference to consistency. Especially when you sign a contract, there has to be a certain degree of consistency. D66 and the CDA are consistent in their ongoing plea to give other parties a chance. But you can't just break a contract. I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren. That is why I did not say in my speech that I want it to happen now. I'd like us to develop scenarios to see what's the right time. I can also imagine a scenario in which we say: as a result of this parliamentary survey, we take the decision of principle that other parties, parties to whom the opportunity has been taken away by the way in which the tender was conducted, will have another chance, but then at the end of the current concession, in which case you will have to start preparations a few years before. I think that too is a very conceivable scenario. It's not easy to break open a scenario in between. As a government, you have to deal with that carefully. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u15	My question is at a level above. Mrs Van Veldhoven explains her own proposal and her own strategy once again, but I am trying to get out of it. In the 30 years that this played in the Chamber, it was: send on detail, then stay at a great distance and then send on detail. Isn't it time to say Kamerbreder: this might not be the most optimal line? If we had a majority of GroenLinks and D66 in the Chamber, we might have a slightly different policy, but we do not. Shouldn't we, at least, all of us, seek longer consistency in the policy we ask of the NS so that the Schwung stays in the company? It does not help to say: I am consistent in my criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u16	I believe that I have given a fairly precise answer to Mrs Van Tongeren's question as to whether, at the end of the concession period, we are implementing such a decision. I also said that I would be open to saying that if we take a decision in principle together, we will be able to do so at the end of this concession period. In my view, we do not disagree on the fact that we also have a responsibility to deal carefully with a company that concludes a contract for ten years and makes certain investments for that purpose. I believe that we are not at a level difference, but I indicated that I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren is making that point and that I am certainly considering this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The focus on the traveler, that's why we're sitting here with each other. The main conclusion of the report was: focus on the traveller. And what do we offer the traveller with what is now in store? An offer that stands out starkly in the face of what has ever been promised. Amsterdam-Brussels in 109 minutes. If you're lucky, otherwise it's over two and a half hours. The Hague-Brussels two and a half hours? He's only gonna go four more times a day. This is even a deterioration in relation to the current situation. How could it have come to this? This question is particularly relevant to The Hague. Why hasn't the Belgians been negotiated? In the answer to the questions I read that there has been contact with the Belgians. They indicated that they do not think it is a good idea to delete a Belgian station. What a surprise, I'd almost say. The question is, of course, whether this has just been accepted. You would almost think that these trains only run from the Netherlands to Belgium and not from Belgium to the Netherlands. There's a mutual interest, isn't there? The Hague, the international city of peace and justice, the political heart of the Netherlands, which has only four times a day a direct link with Brussels, the political heart of Europe; we would like to see that different, but at the moment it is. You sure that wasn't worth a negotiation? I urge the Secretary of State to reopen negotiations with SNCB at political level as well and to see if there is any improvement for the traveller from The Hague. If the NS and SNCB are negotiating with each other, they will, of course, do so on the basis of the political guidelines at that time. However, in its contacts with its Belgian colleague, the Secretary of State might also be able to create space in the direction of SNCB in order to ensure that the traveller from The Hague does not suffer a deterioration but an improvement on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u19	This reminds the Secretary of State that in 2016 a motion was tabled, signed by Ms Dijksma, in which the government is asked to consider how The Hague can be served as a city with international companies. I am curious to hear the answer to that question, because this will have been sorted out in the meantime. However, I am taking another step back. After 2025, there is a re-contracting process. The concession lasts so long, so that makes sense, but you can write this again explicitly. I believe that Mrs Van Veldhoven refers a bit to market exploration, but what does she intend to do in the meantime until 2025 to improve transport? It is right to ask a number of questions, but does it also have concrete proposals on how we can investigate this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u20	I haven't referred the market exploration to the trash can yet. I have asked a number of critical questions, and the central question is whether this will produce any results. I would very much like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State to those questions. As far as I am concerned, these two could also be mutually exclusive. You could now see how far you can get with the market exploration. In any case, I believe that we should take the decision in principle to actually re-indicate that concession. We must not assume that, because it is now an integrated part of the main rail network, this will be the case next time. It would be very nice if this Chamber, on the basis of all the conclusions in the Fyra report and the central conclusion that we should consider whether we can get more out of it for the traveller, decided to redeploy the hsl, at least at the end of the concession but, as far as I am concerned, perhaps sooner if there does not seem to be much out of the market exploration. We can decide that in time. If we take that decision in principle, the NS will again have a fair chance, but we will also give the traveller a fair chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u21	We agree on that. The VVD explicitly requested this in 2013, but then it was integrated. We need to be able to decouple this so that we can contract it separately. We agree on that. Mrs Van Veldhoven asks a number of valid questions, but she still wants to see how we can improve that offer for the traveller before 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u22	Is this gonna work? I'm very sceptical about that, I'd almost say. However, you should try something rather than try nothing. I am pleased that Mrs De Boer reiterates her view that we should also give other parties a chance at the HSL and that we should at least take the decision to dedicate the HSL to the end of the concession period. The VVD is consistent in that. Maybe that market exploration will get us something; we don't know that. I don't know about that either, but that would be great for this concession period. If, however, it does not produce any results, we shall at least have a discussion with each other as to whether or not we are going to do anything earlier. Maybe that's where the challenge lies. This is, of course, dependent on the financial consequences, but it must always be at the heart of the journey. That's the only thing that matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u23	The running of trains on almost all lines is very lossy. That can only be done with a lot of subsidies. There have been huge shortages and the end is not yet in sight. The trains are overcrowded, the NS suffers from equipment shortages and you name it. In this light, D66 advocates a kind of civil service train between The Hague and Brussels. Doesn't Mrs Van Veldhoven find it a bit bizarre that D66 comes here with the desire to have a civil servant train with a lot of subsidy money while the ordinary employee is in the Netherlands or at a crowded station or can't even go because there is no money to drive decent trains in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u24	In the whole range of transport, it is assumed that this train will run to a large extent inland. All those people Mr Madlener calls are on that train. There are also people here in The Hague who would very much like to have a good connection through that train. There are indeed people who want to move on to Brussels. That is not the case all day; I can imagine something when considering the Secretary of State. You want to use the train effectively and efficiently. For The Hague, however, there is only a deterioration, because there are fewer trains and the duration is not shorter. So there is only a deterioration for The Hague, and that is what I am talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u25	We have just heard a speech in which it was said that The Hague should have an international allure: the civil servant city of The Hague connected with the civil servant city of Brussels. All these much-deserving European officials are stepping at taxpayers' expense on that expensive train. Mrs Van Veldhoven now suddenly argues that this is for ordinary travellers. Don't make me laugh! She has just said that it is the international connection with Brussels; the Brussels idea that makes this train so important. Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u26	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u27	It is nice that in some cases you know that something always works like a red rag on a bull. In the case of the PVV, that is the word 'Brussels'. We see that, above all, many officials on this train would like to make an efficient journey to Brussels. Those are hardworking Dutch citizens. The people here in The Hague want that, too. They want to get to Brussels for their work in an efficient way and also want to be able to go home in the evening. I'll get to that in a minute. I hope that Mr Madlener will also support those people, even though they are travelling to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u29	I had just arrived at this point. I would ask the State Secretary, in consultation with the NS and SNCB, to allow Benelux trains to continue until later in the evening. Now the last Benelux train and the last Thalys go exactly at the same time. I believe there's ten minutes in between. The Thalys only drives till 9:00. In any case, the Benelux train would have added value by driving until later in the evening. As a hardworking Dutch official, you can also just go home in the evening and don't have to spend the night in Brussels if your debate or discussion ends. I refer to the decision of the cabinet on the layout of the railroad. The committee calls for a debate on the organization of the railways. My group therefore hopes that the scenarios requested will be in the Chamber at the beginning of next year. We think it would be good to ask the ACM to give an opinion on these scenarios. Then we have a complete picture right away and then we can have a good discussion right away. As far as D66 is concerned, this includes the rethinking of ProRail's positioning. Over the last few years, we have had many discussions about effective and efficient management of a safe and reliable track. This was also discussed side by side during the round table we held together. In addition, we constantly encountered inter-layers and problems of coordination. This has got to be better. During the round table conversation, all users called on us, including those who came to us complaining about the intermediate layers and the alignment etc., to first give ProRail room to put things in order and to put the user on one. I asked Mr Smaling a moment ago, but I also felt this as an apple to myself. That is why I want to take this appeal seriously. This also gives the Secretary of State time to present the Chamber with a scenario for better control of the rail system on the basis of a good problem analysis in the meantime. I ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to do so. While we are talking about the planning, I would like to go a little further in the discussion of the scenarios. D66 believes that the scenarios should find the best order to put the traveller on 1, as well as for the most efficient door-to-door journey; in other words: the real accessibility for the traveller. If we are going to have a discussion about the organization, we should not be talking about an order. We must think that with a certain order we can best serve the traveller. The traveller must get a good offer from door to door. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the decentralised transport in its reconnaissances around the organization? Now the reliability of new train services. The Fyra has become a distinctive and painful example of the lack of pre-checks and the lack of alternatives afterwards. The NS took responsibility for a train that wasn't finished yet, while it was the agreement that this would be a turnkey project. Then the train was not tested live. He'll be on the trail soon, with all the consequences of that. The Committee therefore rightly recommends that an integral pilot company be made compulsory. In the case of the Fyra, extensive tests would only have made sense if there had been a plan B or alternative. But there wasn't. That was never really there: no alternative to the NS, no alternative to AntalendBreda, no alternative to the Fyra. In future situations it should not be the case that there is a train running on our net that has only been tested on paper. In such a pilot plant the whole rail system must be carried: train, infrastructure, staff and timetable. Only then can the concession holder or the ILT issue a certificate for a successful pilot company. The Government's answer to the factual questions does not address the issue of a certificate after a successful pilot plant. Would the Secretary of State still be able to respond to this? Movares wrote a whole report on the reliability in terms of the safety of the Intercity direct. This is recommended in its audit report for a structural alignment between all parties concerned due to the unproven maturity, complexity and risk profile of the HSL-South. In the letter written by the Secretary of State following that audit, I read that this does not happen until the end of 2016. So we're gonna wait a whole year for that. I wonder if you could do that a little sooner. There may be many good reasons for this, but since the Movare report really refers to the unproven maturity and complexity, and also to the risk profile of the HSL-South, I wonder if we can bring this forward. In order to measure the performance of the NS and to be able to deal with the NS, we are working with performance indicators: the often mentioned three strikes and you're out principle, I think, once tabled by Mrs De Boer in a motion. If the NS performs three times below the standard, another carrier may partially take over the transport on the HSL-Zuid. On transport capacity, the NS already has a black cross behind its name. Now the Secretary of State comes up with one new indicator: failure. This will also be reviewed from 2017. I do wonder how it is possible in a concession that only one additional indicator may be added, whereas the documents actually show that the Secretary of State has also found that there may be a need for several indicators. The Secretary of State has already agreed, or at least indicated, that she intends to discuss these indicators with the NS. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: can we please take that with us? Perhaps then we can replace one other indicator with one new indicator, and thus remain on the total of x + 1. In any case, let us ensure that these indicators give us an idea of what we need; that is what we have them for in the end. Then I come to certification, admission and supervision. In addition to the State and the NS, the Inspection Environment and Transport have dropped large stitches in the Fyra debacle. Testing and testing only happened on paper. A risk-oriented approach, an approach aimed at securing real public interests, was missing. The committee makes a pride of recommendations. Now we've just gotten a multi-annual ILT and if you read that, you'd actually say there hasn't been a report at all. There is nothing to suggest that something will change in the approach in the short term. That is very unsatisfactory for my group. The cabinet's reaction doesn't really make it clear what the cabinet is going to do with the recommendations on the ILT. Therefore, the following questions. How does the Cabinet assess the recommendation to strictly maintain that transporter safety management systems comply with the requirements? How does the cabinet assess the recommendation on stepping up the monitoring of inspection bodies? The Committee makes five concrete points to the cabinet that are not addressed in the cabinet response. For D66 it is impossible for the manufacturer to choose and pay his own inspection body. What is the position of the Secretary of State for the future choice of the control body in the country? The passage of the cabinet on Recommendation 8 does not make it clear whether the European regulations to which the cabinet refers make it really impossible for a company acting as an inspection body to carry out other roles in the same project. I'd like a response. With regard to Recommendation 9, the following question. Why does the cabinet leave the sector free to choose and does it not respond to the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry to include final product inspection in legislation and regulations as part of the verification procedures? Then tender and contract management in the state. With different hats, the cabinet has assumed responsibility for the Fyra, the Ministry of I and M as concessional and policy-maker and the Ministry of Finance as shareholder and keeper of the treasury. I and M did not maintain the concession and after the definitive deletion of the Fyra, it was decided not to give the NS an opportunity to come up with an alternative, because otherwise the State would miss a high concession fee offered by the NS. Thus, Finance, from its role as Treasurer, also directed financial interests. The balance between these finances and a good transport offer is far from satisfactory. In the end, I think we all agree that this story knows most of the losers. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it intends to avoid such a entanglement of interests in the future? The Committee has also made recommendations to the House of Representatives: a more critical view, better understanding of long-term objectives, demanding clarity about state finances and keeping confidential information to a minimum. My group also takes these recommendations from the committee to the House of Representatives to heart. I will conclude by thanking the committee again from this point on. From the hustle and bustle of information and interests, it has been able to draw clear conclusions on the basis of which it has made extremely useful recommendations. Once again, thank you to the members of the committee and their support staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u30	We are talking about a huge debacle for taxpayers; more than EUR 10 billion of taxpayers' money has been partly squandered. The European Union, this whole European idea, has played a very important role in this, as the Committee of Inquiry concludes. And then I hear no criticism from the D66 Group about Europe, about the European idea. Nothing, like it's all going well. That's crazy, isn't it? Does D66 also see that Europe is failing, especially when it comes to rail? We see it with ERTMS, where things go wrong; the Netherlands, as a good boy in the classroom, is the first to cut up our rail system, while the French and Germans say: we are not doing it. Now it's another policy. Surely that has everything to do with European policy swirling? Why isn't that a critical word?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u31	In my view, the European Commission was not a player in the whole of the Fyra. It didn't tender the train, it didn't buy a train and it didn't carry out any inspections. That train did not arrive on behalf of the European Commission. That train came because Dutch Cabinets thought that that train should be there, because they decided to spend that train, because they decided to accept a totally unrealistic bid from a Dutch player, because they failed to make good agreements with the Belgians, because the inspection did not work, because Ansaldo Breda let everything go because there was no plan B for the Fyra and because the trains did not work. That's why it went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u32	Isn't it the European Commission who wanted us to sign everything? It had to be tendered at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u33	We have been able to decide on this ourselves. If Mr Madlener reads the committee's report correctly, he will see that there has been a direct award. It has been a Dutch political choice to spend it. I know that Mr Madlener always likes to look for criticism of Europe, and there is certainly criticism of that too, because there are a lot of things that need to be improved. I agree entirely with him, but his criticism is now a bit sought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u34	I give the floor to Mr Smaling, but first I would like to make a point of order. It was assumed that this would be a four-minute debate. There has been a misunderstanding about speaking time, for which I apologise. Probably only Mrs Van Veldhoven knew about it, but everyone is allowed to do their story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. There may sometimes be a misunderstanding, that doesn't matter. I had expected four minutes, but then I'll just talk a little slower, because then it will take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u36	You don't have to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u37	The SP Group wants to keep this debate a bit fundamental in any case. I suggest that if we want to talk about which trains exactly where and when we are driving, we do so in the general discussions about this, such as the AO Track or the AO MIRT, which will take place tomorrow. I don't want to focus on that right now. My intention is to ask the cabinet to look back a little further than the period that the Committee of Inquiry has been working on. The advantage is that both directors have been involved in this dossier for a period of time during their term of office. Many famous composers have an unvollentete in their name, because they have gone mad or died during composing. The result is that the last piece is missing. On this dossier, however, I have a very strong feeling that the first piece is missing, because many of the issues addressed by the Committee of Inquiry have their germs or causes during the period before that. I would therefore like to ask the directors whether they are prepared to give an appreciation of the way in which the whole rail system has developed since the early 1990s. I am talking in particular about pulling the Dutch Railways apart in loose pieces, which has resulted, among other things, in ProRail. It's like sitting next to Nero in the Colosseum, watching someone being quartered. The Dutch Railways underwent a rather half-hearted independence and became a state shareholding with only one shareholder, whereas you cannot formally call that an independence. Under Minister Jorritsma even for a while there was the idea to go on the stock exchange with NS, while she first independent the NS, without building a legal framework around it. This has led to the fact that the First Chamber has been unable to speak on this subject for a very long time. Minister Jorritsma said that public procurement of the HSL-South had to come from Europe, but that was not the case at all, and yet we have all been fooled. It has heavily used both Belgium and France by stepping out of the joint Thalys project in the meantime. Minister Netelenbos wanted to give it to me, but if I read the history correctly, she got into a fight with a lot of people. In the end, Prime Minister Kok did not succeed in realising the direct awards. On May 2, 2001, D-day, we saw three bids, although in reality we only saw the last offer of 178 million. One can read Marcel van Silfhout's book. This ultimately led to a call for tenders, with the NS coming up with that very crazy offer. Then there was a discussion about tariff restrictions, because of course the Chamber did not want the traveller to pay for that very high bid. We have finally seen that amount fall down, but that of course also indirectly resulted in us making a smaller order for those trains and that that order ended up with a company that you could ask yourself in advance if could deliver properly. During the journey, the Belgians wanted to have fewer trains and the ERTMS was partly introduced, which made things very complicated. The nice thing about history is that by looking back you can learn a lot. However, I often come across pieces which have led me to wonder whether we in the Chamber have not left the case. But perhaps we in the Chamber are simply not able to properly monitor something that extends over such a long period of time. After all, there are also some inherent shortcomings in our controlling role in relation to such a great thing, because one Chamber succeeds the other Chamber and also exchanges spokesmen. It would be nice to do self-reflection. In our opinion, the Dutch Railways are also by... I wait a moment, because Mrs Van Veldhoven has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u38	I think that Mr Smaling has just made a point. I wonder if he has any further ideas on how to give more hands and feet to self-reflection in these long-term projects. It is also a question of how we in the Chamber can continue to monitor and monitor such projects in a structured manner, partly in view of their continuity. ERTMS is another long-term project. It already knows a whole history. In addition, you can also see that it is difficult to maintain continuity. Perhaps Mr Smaling has some ideas on how to give these hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u39	It would be practical for us to sit down for that in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment for once. After all, we can all get along reasonably well, although many people who are looking at this debate may think they are not. Then when we are together, we can consider whether we think that makes sense and how we can shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u40	I think that's a very good idea. Perhaps Mr Smaling would like to take the initiative to raise this point at the procedural meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment? After all, he also brought it up in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u41	I will do so with all my heart. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion of the SP Group is that the Dutch Railways have also been placed in a position by the government and the Chamber, which has caused a lot of problems. At both the NS and ProRail you saw that the engineers pulled less and less strings. More and more spreadsheet managers pulled the strings, people who were specialized in hiring companies that hired companies. That's not supposed to happen, is it? It's about a trade. How can you at ProRail at some point only have two people who know something about overhead lines, two people who always know something about signal failures and two people who know something about bridges? It can't be! We all let it happen because we thought those engineers could be hired. It was thought: you don't have to have those engineers in your company; you hire them and then you'll be fine. That's a way of thinking that I have very little with. Over the past 25 years, a beautiful railway company, which also had a very good international reputation, has been found in a world of colliding egos, kinnes, distrust, incompetence and even fraud. Not so long ago, there was fraud in Limburg. We must recognise that this is the direct consequence of the separation of a railway company and the introduction of competition. You can say that competition at provincial level is still to some extent to be defended, but in this case a German state-owned company competes with a Dutch state-owned company. I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u42	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Smaling that the Dutch Railways are still a beautiful railway company, which is internationally highly regarded. The director has even told us that the punctuality of the NS is better than, for example, the trains in Switzerland. In that sense, it is still a beautiful company. My question to Mr Smaling is whether it is possible to separate those two things, the pride of the Dutch Railways and the respect for all the good things that happen there by many employees on the one hand and the criticism that we as a parliament must have of wrong decisions made, including within the Dutch Railways, on the other, so that we can learn from them. One of the recommendations or conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry was that the lobby of the Dutch Railways towards the House of Representatives was very strong. This is not about the lobby of the conductor or the engineer, but about the management of the Dutch Railways. So nobody actually dared say anything really negative about these Dutch Railways anymore. The fact that we are too afraid to say something angry about the Dutch Railways for once, without losing respect, has also caused some of the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u43	The way I look at it is variable. What Mr Van Helvert is saying is undoubtedly so, but my experience is that we are there as well as the chickens to stand here at the microphone if something has gone wrong somewhere else on the track. That's also because of our profile. We want to serve a grassroots group, especially a region in which we are large. If anything goes wrong, we're right here. Partly that is our job, because we want people who live there and have trouble serving things, but that also means that you permanently call a large rail system, with transport, infra and what goes with it, to order things that are quite detailed at the level of the large system. What has not come along: motions, changing governments, rethinking letters, third century trail. We change and wave that policy from left to right. I find that problematic. I agree with Mr Van Helvert, but it is also working in the direction of the fact that we, in particular, sometimes have too much to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u44	Absolutely, we're close to the company. I am convinced that the Dutch Railways and other carriers in the Netherlands such as Arriva, Veolia, Syntus and Connexxion are so well organized here, because we are so critical when something goes wrong. That is, of course, also a bit of the disadvantage of democracy. It's got its drawbacks, too. I fully support the praises that Mr Smaling makes to the Dutch Railways, but my question is whether he also wants to take a critical look at the NS from the SP to see what we can learn from it and to determine what we expect of our cabinet in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u45	Of course, Mr Van Helvert can rely entirely on that. However, in the context of this debate, from our party political point of view, I look back at a period in which, in our opinion, we have not made it easier for the NS. So we put her in a position that I don't think she should have been put into. That whole force field sometimes seems to be becoming state enemy number one. The citizen will charge the NS for any signal failure. The traveler doesn't really know ProRail. Every frozen change stands with the people model for a totally failing national railway company. Again, everyone's made mistakes for the past 25 years, including the NS, but we shouldn't have put that company in that position. The trains themselves and the choice for AnsaldoBreda are a direct result of that far too high bid. I just said that. I now turn to a number of concrete points arising from the government's response to the survey report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u46	Let's just say we're all happy with the NS. She does a lot of good things, but I think there are a lot of parties that have made mistakes in this matter. The SP recognizes that the NS is also partly guilty of the drama that the Fyra eventually is. Does the SP recognise, to some extent at least, any debt from the NS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u47	Yeah, there was actually an interaction between the NS on the one hand and the ministry on the other. The room was there. Then from the Ministry there is another administration HSL. These are of course all those errand boys like Mr Korf, who were the bond between one and the other. When you read back 25 years, you see that one time the ministry, another time the NS and a third time the person pushes or leaves something in between, the whole thing takes a turn that contributes to the rather hopeless situation that has already been created. The NS certainly plays a role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u48	Several factors have contributed to the fact that we are now standing here together. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's All lots have butter on their heads. Mr Smaling is now placing the NS at the heart of the matter, but I would point out that the passenger has received better transport because of what we have done over time. Does Mr Smaling not appreciate that this is a resultant of the fact that we have gone to procurement and so on? As a result, there has been better transport for the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u49	I doubt you'd call it better. Mrs De Boer is always at the forefront of saying that it has become cheaper and better. I spend a lot of time on a regional train, too, just to feel what it's like. It's fine. The line Dordrecht-Geldermalsen is a great pleasure and so there are more. But that it has become better, cheaper and more efficient, Minister Zalm has begun to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u50	May I make one more comment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u51	A short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u52	Recently, a CPB report has been issued in which it says again. Mr Smaling can read that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u53	I am going to speak to Mrs De Boer about this. My first comment on the recommendations concerns the position of ProRail. What the SP Group wants is a holding structure according to German model. That's what we'd love to see. Is what the Secretary of State envisage an intermediate step towards a situation in which the carrier and the infrastructure manager end up in a structure in which at least one or a few people can see both sides of the whole? The problem is often that they are separate organisations. If a carrier suffers from something, you are dependent on another company for the solution. We have had round tables and at the top of ProRail and NS are now quite strong figures, saying: let us do what we want for now. Of course, you have to be careful not to hang that kind of decision on the people in charge. Both Mr Van Boxtel and Mr Eringa seem to me to have done everything in life once. In six months they may decide to open a discotheque together in the Algarve. The Secretary of State has to start hiring new people. That's how you create a new situation. Over the past 25 years, a lot of people at NS have been pulling the strings. Marckmann was still a real trackman, an engineer, but then came a lot of top people who had nothing to do with the track. You have to take that into account. In that sense, I respect the fact that I think we have two good people in our midst, but I would add that it is not a long-term solution to leave everything as it is. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if this is an intermediate step. Then we can see whether we agree with her proposal. As far as we are concerned, the NS remains responsible for transport on the HSL. I think it's hard to arrive at a judge's office to take away that concession, at least until 2025. The county attorney already said you're not gonna make it to the judge with that three strikes out. So I just wouldn't do that at all. It all creates nervousness and hassle again. We just need to get rid of that. Mrs. De Boer and I were standing next to that engineer together. We know how difficult it is with all those hellies and switching from the old security to ERTMS and back again. Let us cherish the fact that we stood there together and let us join forces for the future of this HSL South. If we give it away now, if we put another carrier on it now with that market exploration, then that can also create a lot of bluff. What if Arriva or any other party makes an offer? Then it is not at all said that this will really lead to improvement in practice. Apart from that, of course, you need five, six, seven years to order trains. You can't keep getting tenders and waiting with those orders. Then you would at least leave the traveller in the cold, to remind us of the title of the survey report. A question for the Secretary of State: how is the relationship with Belgium? What is happening now and what are the expectations about the package before us? Are the Belgians fully accommodating again or does the Secretary of State see bears on the road? If so, do we have all the bears? My final point is the investigation into rail transport. Of course, it is always good to do research, but we do, of course, have that long term railway agenda, albeit not so long. The Chicken Commission has carried out a parliamentary investigation. The First Chamber has carried out a detailed investigation into self-employment and privatisation. Have we taken enough of that and learned enough? We can always look forward, but looking backwards also has a lot of added value. And we can do that now, because this committee of inquiry has been active. So do use what's already there before you start all kinds of investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr President, I do not think I need to keep an eye on time. I was expecting four minutes, but now I can make it a little longer. The passenger was promised affordable high-speed transport in 2001. 15 years and many billions later, that promise has not been fulfilled by a long time. We got a train that fell apart during the first ride and then an IC Direct that doesn't reach its final destination every once in a while. He is sometimes called the ICU Defect. Not only is the traveller fairly empty-handed, the taxpayer also has cause to complain about the many euros that have gone up in smoke by the stinging between the NS and the State. Both of them are right to cause a great deal of annoyance. The conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry are therefore, quite rightly, sharp. When we look at what went wrong, we see that financial interests went for the interests of the traveller. I therefore wonder whether the crux in the case of these problems is the fact that the State must defend these two conflicting interests at the same time. How do the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, as a concessionaire and policy maker, and the Minister for Finance as a shareholder look at the conclusion that financial interests have always been given priority? How should we deal with the tension between the yield requirements of Finance on the one hand and the substantive direction of Infrastructure and the Environment on the other, and how can the Chamber achieve a more balanced and better balance of interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u55	I know the VVD as an enthusiastic supporter of market forces, and one of the key elements of market forces is that it is assumed that the right decisions are taken by making financial interests in the market on a single basis. Now I am surprised to hear Mrs De Boer say that she does want to track market forces, but that the financial interests must be subordinate to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'm not saying that. I say that the double hats have led to that situation. The financial interests have indeed prevailed, but this was due to the fact that the State was a shareholder. That is a different approach, as far as I am concerned, from that of the State as concessionaire and policymaker. With that hat on you see how you can get as much as possible for the concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u57	According to Mrs De Boer, is full liberalisation then the solution? Does the State simply have to sell everything we have on track, because then it will be financially better for the taxpayer and better quality for the traveller? Is that the solution proposed by Mrs De Boer? I am therefore asking because she says that the double hats are the real problem and that market forces must save us from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u58	I hear Mrs Van Tongeren telling us to sell the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u59	I asked that as a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u60	I heard literally "selling the trail," but okay, maybe you mean the companies. We are now going to put a number of scenarios on paper and this scenario is also taken into account. How can you allow private parties on a track that has been cut up into pieces or that is tendered in whole or in parts? As far as I am concerned, this is all part of the investigation into the four scenarios submitted to the Chamber on the advice of the Committee of Inquiry. If that has been investigated, we can indeed say as a Chamber what we think is the best scenario for the future structure of the railways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u61	One small comment, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u62	Like the SP, I'm trying to make it a little more principled. So, according to the VVD, this is not the GroenLinks position, rather to simply transfer the entire rail market to the market, as we did at KPN?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u63	Indeed, it is no secret that we are very much in favour of contracting. I never put that under seats or sofas. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the answer is yes. We are also aware, however, that we do not have a majority in the Chamber at the moment. At the same time, we believe that we should take the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry seriously and not take ad hoc decisions. We need to develop internally coherent scenarios. This will enable us to make a choice for the future structure on the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u64	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u65	I come to the offer on the hsl, the high-speed line. The Committee recommends that transport across the HSL-South should be improved and that passengers should be offered greater ease of use. The NS claims that the new offer within the given financial frameworks is the maximum that NS can put down, and maybe it is. However, we do not know whether this offer is the optimal offer for the traveller on the HSL-South. The VVD therefore supports the proposal to explore the optimal transport offer on the market. If this deviates from the offer currently proposed, the NS should follow up the results of the market exploration within the existing concession fee and dividend arrangements. In that case, NS explicitly pays itself for any additional costs. However, who assesses whether the results of the market exploration provide for a market demand from the traveller, whether they are profitable to fit in and whether what comes out of the market exploration is not too bright? We were technically briefed by the ACM this morning. As a result, the VVD prefers to release an independent test from an external party in order to assess whether the results are not too rosy. I would like to receive a response from the rulers. If the NS is unable to carry it all out, we must, in accordance with the three strikes out, see how we can put the hsl back on the market. The cabinet does not agree with the committee's recommendation that the ease of use should be increased. This should be done by at least not imposing a reservation obligation and by enabling subscriptions to be made. With the addition of this flexibility we do the traveller a great pleasure. How is the NS going to take care of this and how is the Secretary of State going to take it up? I come to the scenarios and the degree of market forces. The Committee believes that scenarios should be developed on the degree of market forces on the track and the positioning of the State and NS in relation to each other. The four scenarios mentioned by the Committee of Inquiry are the basis of the study as far as the VVD is concerned. The cabinet wants to do the investigation itself and involve an independent agency. That's not enough for the VVD. The VVD attaches importance to the conduct of the full investigation by an independent agency. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. I'm considering a motion on this point. I'm going to go to ProRail. According to the cabinet response, the Secretary of State intends to organise ProRail closer to the Ministry. But I think there's an interruption on the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u66	As I have indicated in my contribution, what the traveller needs is actually the door-to-door journey. So you can't go outside of regional transport. Does Mrs De Boer think it would be good to include regional transport in the planning scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u67	It's an extension, though. We said it would be about the track. There are also buses in the region. To be honest, I wonder if that does not make it too broad. At least I would prefer to confine ourselves to the railways and the four scenarios mentioned by the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u68	Now drive metro and tram also by rail; if you hang it on the track, so you could go a little wider. Regional transport can also be taken on a different scale. The report is, in essence, about the organisation of the railways, about trains. But could we not at least give consideration to the Secretary of State and the Minister to see to what extent the door-to-door journey can be involved? We must then leave it to them to what extent of detail they intend to do so for the last piece. The idea was that we would put the traveller at the centre, and the traveller does not just start with the train. His journey begins at the front door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u69	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven. However, the survey report on the Fyra was not about other subjects. But when it comes to travelers, and that is what we are talking about in the end, it is indeed about door-to-door travel. As far as I'm concerned, we're starting from those four scenarios. Let us see what exactly is in the proposal and whether it has added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you. I'm here to talk about ProRail. As demonstrated by the cabinet response, the Secretary of State intends to organise ProRail closer to the Ministry. Although the VVD, as we know, is not opposed to this in principle, the question is whether this is the right time to do so. The organization is currently working hard to get things in order internally. Moreover, during the round table we had, there was a lot of criticism from the whole rail sector. Shouldn't we first give the organization and the management the chance to make the improvement a success? Or can things indeed run in parallel? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u72	I hear Mrs De Boer from the VVD saying that the VVD is "principally not an opponent" of bringing ProRail under the ministry. In my opinion, this sentence construction, without denial, means that the VVD is a principal advocate of bringing ProRail under the ministry. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u73	Yeah, that's right. We have already said this on several occasions in the past. Compare ProRail with Rijkswaterstaat. The government is responsible for the construction and maintenance of roads and waterways. That's how it's gonna be. So it's not a illogical thought, if you look at it in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u74	Still, I find it remarkable. On behalf of the VVD, Mrs De Boer often debates the allocation of rail for freight transport. There is actually an independent task there. How does the VVD look, then, as a liberal party, I believe, at least for this period of office, at ProRail's task of assigning the railway independently to the various freighters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u75	Those are the things that need to be sorted out, to be honest. I, too, attach great importance to an independent allocation of capacity, but we need to see how we are going to organise this for the future. Mr. Chairman. I come to talk about the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT). The recommendations on the ILT are adopted by the Cabinet. The VVD supports this, but it is not clear what the cabinet is going to do with these recommendations and what the timetable is for the announced change of course. I read the ILT multiannual plan last weekend, just as I think Mrs Van Veldhoven did. I couldn't find the word "Fyra" in it. This seems to indicate that, at least in the short term, nothing is being done about the recommendations. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. How do ILT recommendations take shape? How does the Chamber gain insight into the intended cultural change that is to take place there? Mrs Van Veldhoven has already said enough about the pilot company being run. I want to ask you about Zaventem. That's what we're doing on the route now. The Hague gets another four times one day a connection in rush hour. Is it an idea to consult with the Belgians again? After all, Zaventem is a bit of a detour. It came in because the director of SNCB today is director of the airport. So it was useful; it was very convenient to hook up Zaventem anyway. I understand this from the Belgian perspective. But can we not say: The Hague has turned in a piece, so can we not limit Zaventem to a number of times a day? Finally. What happens if the expected passenger growth outlined by the cabinet does not occur and additional revenues are not generated for job improvements? Then how are we gonna solve the problems at the job?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u76	I cannot help asking Mrs De Boer a fundamental question which looks back on what has happened. I have a question about the position of her party in that. In the 1990s, that party was part of purple cabinets that attracted a lot of liberalisation. That was an ideology that belonged very much to her party. I still hear Bolkestein say about the PvdA: they are the Prime Minister, we are the policy. And so it was. But if Mrs. De Boer looks back now, what's her conclusion in a few sentences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u77	That different parties in the cabinet and also several parties have made mistakes around it. All the parties involved have made mistakes, including the Chamber, because that is what the Committee of Inquiry is talking about. You will come up with a proposal shortly; I am waiting for it, but the Chamber itself also has butter on its head. All parties, then. That's how I look back at it. I would like us in this Chamber to make a choice of future scenarios on the basis of the research. What structure do we want to find in the future to prevent this kind of thing? We are all involved in that decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u78	I would like to use the word'market forces' again. It is often said that the SP is always against market forces, but this is not the case if competition on a product also clearly offers benefits to consumers. However, I do not think that is the issue on the railways. You can't catch up. You can't choose the route you choose like a driver of a car. Has the VVD also come to the conclusion after 25 years that market forces on the track are simply an illusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u79	No, because we have been able to see that market forces are working. Indeed, market forces increase the quality for the traveller. Traveling on the track does indeed appear to be cheaper. The fact that things have gone wrong here has nothing to do with the instrument of procurement or market forces. It has to do with the fact that things have gone wrong. Many parties were involved and there are many reasons for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u80	"Siamo tutti peccatori," the Italians sometimes say, "we are all sinners." That is what I hear Mrs De Boer say now: we all have butter on our heads, so let's not talk about it any further, because we have all been naughty and let's keep going. That's a little too fast for me anyway. We can look at what went wrong without quickly deciding that we were all naughty and that we should not talk about it anymore. Nor does it do justice to the good work done by the committee. Let me give you a specific example in which the Chamber also had a role: to include other parties in the debate on HSL transport. In 2013, the choice of an alternative had to be made. The CDA then tabled a motion calling for other parties to participate. The VVD then voted against that motion, apparently looking back with butter on its head. Mrs De Boer believes that the VVD also has butter on its head. Does she think, looking back, that the VVD could have supported that motion at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u81	There were signs at the time that this would lead to a new tender, which also came from the State Secretary. At the time, we had to weigh different interests: the interests of the traveller, but also the interests of the taxpayer. That choice would have meant that the taxpayer still had a 1 billion tear in his pants. We did not choose this at the time, partly because this was based on a negotiated agreement from 2011. Before that, the CDA Group and the PVV Group had also voted in favour. That made us not want this in 2013. At that time, however, we agreed to the proposal to conduct a parliamentary survey. Those results are there now. This is the second debate we are having on this subject. We take the recommendations and findings of the report seriously by ensuring that the recommendations are followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u82	There is now just one billion to be spent. In the meantime, we have lost 11 billion, but there is still no decent train on that expensive track. My question was whether Mrs De Boer would have liked it retroactively if other parties had also been able to compete for the alternative? Furthermore, we are also here to look forward. Does Mrs De Boer think that the high-speed line should not be used as a whole by 2025? That is the first opportunity to do it without a damage of 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u83	Well, if... then... then we would have had a noose of 1 billion. We didn't choose that. The idea of re-contracting from 2025 onwards, which the CDA is putting together with D66 today, is fine with me. To us, that was, frankly, a logical idea. In 2013, the VVD also explicitly asked if the hsl could be removed from the main rail concession to be able to spend it separately. We've always had that in mind. It is therefore a good idea to make an explicit agreement today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr. Chairman. At least the entire Fyra-debacle has given us a new opportunity, namely a joint hearing with Parliament in Belgium. Quite a few of us went there struggling with a slow train. Unfortunately, the next step, a joint report by both Courts, was a step too far. I wonder what the Minister of Finance's view is of two finance ministers looking at it together. I'm sure something like this will happen again in the future, but how do you get better cooperation at that level? The Chamber managed to get a hearing, but not to get the Courts to look at this together. In 2015, the parliamentary committee of inquiry presented the research report The traveller in the cold. Others have said it, but I would like to thank the committee for its thorough and comprehensive research. It was very detailed and much of it we, the spokesperson's trail, recognize, all of which have taken pieces. Unfortunately, this also applies to many citizens who have followed it in the newspaper and thought "my travel time is getting shorter and I am there affordable and very fast." It cost Secretary of State Mansveld her position. She took political responsibility for the administrative inability of her predecessors and for a failing NS and failing KLM directors. While the engineers didn't get the Fyra going, the policy makers got off the rails. We received a nice and comprehensive letter from the Secretary of State in response to the report; of course we did not expect otherwise. It promises to improve gradually and neatly on a lot of points: the Chamber is better and more timely and we are trying to get fast trains done, all things full of praise and success. I have some questions about this. On the reliability of ICT, I mention it as a "motherhood and apple pie" statement that "disruptions can be traced back to the use of equipment and personnel, infrastructure failures on conventional rail, external causes such as wind on the bridge of the Dutch Deep and to causes that lie at the intersection of NS, ProRail and Infraspeed." Then I'm thinking, what wasn't the point? It probably wasn't the enthusiastic commitment of the ordinary people who work at the NS, but you don't get much of what you can improve out of such a sentence. I appreciate the effort to improve, but I assume that we need a deeper analysis in order to get to the head. So is the ILT. With a cultural change alone you probably won't get there, it's also the Dutch view on how to control it. We have had similar debates following the Moerdijk disaster: what kind of control should there be? Should solutions be considered, should there be strong enforcement, should you have people on the ground check things, or should the right certificates be present? You can blame the ILT a lot, but she did what she was asked to do at the time, namely to check that the certificates are correct. So is my question about three strikes out. The way I read it, it's "three strikes out maybe, sometimes partly and then maybe out." I appreciate that the adopted motion is being carried out, but three strikes out as the Americans apply it is heart-moist, without any pardon and at once. People go to jail for smoking a joint at their third offense for 10 years. I certainly wouldn't argue for that. I am glad that the Minister and the Secretary of State deal with this policy, but a little explanation would be appreciated by my group. What's next? That is the question that should be at the heart of this debate. I concluded it all after fifteen minutes: unambiguous, consistent and long-term steering from the Lower House becomes incredibly complicated. On the one hand you have the VVD that says: everything would be much better if we were to privatise the entire trade. On the other hand, the SP is still in favour of fully nationalising and merging the railway company. I already mentioned the report from the First Chamber: Disconnected? It may be boring and sound and not populist, but it contains very useful recommendations. It rattles the roles apart and makes a strong recommendation on what to do in privatisations. An example: provide one coordinating ruler and not more than one who can interfere with it and take care of one steering sg. I wonder what these two directors think of these recommendations, for example. There's more in there. The question is how to safeguard the public interest. That is said from the left to the right: the finances are controlled, we also have to look after the state treasury, but how do you guarantee that public interest? In the report there are a few proposals for this: an execution test and an impact study. I don't know if it's been looked at further, if there's really something underneath or if it's a new set of nice terminology. As other spokesmen have said, as a Chamber, we should also separate our three roles: co-legislator, controller and representative of the people. When are we going to be a representative of the people and say: 'President, this cannot be done'? I also made jokes here: you have to take your sleeping bag and your thermos with you in winter, because you won't get there. I share Mr Smaling's concerns. My personal observation is that in the six years that I am a Member of Parliament, the Amsterdam-Den Haag connection has become considerably worse. I miss trains a lot more often, I'm much more often than I try to work on my iPad a little bit more and the faster Benelux connection is gone. That also leads me to a more specific question about now. The part of the high-speed line from Rotterdam is somewhat exploited, as you read in the letter, but it was originally intended that the hsl from Amsterdam to Brussels would be fast. What happened on the first piece: from Amsterdam via Schiphol to Rotterdam, or The Hague if you want to go there? Is that first piece being used up enough? How often do trains run there? Is it true that, as I've been told by someone near the railroad, Intercity has to really start talking about NS and that's why the northern hsl route is hardly used, because otherwise NS competes itself away? Would that be used, do you have a faster journey there? I'd like to get some clarity on that. If that is true, how do we manage to make better use of the first piece of the hsl? International train connections are an excellent alternative to short flights. But suppose you fly from Ottawa to Schiphol Airport and then you want to go to Antwerp. My group would very much like to see rail transport on such an international flight regulated fantasticly. That is a recurring point from GroenLinks. As it happens, an approved motion from my hand from 2013 is about that. I left it on my bench, so I can't pass it on right now. You can book a flight to Rome very quickly, but it's complicated if you want to take the train there. That's why we wanted to make such a fast connection, the KLM wanted to get in and we were so busy with the railway tunnel and now with that station. The hub function of Schiphol can be better used with connecting fast trains. I would like to hear what the current thoughts are about this and what is still possible. It was one of the reasons why my group was so enthusiastic about the Fyra. D66 has already asked a lot about the market exploration. I, too, would like information on this. Where are we with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u85	Are you working on a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u86	I have a few comments to make, but I would like to start by answering Mrs De Boer's questions. Whatever you say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u87	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u88	If they fly all the way to Amsterdam, I hope that they will go to Amsterdam instead of going straight to Antwerp, but that aside. The cabinet has said: from Schiphol via The Hague we take too long; we go directly from Amsterdam to Rotterdam. I think what you are asking for is already met in the cabinet response, or am I mistaken? Should there be additional more transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u89	My question is whether the assumption is correct that the NS will place a direct competitor of himself when he drives both over the high-speed line and directly sets up Intercity, which is mainly about the regular rail. My question is what the frequency and travel time gains could be. The VVD strongly supports the hub function of Schiphol, not only of Schiphol as arrival gate for tourists who then enter Amsterdam. There are other objections to this, but that is another debate. If that's what you want and you, like GroenLinks, don't want all those people to fly to Belgium, you have to have good additional train transport. That was also the original reason why the KLM joined this project. For that, you need to be able to get through from Schiphol Airport very quickly. If you have to go from Schiphol to Amsterdam first, from Amsterdam to The Hague and from The Hague to Rotterdam and then to Antwerp, the tourist says: do me a flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about the HSL-South. I think it's being used more intensively. At least that's what the cabinet response says. I think Mrs Van Tongeren means the original journey from Schiphol to The Hague and from Amsterdam to The Hague. Is she afraid there's not enough offer there right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u91	The original Fyra did not go to The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u92	In my opinion, The Hague was indeed connected to it in the first plans, but that was a long time ago. It is a well-known point of GroenLinks, to see if such a hsl can be an alternative to short intra-European flights. The faster that train is, the more likely it is that people don't get on another plane, but catch the train. The NS has now placed an offer. In principle, what is Mrs Van Tongeren's position on D66's proposal on timing? We have been talking about interrupting to see if other parties could offer a faster offer for the traveller, making it even more attractive, for example, to take the train instead of that domestic flight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u93	I don't know if it's just the speed. I think the booking convenience and the question what to do with the luggage also play a role. If you take a connecting flight, the luggage will be transferred to Brussels. If you want to take the train, even when you're traveling first class, you just have to drag your bags yourself. I don't think there's even any baggage service possible. I think there should be three things. With regard to the specific question: I have not yet heard any reason why sub-contracting should not be possible and why parties should be wrong. I think that was the solution of the cabinet. I am not in favour of opening up existing concessions. I am in favour of peace on track and long-term clarity, even though I personally do not think it is the best solution. I think that as a Chamber, we really need to give the NS the room to make a decent offer. I would prefer not to start again with sub-providers on this issue. Sorry, maybe I'm not saying it clearly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u94	I think Mrs Van Tongeren is now saying two different things about sub-providers, but this aside. For argument's sake: we don't do it until 2025. Then there would be a possibility to have the different offers side by side. The question is whether Mrs Van Tongeren really believes in these faster connections or not. The thing with the suitcases and the like, it's true now. Also with the NS. I fully agree that we should try to improve that. However, the question is whether she really believes that the faster connection than people keeps off the plane. If that is the case, there would also be a reason to decide to really try to make that connection as soon as possible, by whoever it is. Why, then, would Mrs Van Tongeren not support that for argument's sake:
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u95	I do not think that multiple providers side by side make it better for the traveller, so that there are several transport companies on that same high-speed route, where you have the Thalys so late, so late an Arriva train, so late one of Deutsche Bahn and then also at the entire hour one of the NS. I think that's the worst possible situation, because you can't leave with subscriptions, and if you miss one, you can't go with the next, because it belongs to another provider. This seems to me to be the least desirable situation for the short term, but also for the longer term. I think it's useful that the railroad is really thought of from the train traveller and that means that you can get on all trains. We have all traveled abroad by train. At the stations in England, for example, you have to run back and forth to quickly change your ticket if you want to travel with another carrier, and I would find that absolutely undesirable for the Dutch track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u96	There are now also several providers on the hsl. We now have the Intercity direct, the Benelux train and the Thalys. If Mrs Van Tongeren thinks that is undesirable, does she think that one of those three should be removed because it is so undesirable that there are several providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u97	We are now engaged in a rather philosophical piece of debate, because this was about what I would like to do in 2025. GroenLinks has not agreed to the full liberalisation of the market. We have always had serious doubts about this, which we did not think was a good starting point, but I also said in the debate on the Chicken Committee's report that it is not our solution to reverse it once you are there. That was Mrs Van Veldhoven's first question. She asked if you should reverse it now, and then GroenLinks says: no, you shouldn't. We do not think it is clear, not even on the main network, to put several different providers next to each other. I see, among other things, a timetable problem, a collegiality problem and a problem for the citizen, namely that he may be on one train, but not on the other, or only when he pays extra, or that he misses his train and cannot be on the next. That certainly doesn't make the busy Dutch track any better. In another country with different distances and other population and transport numbers, we might be able to do so, but for the Netherlands we have said quite consistently that we do not think this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u99	Otherwise, we will discuss this with the wine we are going to drink for Mrs Van Veldhoven's birthday, because I see that she is not yet satisfied with my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u100	It's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u101	The President is also invited, of course. In addition to the previous point I mentioned, the communication between Parliament and the cabinet has gone wrong. The Secretary of State also says in her letter that this should have been different. It writes that the Chamber has been too brightly informed, placed before facts, has been misled and sometimes deliberately not informed. My assumption is that this is because, among other things, we ourselves have not kept these three roles apart well and that this has not been clear from time to time with the rulers, also because we have been very busy with alternatingly putting them at a huge distance, getting close to us and putting them away again. That doesn't help, as I indicated. I also talked about the ILT. Then I guess I did ask all my questions to the cabinet. I hope that we will learn from this with united forces, from the left to the right, and that we will do better. I also very much hope that rail links will become easier to book and better connect for all those who want to travel by train in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u102	I call Mr Hoogland on behalf of the PvdA. Mr Van Helvert, you will be there afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr. Chairman. First, I'll give the viewers at home and everyone who listens along the way through the beautiful app a short summary of what happened. Then I have a question to the cabinet on five points. Financial interests have been central to the Fyra file, and the traveller had checked. Almost everything that could have gone wrong also went wrong. The State proved to be divided to the bone and failed in the procurement of the transport and in the management of the NS. The NS itself appeared to be primarily interested in its own dominant position. The Italian train builder was unable to build proper trains. The inspection, the ILT, did not check them in practice. What about politics? Politics let all this happen. So far, the summary. I would like to go over the future transport of HSL today, the planning of the rail sector, the position of ProRail in that sector, the strategy of the NS, and I apologise to Mr Van Helvert, but I have one sentence to add and finally the inspections of trains. First of all, I come to the future transport on the HSL. The Committee of Inquiry's recommendation is to improve the transport value for passengers on the HSL. My question to the Secretary of State is what she has done about it between the publication of the report and today. Is there a difference between the alternative offer that, if I recall correctly, was sent to the Chamber in 2013 after the Fyra stopped driving and the number of trains that are now in the NS offer? I have received so many of those beautiful cards with offer that it is no longer clear to me what was offered then and now. How does the Secretary of State assess the chances of achieving substantial savings in time together with the Belgians? Are there any possibilities for that? What is the state of play regarding the lifting of the reservation obligation and the possibility of subscriptions in international transport? What also affects passenger transport on the hsl but perhaps not only comes from the Fyra report, is the wind problem at the bridge over the Hollands Diep. There is no construction error, according to the Secretary of State, but the warning system indicates much more than expected that rail transport is not possible. How does she rhyme these things with each other? Then I come to the order of the rail sector. The PvdA is pleased that the government is investigating a number of scenarios about the future of the railway. It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of this choice of organisation. We look forward to these scenarios with interest, but if the Secretary of State asked us to do so, she might not do so. NS and ProRail would go back together. But I say to everyone here in the Chamber that is just as important to look at the results of these scenarios with open eyes. Otherwise, that whole exercise would be pointless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you for the appeal of the Labour Party to look at the various scenarios with open eyes. Mr Hoogland said that we like to look at it with open eyes. Despite the biased view, it is nice that the PvdA wants to look at this openly, but is she opposed in principle to making ProRail part of that discussion? In other words, does the PvdA consider it wise to make ProRail, in whatever form, part of the Ministry before the investigation is completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u105	Exactly this point falls under one of the headings I mentioned at the beginning. That's the cup that's coming up. I would also like to read that text now. That saves speaking time. Although I'm not the longest of dust, I'd like to do that gesture. The PvdA takes note of my words - with interest knowledge of the step to place ProRail closer to the Ministry. This is a first step in making the rail sector more public again. The Chamber cannot blame the PvdA for its support, but it has a question to ask: can the Secretary of State indicate why ProRail should not remain for example and should therefore be included in the department, especially in the light of what has been said about it from the rail sector? I'd like to wait for the answer to that. I must honestly say that, in the light of the vision of the future that we see before us, we are not going to oppose this step, if only because this step is in line with the idea that rail transport is a public task. I continue my story with the strategy of the NS. The PvdA agrees with the choice of the NS to focus on its core task of transporting people on the main rail network, the stations and the door-to-door journey. We do question the choice to remain active abroad, because what risks do they pose? I also ask that question to the cabinet, but someone else in the cabinet is responsible for it. So I ask the Minister what these risks are. How does this choice relate to the desire to focus on the main rail network of the Netherlands? I'm gonna go check on the trains. According to the Committee of Inquiry, the ILT has performed an unacceptable minimalist role. The Committee also states that the ILT should play a critical role. However, the new ILT multi-annual plan states that there are sharp choices to be made, whatever that may be; it is a bit of a process remark and a "trust unless." The question to the Secretary of State is whether it can indicate, preferably as concretely as possible, not only procedurally, how this critical role that the ILT of the Committee of Inquiry is supposed to fulfil is taking shape. The Cabinet states that it aims to ensure a uniform elaboration of European rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest among railway inspection bodies. This is a technical point, but it is important to us. It is important to ensure that other interests, such as financial interests and business interests, do not prevail over the interests of customers and travellers. My question to the cabinet is therefore whether it shares the view of the PvdA that the Dutch commitment must be to ensure that the ban is applied at organisational level, so that the inspections that are taking place can actually be independent. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry, its chairman, all its members and staff. They've done a lot of work and provided us with many hours of work fun. I wouldn't know how to fill out the next recess, because there's not another report like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u106	I hear you're falling into a hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr. Chairman. We got this report on October 28th. At that time we had to keep quiet until 12:00. By the way, we could quickly read that in the media, before noon. In the report on the Fyra, The traveler in the cold, a number of people get quite a twist. I will not say that we all have butter on our heads, but the Dutch Railways, the Cabinets over all these years, with all the directors who were in it and had to deal with it, and at least the House of Representatives. Today we're talking about that. I do value to say in advance that this is about the hsl. We do not escape the fact that you sometimes have to ask some critical questions to the cabinet, to ourselves, but also to the Dutch Railways. I would just like to make it clear that this is separate from the satisfaction of all the good things that are happening at the NS and from the satisfaction of all the employees of the Dutch Railways. But we're talking here about a line where the board, the high peak of the NS, has done a number of things that can't be done. We need to be able to say what we think about this. I would like to say that in advance, because it is a difference. It's a difference if you're angry with the people who bring many people to work or to their family or friends every day, or if you're angry about stepping up that the board, the House of Representatives or the Cabinet has set up. That is what I wanted to say first. If you read what is then described in that report and what is the reaction of the cabinet, you will initially see: the traveller stands on one. That's what everybody actually thinks. Everyone says the traveler's on one. The Dutch Railways say that, in my opinion, the cabinet does, perhaps in other words, and the House of Representatives considers that to be very important. That is true, because the ambition with the Fyra was at the time: we want the traveller to be able to make such a beautiful, fast journey in a fast and affordable way. If, at the moment, when this Fyra does not appear to be driving, we look at what we have decided in all this time and what is now, then we can only say that the ambition of that time has not been achieved at all. It seems as if we are increasingly accepting that this ambition is not being met at the time. I am a member of the Benelux Parliament. From the Benelux Parliament we invited the Dutch Railways and SNCB to come and tell us what went wrong between the Netherlands and Belgium, between the NS and SNCB. The management of the Dutch Railways was very honest there. She said: that traveler is actually very satisfied now, let us not cause such a panic because we have an alternative for people with little time, namely the Thalys, and we have an alternative for people with little money, namely the train that is currently driving there. That's what the management of the Dutch Railways said there. If that is the ambition the NS now has, then something is really wrong. What I'm telling you now isn't something ten years ago. No, it's from last month. This was said in Brussels, in the Benelux Parliament. If that is the ambition, then we must appeal to the Dutch Railways and say that we find something else and that we wanted something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u108	I cannot escape asking Mr Van Helvert the same question I asked Mrs Van Veldhoven earlier. A year and a half ago, we had a debate about including the hsl in the concession to the NS. That was the moment when we could choose to give the hsl to the NS for ten years or not to do so. I then tabled a motion not to give the hsl to the NS, but to spend it separately and then to see if the NS would be the best way out of it or not. You didn't support that motion. A very vague motion has been tabled, though. I have just looked her up by your party and D66, but it did not say explicitly: do not give that line to the NS. Why didn't you support our motion then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u109	It was a little more than a year and a half ago, because I was already in the Chamber when the debate you were talking about was held before I was in the Chamber. Anyway, apart from that: the CDA didn't agree to that because when the thought was that it was all well tendered and we didn't know what we were able to read in the report of the Fyra survey. So that good procurement was not the case, but we assumed that it was. If you ask me if my group, with a critical look at itself, would now again advise me to do so, I would say: no. Why not? In November 2013, Sander de Rouwe filed a motion asking for other parties to take part on that track. Looking back, I would like to tell you that I would no longer be advising my group on the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u110	Above all, it is important that the NS was already clear about its ambition back then. That wasn't news. Even then, the NS said she wanted to do what she's doing right now. We knew that back then. Then the Chamber said, "Give it to the NS." And now, one and a half years later, the Chamber suddenly says: it has to be very different. That's impossible, isn't it? You can't handle a company like the NS like that, can you? You can't give the NS what she wanted very clearly on the one hand and say now that it's not enough on the other? That's what we knew back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u111	The report of the Fyra survey makes it very clear that the Court should be more straightforward on that point. It also says that the lobby of the management of the Dutch Railways towards the Chamber is often very strong. You can see that at the very beginning, at the tender. A lot of parties then say that they want it to be publicly tendered, but it is then the Lower House that puts pressure on the cabinet to give the NS an advantage. You can see that from the beginning, but it comes back more often. If Mr Madlener asks what point the Chamber, including our group, should look at itself, then I say that we should dare to make such an assessment more independently. When I look back now, I say that the November 2013 De Rouwe motion was a good one. I'd like to draw that line, too. I'll look into that, too. Mr Madlener is quite right about that. I told you, that ambition has been abandoned. That is why I would like to ask the cabinet The Chamber is not directly about the Dutch Railways, but about the cabinet, which is a shareholder and a concession holder, what is the state of affairs with regard to the ambition we had with the Fyra. I assume that we still have the ambition to have an affordable and fast line to Brussels and back. How is the cabinet going to appeal more to the NS? So the alternative that we now have is far from what we had in mind at the time. They are less trains and much slower trains. In response to the survey, the cabinet is now proposing a market exploration. It is nice that the Secretary of State would like to take a broader look, but we know in advance that it will be very difficult to get something meaningful out of it, at least in the way the cabinet is proposing it now. I would like a response from the cabinet to that. We also asked the ACM, the Authority for Consumer and Market, this morning what it was like. We see that the ACM is also struggling tremendously with this. This morning, she came no further than to say: legally speaking, what the cabinet wants. Yeah, that had to come up again, that it shouldn't be legal. But when you ask if anything comes out, they say: we as ACM-direction of competition don't have that much experience with competition. That's what the ACM said! I see the Minister of Finance looking at this: that can't be true, can it? But it was said! So they cannot answer that at the time. So how can you be a private company... Yes, you laugh, chairman, but it was said this morning! It was said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u112	This calls for a response, I understand. Mr. Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u113	Yeah, even if it's just to make one thing right. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Helvert, in Italian, on the sprezzatura with which he stands. It's fantastic, but let's keep the ACM out of this discussion. We have asked the ACM a number of political questions and if you ask the ACM political questions, she cannot answer them. In the field of competition, e.g. explaining how competition law works and what could happen if the Competition Act is infringed, the ACM has done its job properly. And that's what Mr Van Helvert hears from someone who is not necessarily a fan of the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u114	Then the ACM has a fan. I also think the ACM is a top association, or company. Is it a company? No, it's not. But it's about what's a political question. I also hear the President say a few times: this is a political question. However, we are here in the House of Representatives and I believe that political questions here are not prohibited in advance. However, I asked the Authority Consumer & Market: "Dear Authority Consumer & Market, you know a lot about competition, you know a lot about the market and you see many examples. Can you indicate if this will be a meaningful exercise?" I don't think that's a political question. I don't think so, but well, there may be differences of opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u115	I see that Mr Houwers wishes to intervene, but I shall first give the floor to Mr Hoogland for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u116	Yeah, just to finish it off in a serious way. It's not about being a fan of the ACM or not. It is of course a difficult position for the ACM. That is why I am somewhat protecting the ACM as an institute here. It cannot defend itself here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u117	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u118	The point is that the ACM, if we have competition questions, is well able to answer them. If we ask ourselves whether something is meaningful or not, we have a conversation with the cabinet. We can differ on that. I therefore believe that the ACM has done its job well by explaining what is and is not possible in the field of competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u119	Just before that point, I'd have walked here. I distance myself from what Mr Van Helvert says here, because I think he is wronging the ACM. They have indicated what their knowledge is and we have used it, partly at the invitation of Mr Van Helvert. I don't think it's right for him to talk about the ACM this way. He certainly doesn't do that on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u120	Indeed, I do not speak on behalf of Mr Houwers. Nor have I said anything bad about the ACM at all. I said the ACM has a problem with that, too. That is what we saw in the answer, and that can be said. It was a public meeting; everyone could see that. The quote I just gave is just a literal quote. I don't think we're so cramped...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u121	It's also about interpreting answers, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u122	...have to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u123	No, but it is also a bit common to deal with people who are not present themselves or with institutions that we have guests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u124	Yes. But when I say that the Authority has a problem with something, can you not say that I do not handle it carefully? I think we can say that here and we should not be so cramped about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u126	In any case, we can see that several parties are having difficulty looking at whether or not something useful is coming out of it. I would like to discuss this with the Secretary of State and perhaps with the Minister. How can you ask an ordinary company, such as Veolia, Connexion, Arriva or Syntus, to suggest ideas on how the monopolist NS............................................................................................................................................................ Then you know in advance that they are going to say that we cannot require them to use their knowledge, skills and time to do so. That is why I ask the cabinet how this market exploration can be useful. In the end, we will have to achieve that ambition of the Fyra. You can see that this ambition has actually been adjusted more and more in the hope that the management of the Dutch Railways will manage to organise it, something that has not been achieved so far after fifteen years. That is what the De Rouwe motion, which was tabled at the time, is about. This time, Mrs Van Veldhoven has prepared a motion on our behalf, which states that we will be able to seize the next possibility of contracting and allow other parties to take part. Mind you, I'll say it again, on the hsl. It is not about the main rail network, not about the regional networks; it is only about one line and one train: the hsl. I'll ask the cabinet what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr Van Helvert says that it is only about one line, the hsl. I understand that, but it's integrated into the main rail system right now. How does he intend to deal with this in the light of his proposal to use that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u128	Just like at the time the cabinet with PvdA and VVD, which suggested to subpoena the line. Of course it's not easy. No one here says it's easy. Track business is complicated. But I'm not in favour of picking up all the bears on the road to make sure there's no change. There can be tendered. A line can be tendered. The regional rail can be tendered and in most places that goes well. We also have an example where this did not go well in the Netherlands, but a line that used to be part of the main rail network can be tendered. And how exactly is that going, Mr Hoogland? We hire a minister and secretary of state to arrange this together with the Dutch railways and other carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u129	It's always nice to be able to see the consequences when you make a proposal. At the moment there are a number of connections in that line with domestic transport, with The Hague, Eindhoven, etc. You cut that line off and you spend it. That can have an impact on travelers. Mr Van Helvert has to know for himself whether he is blowing hot or cold on my question; the aim is just to get a little insight into what his proposal means. Then we can also judge whether we will vote for it or against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u130	Then I may have misunderstood the question. Our proposal is, of course, to do so only at the first possible moment. That's from 2025, when the concession expires. So something has to happen. Then we have to change something. That is why we say: do so at least in the first legal opportunity. By the way, if you want to get that right, you're gonna have to start so slow. If we wait for a decision to be taken on whether we are going to contract something, we will soon be back to one, two or three years before the end of a term and we will say: oh, it is very close, let us continue on this path. That is why D66 and the CDA in our proposal opt for the procurement after 2024. I've heard before that the VVD can join.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u131	I am still looking for Mr Van Helvert's reasoning behind that clearly expressed preference for contracting that line. Now there is the following package: a 15 minute service to Rotterdam, every half hour a train continues to Breda and one per hour goes on to Belgium. The intention is that we also get a branch to Eindhoven in Breda. We have trained drivers who can ride that line for a great deal of money. And then I don't understand, with the knowledge about the 2001 tender, why it prefers to live with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u132	The drivers in the Netherlands are and remain well trained. If a line from the main rail network is taken over by a regional carrier, in almost all cases the staff is simply taken over. I think that's even mandatory. Knowledge of well-trained drivers is therefore not lost. In fact, I wouldn't even want that. That's not the danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u133	Of course, there's already a lot of money in it. There's been a huge investment in what we're all about to do in the future. It seems to me a good package and reasonably feasible. There are a lot of difficulties with those HSL-South that are not attributable to the NS. I gotta say, I'm kind of stuck with a feeling after all. Is it still Limburg kinnesinne about that issue of Abellio that Mr Van Helvert is playing here? Otherwise, I cannot feel his conclusion that we must now make this tender error again, I say, with emphasis, which we have already made in the past. We have an amount of that I put you there in the NS' bid. That was so absurd that all the misery described in the survey report is to be borne in mind. Why are we gonna do that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u134	Ah, that's the question: why are we going to tender it? Contracting would be wrong. That's another question. I don't always think that's wrong. There is a lot of procurement and there is very often market forces and not everywhere. The CDA is very clear in this: the main rail network is located at the Dutch Railways. We see no reason, if the Dutch Railways do their job well, not to give it to the Dutch Railways. In the case of regional carriers, we see this differently. That is what we are in favour of market forces. That is what we made clear in the last amendment to the Railway Act. I think I was just a member of parliament back then. At that time we said: at the HSL you should see if other parties might be able to deliver a better performance than the Dutch Railways. I'm not just making that up. That is because the Dutch Railways have been trying for fifteen years to have a decent train run there for little money and that has not been possible for 15 years. We can't deny that. For that one international line, we prefer to spend it from 2024 onwards. I'm gonna be honest with you about this. In the survey report we can read what advice the Committee of Inquiry gives on how to deal with organization. But if we look closely at what happened on every page, then it is not so much that a tender is blamed. That's some kind of stick to hit. However, it is the attitude of a lot of people, directors of the Dutch Railways and also cabinet members, who have not been good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u135	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u136	Then you can change structures all you want, but we need to address each other at attitude. The way of bluffing, which the management of the Dutch Railways has used, is simply not possible. No matter what structure there is, whether the NS is together with ProRail, is separate from ProRail or becomes a company under the Ministry, you don't. That's attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u137	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u138	Before the interruption came, I wanted to go to the ILT, the Inspection Environment and Transport. It also gets a bit out of the pan of the Committee of Inquiry. Wipe is an understatement. I've seen some of those interviews. The interrogation of the director of the ILT shocked me. It was actually bizarre to note that we have an ILT to monitor railway safety independently and that it gave approval to those trains. The Committee of Inquiry concludes that the system of certification and authorisation does not sufficiently guarantee the safety of trains. The cabinet wrote in response to this: the cabinet endorses the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry that security should be paramount. The survey report states that the safety of trains is not adequately guaranteed by the current system of certification and authorisation. The reaction of the cabinet is: we endorse the Committee of Inquiry's conclusion that security must be paramount. Okay, that's a conclusion that a lot of people draw, I guess. But does the government also agree with the Committee of Inquiry's remark that it is not sufficiently guaranteed in the current system of certification and admission? Because that's not a nuance difference, it's a big difference. In fact, the cabinet says: we agree with that and the ILT is working on it, so calm down, it is working on it. In Limburg they say: no panic. I find this a little too easy, because this is about safety. The first motion I tabled as a Member of Parliament was about the ILT and the way of checking the ILT. Who controls the ILT? The CDA would like the cabinet with the ILT to inform the Chamber about how work is being done, what the state of affairs is and where we want to end up. That's not clear at the moment. I'm getting to the position of ProRail. The cabinet is actually very clear in that: we do not know in what form, but ProRail is getting closer to the Ministry or under the Ministry. To some extent, I appreciate the Secretary of State's commitment to being able to address ProRail easily. We have had a lot of discussions about ProRail with the Secretary of State, not so much with this one as with the previous one. We have constantly addressed the Secretary of State in the sense of: do something now, take it. It was clear it didn't go well there. The Secretary of State has done a number of things. First of all, there was a new director, after some discussion. This was him, this was a good one, the cabinet insisted on this man. When he came, he also raised a lot of confidence. I had every confidence in it and I had no reason to doubt it. ProRail's performance in the past year was also very good. But the cabinet still brings ProRail under the ministry. A very good director is being brought in, but a year later he becomes chief official of an agency of the Ministry. That's what the CDA thinks is a very strange move, but first I'd like to pay a compliment to the cabinet. I've been doing that a lot lately. The cabinet wants to develop four scenarios for the planning of the rail system. The CDA's gonna love that. Okay, cabinet, let's get you into that. It was more or less a mission of the Committee of Inquiry. The cabinet says: that's what we're going to do. But that does not fit in with the fact that ProRail is now being transferred to the Ministry in advance. We think that's a very strange move. Our idea is: hold off on taking a decision on ProRail until those four scenarios have been worked out and we have discussed them. If you're already sweeping ProRail under the Ministry, you're sneaking out a scenario or two. Secretary of State, we understand your efforts, but first examine those scenarios and then decide on ProRail. Make ProRail an integral part of the discussion on railway planning. In this context, I also asked Mr Hoogland of the Labour Party. He said: in principle, we have sympathy for the idea, but if you're going to investigate four scenarios, you don't have to carry out part of it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u139	Before I give Mrs De Boer the floor for an interruption, I say that they must be really short. The same applies to the answers, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u140	I would like to hear what scenarios would not be possible if a decision on ProRail is taken now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u141	I don't have the scenarios on me, but I think it's scenario 1. I'll be right back. A reproach from the Committee of Inquiry is that the Chamber barks, but does not bite through. We're back there now. We can now decide what we are going to do again. Like the VVD we can say: we all had butter on our heads, we have all been naughty and we do nothing else. That does not seem to me to be the right approach. If we really want to put the threat together and see an alternative, then after 15 years of trying it is really time for more eyes on the high-speed line. That is why, together with D66, we will be calling for tenders. If necessary, we shall table a motion to that effect. We are also considering a motion on a good overview of the ILT and a motion not to rule on ProRail as long as the scenarios have not been selected. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry for the great work it has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u142	I have one short question. I found somewhere that the CDA young people have adopted a motion to prevent further liberalisation of the railways. Furthermore, CDA MEP Corien Wortmann has played a major role in the not entirely refurbishing of the European rail network. What CDA am I dealing with now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u143	A painful question. We almost never get it! The CDA is a popular party and every feather in every wing of the party is equally beautiful and equally sweet to me. That certainly applies to the CDJA. I would like to say to Mr Smaling that the CDA is very clear about the layout of the track. We believe that the main rail network should be awarded directly to the Dutch Railways. If the Dutch Railways simply do their job well, we have no reason to change anything. We are also in favour of public procurement on the regional rail network. On the HSL we say: because after fifteen years of trying it has still not been done, it is time for other eyes to see if it can't be done better. With that CDA Mr. Smaling has something to do with yesterday, today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u144	I now give the floor to Mr Bruins. That is contrary to the order of the list, but I can tell you that it happened in good consultation with Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr President, thank you to Mr Madlener for changing positions. The parliamentary survey has painfully shown how many mistakes have been made in the decision-making process on the construction and transport of HSL-South, the problems with the Fyra and the imminent bankruptcy of HSA. In the end, the traveller was literally in the cold, as the Committee of Inquiry also stated in the title of its report. Previous speakers have already said a great deal about the role of the various ministers and the failure of the NS and the inspection. However, we must also look at our role as Chamber. In the words of the committee, the House of Representatives has often barked but not bitten. Sometimes it's been bitten wrong, too. Not so long ago, a majority of the Chamber wanted the Benelux train back, but it had to pass The Hague. Today we have to conclude that this is not sensible, both in terms of transport demand and operating costs and the undesirable effects on the main rail network's timetable. As a new Member of Parliament on this dossier, I would like to look ahead today. How do we get a good rail product for the traveller as soon as possible? According to the Christian Union, the traveler must be at the forefront, but I will start with a number of questions about the process chosen by the Secretary of State. Carefulness is fine, but does it have to be with a market exploration? It sounds tough to see if other carriers can achieve better performance on the hsl, but you only do that if you really want to start contracting? I wonder whether parties such as Arriva will show the back of their tongues in such exploration, because they will want to save cleverness and knowledge for a real tender. Then there is money to be made. What happens if the NS takes on the suboptimal improvement proposals and keeps doing it itself? Then we don't have the optimal product yet. On the other hand, the ball will soon become part of the NS if the market players bet too high and the NS don't come out with them. In short, this plan will be very difficult for the independent party that has to do the market exploration. Then the sudden decision to organize ProRail differently. The Christian Union has been one of the first to call for ProRail, as well as Rijkswaterstaat, to be closer to the Ministry. But why this proposal at the moment? After all, the new top man is currently working hard to get the broom through the organization. ProRail's share in the Fyra debacle is also minimal. Construction and management of the hsl was and is located at Infraspeed. Why should we not integrate Infraspeed into ProRail, so that there is another administrator, just like Keyrail for the Betuweroute is also integrated into ProRail? That would have been a much more logical proposal at the moment. Even if ProRail becomes a public organisation, good guidance by the Ministry is still needed with knowledge. And that's exactly the element I'm worried about. After all, the analysis of supervisory relations points to gaps in the direction of the Ministry and I fear that this also applies to the direction of the NS. Are we going to start the discussion on the right side? The Secretary of State is going to investigate the future planning on the track, with all options open, even merging NS with ProRail. With another form of ProRail, the Christian Union believes that we should not anticipate this. Whatever choice we make, the traveller must be at the centre. I'm missing that element in the Secretary of State's ProRail story. I'll get back to the hsl. For the ChristianUnion it is central that the traveller should get a good product on the hsl. Unfortunately, from that perspective, I have to conclude that the current proposal is not sufficient, and that does not require any market exploration. In the coming years, NS will be able to merge the Benelux train with the Intercity directly to Rotterdam. NS thus saves a lot of time, about 16 hours a day per direction, which does not involve additional train services, but additional revenues and lower costs. The Secretary of State wants to skim this profit to catch the 50 million windshield hit on the bridge over the Hollandsch Diep. That is what the Christian Union considers to be the opposite world. For example, the traveller pays for the errors in the design of a bridge and the traveller gets less trains in return. The fact is that the timetable in 2018 is better than the one in 2016, but still not in line with the original offer of 2001, especially when it comes to cross-border connections. What does the traveler want? The traveller wants to go from Amsterdam to Brussels as easily as he can go from Amsterdam to Groningen. That means: a fair price, fast and frequent. None of these three requirements meet the Secretary of State's plan. First of all, in our opinion, the supplement to the HSL should be definitively deleted. The hsl is now just part of the main rail network. The surcharge is customer unfriendly, and also from the perspective of travel time cannot be justified. That's number one: a fair price. Second of all, hurry. We must choose the fastest route and fastest equipment. As far as equipment is concerned, the cabinet response is simply unclear. I would like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State that the new equipment will not only drive to Breda but also to Brussels from 2021. Third, frequent. There must be an intercity Amsterdam-Brussels once every two hours, without reservation. That is what the traveller wants in a Europe without borders, and that is the public interest for which the Secretary of State must fight. If that means that the expensive Thalys trains, for which you also have to reserve, are going to run a little less often, then so be it. Long-distance transport is an open market. I would like to mention a few more details, Mr President. When it comes to the fastest route: skip the route to Brussels not only The Hague, but also Breda, Noorderkempen and Zaventem for half of the trains. That saves more than half an hour, easy to realize. Finally, I come to the integration of the hsl with the main rail network. Now that there is a market exploration, there are huge opportunities for passenger growth. It is nice that there are fast trains running over the hsl Den Haag-Eindhoven, but in the past many more beautiful connections have been mentioned by NS, such as to Almere, Vlissingen and also between Antwerp and, to the east, Eindhoven. How's it going with these lovely plans? We're not gonna wait until 2025 to seize this kind of wonderful opportunity for fast connections, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr Madlener had another question for you, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u147	I'm asking a question about the fair price. The reality on the track is of course this: if you had to charge the actual ticket price, no one would get on the train anymore. If you charge a very low ticket price, the taxpayer will pay those costs via a detour. Does Mr Bruins mean fair to the train traveller or fair to the taxpayer? What's fair now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u148	I thank Mr Madlener for this question and for the opportunity to clarify it. By honest, I mean the price compared to the rest of the main rail network. The surcharge is currently only available between Schiphol Airport and Rotterdam, and I do not think it can be defended that this surcharge is maintained if the current surcharge-free Benelux train is merged with the IC direct Amsterdam-Rotterdam, which is now subject to surcharge. The extra charge is also hard to defend given the fact that in the coming years there will be a load of material for 160 km/h. That is only a very small difference with the regular equipment of 140 km/h. Moreover, the vast majority of the travel time gain is not due to the higher speed of an hsl, but because you travel a much shorter journey through the tunnel under the Green Heart. Then it's just part of the main rail network and it should get a similar price. The payment of a surcharge is then an obstacle for travellers. For the feeling of every traveler it must be an ordinary train; that is my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u149	But that ordinary train runs on very special infrastructure, which is built for 7 billion and is intended for 300 km/h and for very expensive trains. If you would then charge the price of a regular train ticket, then the taxpayer will, of course, pay the rest. Does Mr Bruins think that a normal train ticket of 300 km/h should be sent to Brussels? Or is he saying that the consequence of his words is that those trains can run a little less fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u150	I think a normal train should have a normal price. As long as you don't drive fast, you can't charge a supplement. Moreover, the plan is such that there is in fact less service provision. So money is also being saved. This could be reflected in the price, so that there will not be too much of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u151	Mr. Chairman. I just want to take a look back. I've been in politics quite a long time. In the 1990s, I began to take an interest in it. If you look at this file carefully, you'll come all the way back to 1996. That was the time when, of course, European integration and the European project went into full acceleration after the Maastricht Treaty. The purple cabinet of Kok decided to build the high-speed line. I remember that was a huge prestige issue; the Netherlands had to be connected to that new HSL network with the French Thalys. It would be a kind of European network. We weren't supposed to take the plane anymore. We were supposed to take the train. That was the idea. I can even remember tickets from the Netherlands with and without that train. Without it, it seemed as if the Netherlands were no longer participating in Europe. That was sheer scaremongering. So the expectations were hugely high. That train had to run 300 km/h and everything was taken out of the closet, billions, to make that technically possible. In the meantime, we can conclude that the plan to travel by train at 300 km/h very frequently and for a fair price has not proved feasible. So it was a mistake to decide in the 1990s. You can say that from the other project of that time, the euro. We all thought we'd get wealth from that. Most people loved it. The mass immigration from the 1990s was also seen by many people as an enormous enrichment for our society. Unfortunately, reality is different. Tomorrow we may have the Brexit, which is also a symbol of the mistakes of the 1990s, just like this project. The political elite of those years has caused great problems. Pim Fortuijn could then also start his book De debris van 8 jaar purple. So this debate is a symbol of the megalomaniac blunders of that time. The responsible politicians from that time are still in many places in our society: in boards of directors, as mayor, Commissioner and in many advisory committees. Van Aartsen, Kok, Zalm: all of them are still on TV every day and they all have a very large part of the power in the Netherlands in their hands. And who became the boss of NS? Roger from Boxtel. That man sees even more purple than Mrs. Van Veldhoven's dress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u152	That's not nice, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u153	It is, of course, symbolic, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u154	I cannot, of course, speak for Mr Van Boxtel, but perhaps he will take it as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u155	I am afraid that Mr Van Boxtel will indeed take it as a compliment. Whether it's meant to be, I'll leave it in the middle, or I'll have a fight with the chairman. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's a failure project. I am afraid that we must accept that the ambition of that time was simply too high. It is not feasible to have very high-frequency very fast trains at a very low price. And we already knew that; the SP already knew it; the PVV already knew it. We have always warned that that train and that infrastructure would become priceless. When you calculate the actual price, no one travels on that train anymore, because no one can afford it. That is the reality, and that reality has led indirectly to all the problems. Too much money was offered and the losses were actually a bit hidden in the budget of I and M and of the shareholder. That is why there are now two directors here: the shareholder and the responsible concession holder. I couldn't come up with the right term, but I'm glad Mrs Dijksma did. In addition, there has been a policy of dazzling; many groups have already referred to this. I have just heard that European procurement was not compulsory, but that was, according to the opinion, the future at that time. There was a lot of pressure on the purple cabinets to split our tracks in full acceleration and to devote them, because according to the prevailing view that would be the future. But the Germans and the French thought very differently about it and went against it. In the meantime, there is a completely different reality and the Netherlands is stuck with the chunks. We have also learned that the track is not a real market, because there is only a very limited number of players. These are generally state-owned companies, and you cannot compete with them. You cannot allow the NS to compete with French state-owned companies, because that is, of course, a question of difficulty. I come to the way in which the railway is organised and to the question of who is responsible for it. In 2006 I entered the Chamber and then Tineke Huizinga-Heringa was in trade-K. There were debates at that time and every time we heard: I am not going over it. The Chamber wanted to talk constantly about the problems it saw and about its wishes and demands, but it was very unclear who exactly was responsible for those problems. This survey has shown that everyone, including this Chamber, was actually a bit responsible, and that means that no one was actually responsible. The structure is far too complicated. Today's structure is a bit of a polder model. We are dealing not only with these two rulers, but also with ProRail and the NS, both of which have their own management board and their own supervisory board, and with Infraspeed, which also has its own management board and, I assume, also has its own supervisory board. But there are other players in this story: the Ministry of I and M, the ILT, the shareholder Dijsselbloem, Rijkswaterstaat and the shareholder of Infraspeed. I had to find out what Infraspeed really is. Wikipedia says that Infraspeed is some kind of HSL South rail infrastructure manager. It really says, "A kind of rail infrastructure manager." It is the largest public-private partnership contract the government has ever signed. It consists of companies such as the Royal BAM Group, Siemens, Rabobank and ING. The substructure is built by Rijkswaterstaat, the superstructure is under the responsibility of Infraspeed and the rail traffic control is in the hands of ProRail. In short: it's very complicated, and I don't understand it anymore. On top of all this there is still a day-to-day board, the House of Representatives, which climbs back into the microphone with every detail to say that things have to be different again. That way, of course, you cannot manage one national track. This administrative spaghetti has caused the chaos on the trail, and that is why we are calling for a simplification of the whole structure. The Secretary of State wants to make one player, ProRail, a Zbo, but that step is not enough for me. It is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to bring that whole administrative spaghetti back to a clear company in which responsibility is felt. I fear that the problems will not disappear because of this one step, and that we will still have to hear later that it is not our responsibility, but that of the NS, or that it is because of a broken overhead line or a stuck switch, which in turn are the responsibility of someone else. Of course, we will continue to do so, and that is why I want to argue for it again, as we have been doing for a very long time to bring NS and ProRail back to one holding company or one company under direct responsibility, so that we can again clarify who is responsible for the problems and who feels responsible for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u156	I think that is a very good idea from Mr Madlener. Unfortunately, not all structures are as simple as the PVV, where one person is responsible for everything. Even if you were to merge NS and ProRail, which we are for, you'd love a lot of the parties that Mr Madlener just mentioned. So even if we took that step, his problem would not have been solved. Why doesn't he take us on that first step in the right direction? I understand he's going too slowly, but the problems he's pointing out will continue if we do what he's proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u157	Maybe my party, the PVV, is a good example. We are indeed very successful in our democratic system because we have a very good direction. We have clear responsibilities. Perhaps that is indeed a good example of how to do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u158	Of course, I can't argue with this. I suggest we take the NS and ProRail to the PVV. Then it's all under the guidance of that one man and it's gonna be all right! But all madness on a stick, this can of course be the step in the right direction. Then the question is, why don't you join us? Is that just to be "ugly"? The problem you mention, namely that there are still a number of parties around the track that make the complex, is also present when you merge NS and ProRail. We are now taking a step in the right direction by adding ProRail to the Ministry. With a merger of NS and ProRail we also do not solve all the problems you have mentioned. Why don't you just join us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u159	I thought we were taking part in this by arguing for the right direction, which is to simplify the whole management structure and remove many layers of management. In that sense, we think along, but then you have to take the whole step. The current proposal to change only ProRail, that one player, a little bit in terms of organizational structure, is just too small a step. The difference between a ZBO and the current structure of ProRail is not that big. We want to move on. We really want to see a whole new structure. A market survey is being carried out and the research into this structure is included. I welcome that, but I am only afraid that market exploration will not fully reflect this possibility. It depends a little on who you ask. Of course, you can do this in different ways. What agency is gonna figure this out? It all has its advantages and disadvantages. So I'd like to clarify who's going to do that market exploration. And does the plea to make the switch to a holding structure also get a fair chance? Maybe a foreign research agency should figure it out, for example, a German agency, or someone else who has experience with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u160	That it all has its advantages and disadvantages, we are probably in total agreement, but is the PVV's proposal to renationalise and merge everything? How many years did Mr Madlener intend to take off for that? And at what point, for example, does Mr Madlener think that the traveller can actually move faster from Amsterdam to Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u161	Merging everything and bringing it back under national responsibility is indeed the way. How long that's gonna take, it's gonna have to prove. That's what a reconnaissance is now being done. I'm curious about the results! It will not be settled tomorrow, but if we agree that this is the way forward, at least we will have the right direction. Then we shall hear when that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u162	I have very disappointing news: the market exploration that is being carried out is not about total nationalisation of everything that has to do with our track. It is really about something else; Mrs van Veldhoven will probably ask something about that too. Does the PVV propose to ask these directors now to work out a complete plan for a total nationalisation of our entire trail?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u163	For years I have argued that we are in favour of bringing ProRail and NS back into one company. A holding company could or could be another way, but that's technique. That's what we stand for. In this sense, we agree with the SP that this should be the line. You can say that making ProRail a zbo is a step in that direction, but you don't really go through with it. Anyway, I'm assuming this scenario will be included in the investigation that's taking place right now. The Christian Union just suggested that Infraspeed should be included, but I'm afraid that's not possible yet. An appointment has been made with that company for 25 years, but I would like to hear whether Infraspeed can also be included. That would be good, but I'm afraid that's impossible right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u164	It might be good to keep the market exploration and the exploration of different scenarios apart. Market exploration is about how we can achieve better performance within the existing situation. For example, you can give another carrier a role. On the other hand, there is the discussion about developing scenarios on future rail planning. I have the feeling that Mr Madlener was talking about the second when he called the word'market exploration'. Does Mr Madlener need these scenarios, or does he only want one scenario, namely his plan? Does he want his plan to come first, or does the traveler have to stand first? In that case, you should develop different scenarios to determine which scenario is best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u165	I certainly don't rule out different scenarios. There are several ways to Rome and each scenario has its own advantages and disadvantages. Eventually it will turn out to be a political choice, I'm afraid. However, we have expressed our preference in advance and I want that scenario to be looked at in a serious way. In other countries this is organised in this way. I want the advantages and disadvantages side by side, worked towards the Dutch situation. That is my question: is this scenario going to have a serious chance and is the agency that is going to be doing this research really able to investigate that objectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u166	Of course, we all want scenarios to be seriously investigated. I am a little surprised that the PVV wants to fly into a foreign agency immediately. In my first term, I proposed asking the ACM, our own supervisor, to give independent advice on the scenarios. Does Mr Madlener support the idea of the ACM issuing an opinion on the scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u167	I find it very difficult to judge that. There aren't that many agencies that can investigate this and there are always a few preferences. I really want an objective study and the Netherlands is really a small country in this respect. I cannot answer the question whether the ACM is the designated party for this and I would like to put this question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u168	That's not what you mean, Mrs. Van Veldhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u169	Not instead, but it is a question for the ACM to give an opinion on the scenarios that have been issued. This will give you a second independent test on what will be submitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u170	I see you need to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u171	Whether the ACM can advise us if the research is carried out correctly, that is about the question. If the ACM has time for that, I would like to read the research, but to do a research investigation now seems very cumbersome to me. There must be research and this scenario must be given a very fair chance. That is what we will wait for and then come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u172	A question to Mr Madlener. Can he support the call I made on behalf of the CDA not to comment on ProRail's role until the scenarios have been investigated? You can still take the liberty of doing something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u173	That makes perfect sense. If you're doing an investigation into that order and if you're willing to take a very drastic step as a result of that investigation, then it's odd to take very small steps prior to that investigation. It was also strange to grant the NS the concession for the hsl at the time when it was examined how the NS carried it out. That wasn't right either. I understand what Mr Van Helvert is saying. I have the same question as Mr Van Helvert: is it useful to take such a step before that investigation has been carried out? Maybe that step doesn't lead to final cases at all, but it's just a step in that direction. I'd like to put the question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u174	Then I understand that, even if we may think differently about a possible outcome in terms of content, we may be able to agree on the procedure for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u175	That is correct, depending on the answer given by the Secretary of State. You have to make choices, but at the right time. The question is whether this is the right time to take that step, as it is also the question of whether this is the right time to say that the NS will lose the concession for the hsl again in 2025. I believe that now is not the time to wave motions that the HSL concession should be tendered again in 2025. That's so far away, it's been over eight years. I would like to wait and see. Finally, I would also like to thank the Committee of Inquiry...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u176	You were finishing up? Okay, I'll give Mrs Van Veldhoven the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u177	Then Mr Madlener can thank the Committee of Inquiry in detail. That's so neat. Can Mr Madlener make an assessment of how long it will take to prepare and implement such a tender?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u178	That could take a few years. However, I would like to point out that the NS has ordered equipment, trained people and is now fully committed to making an offer that the Chamber was 100% aware of when it decided to grant the concession to the NS. I don't think it's right for the NS to say right after that moment that the NS can lose the concession again in 2025 or that it needs to be tendered again. First let the NS make sure her offer is a success. There is still a great deal to be achieved, because there is still a long way to go. I do not think this is the time to put such a motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u179	Mr Madlener just made a whole speech, both in my speech and in that of the CDA, that it was the PVV that wanted to tender the hsl and that the PVV still stands for it. Now, eight years before we reach a new decision, Mr Madlener puts his head in the lap and actually says: the NS bought trains, so we can't do it now to get them back in a tender in 2025, that's impossible. If you want to do such a tender, you have to start it in time and not in eight years. Is Mr Madlener now putting his head in the lap and saying: okay, it's just for the NS? That's what he actually says when he doesn't want to start a tender in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u180	I am indeed saying that the NS was granted the concession a year and a half ago to operate the HSL for the next ten years, that the NS made an offer for it which the Chamber was aware of and that the NS ordered trains. Then I do find it strange to say shortly after that moment: NS, in 2025 we will take it away from you again. Those trains will be delivered in 2020. They'll be on track for five years. I find it strange to say in advance that the NS is losing the concession again. Let's see what it says by then. Maybe we're very satisfied with the NS as a state-owned company, along with ProRail, and we want to keep it that way. Indeed, I find it absolutely untimely to leave this threat hanging over the head of the NS. I will therefore strongly advise against this motion to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u181	Contracting parties do not mean that the NS may no longer participate. The Dutch Railways can of course also participate in a tender of the hsl. If trains were bought, that doesn't mean they have to be thrown away afterwards. Maybe they're being taken over or the NS is putting them on a different path. That's not the point. The point is, however, I would ask Mr Madlener to reflect on this. The tender itself usually runs for more than a year, so say two years. So if we want a good new train after 2024, we'll have to start soon anyway. Do I see that wrong and, if so, at what other time would the PVV want to start?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u182	I can't imagine you having to say eight years in advance that you're going to be contracting. I do not think that is the case. I think you can report that a few years in advance. The criticism of the Committee of Inquiry is correct in saying that the Chamber is swarming, that the policy is not consistent. And what does the Room do? One and a half after she has given the concession to the NS, there will be a motion: NS, by 2025 you will lose her again, potentially, then it will be re-contracted. The concession expires in 2025. It's normal for you to start thinking in advance about how you're gonna move on, but you don't have to now. You can do that in a couple of years. I think that eight years in advance is a little too far and only leads to unrest in the NS. I just don't think it's timely right now, and when we had the choice, you weren't home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u183	Now Mr Madlener is totally inconsistent. Or you say, "I'll put my head in the lap," because the NS is buying trains now and they have to be able to keep driving the same way after 2025. If that is the position of the PVV, it has been totally changed in relation to the motion which it has tabled and which Mr Madlener has just tambourized so much. It's okay. Then you just changed your position. Then put your head in the lap and say the NS can keep doing it after 2025. If you want to keep the opportunity open to offer the travelers something better after 2025, you have to start in time. Then the NS can simply participate, as Mr Van Helvert just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u184	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u185	Will Mr Madlener now put his head in the lap and say that the NS can just keep driving for twenty years or does he say that we are going to look again in 2025? Then you have to start at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u186	This question has just been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u187	There is simply no unambiguous answer from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u188	This is just creating a reality that isn't there at all. It just makes sense. The concession expires in 2025. So before then, we will have to think about how to proceed: are we going to award NS directly or are we going to tender and, if so, what are we going to contract? Of course, we'll have to think about that by 2025. But to record now 2017, just after the NS has received that concession, that we are going to award it, I just think it is too early. Let us first look at how the NS is going to do in the years to come, and then let us choose whether to spend or to grant it privately and, if so, how: with regional lines or without regional lines. It's being investigated, for Christ's sake. Then we are not going to throw motions here to commit ourselves to the tender of this line already? That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u189	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u190	It's just about the hsl. The NS received the concession on the hsl by really playing a game in which it took advantage of a monopoly position which it had in the knowledge that it was still a cardigan pocket with the State. That's what the report says. Does the PVV actually think it's okay that it turned out that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u191	Let's be for a while: who did the NS get that concession from? From you! When I filed that motion, you said no, she has to go to the NS. You didn't even support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u192	But you're gonna be okay with it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u193	And now, one and a half years later, you say: yes, you can't! You should have made the decision then. Once you have awarded it to the NS, you must also be honest and say that the NS must first show that it is worth seeing by that time whether it is allowed to go through with this or not and whether we are contracting or not. I'm not gonna make a statement about that right now. I think it's really untimely and a little bit of cheap politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u194	That's not consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u195	Please continue, Mr Madlener. You were in the middle of your rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u196	I would call it very consistent. I would remind you of the debate in the Chamber. I can still make it lively. It was in October 2014. Then we had the choice to give the NS that line in that concession or not. And then D66, like the CDA, said, "Yeah, that's what we're gonna do." That was then chosen, and you should not want to go back on that now. You'll have to wait and see. That is why I shall abstain from the motion that is to be tabled. I am also curious to see what the cabinet thinks of this motion and this course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u197	Are you going to discourage the motion? Am I hearing that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u198	I will not recommend the motion to my group. What the Cabinet is going to do with this, I can think of something to do with it. We'll see about that. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry. There was another sentence by Mr Timmer. He really is a market man first-class, former top man of Philips and of the NS. He said during the interviews: "Privatization of the track is the mother of all evil. The track is not a market." I would like to mention those words here again. I think we should learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u199	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by echoing what Mr Madlener said at the end of his speech, because I would once again like to thank the Committee of Inquiry for the good work it has done. I agree with many of her recommendations, and I am pleased that they have all been arrested or are still being arrested by the Secretary of State and the Minister. The traveller central: that's the most important thing. A market survey is currently being carried out to the HSL-South. Four scenarios are considered at the end of the concession and the market organisation is considered. I am, of course, curious about the outcome and effects of these market explorations. I would particularly like to know why the Secretary of State thinks that results are coming from this, and how she intends to trigger other market players to think about improvements that the NS should actually take care of and which the NS might also have to implement. I believe that we should not fall into old discussions and that we should therefore stay away from a structural discussion, because if, in my opinion, something has become clear from the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra, it is that perhaps it has not been so much the structure but the culture that has led to us not having handled matters properly. Mr Van Helvert says that we are all guilty of this and perhaps we are, but then we must also make sure that we do it better. Only in this way can we really put the traveller at the centre and that means that we have to give NS and ProRail the confidence, but also the time to put the traveller first again. Does the Secretary of State agree? In the autumn of this year, the Secretary of State again talks with the NS about the HSL-South. Is she prepared to at least clarify her commitment to that discussion with the NS about the HSL South before that time? Can she also imagine that we are actually looking at a few scenarios, but that this provisional theory will remain and that we will first see what improvements can be made in the current situation, before we have a whole set-up discussion that may take place again in a few years' time? Finally, I think it is important to consider the strategy of the NS. Mr Van Helvert does not want to talk about this, but I do. Over the last few weeks, due to a hearing and some conversations, I increasingly feel that the NS is less strongly defending its own strategy and that there are more ifs and buts, and I do not think that is a good thing. Actually, I thought that strategy of the NS was okay, to be honest. I therefore ask the Secretary of State how she is going to ensure that the NS takes note of the strategy, which I assume she agrees with, is actually implemented as it is written down, without all kinds of ifs and buts. That is the last thing I had to say about this, and I am very curious about the reaction of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u200	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There's a need for suspension. We will combine these with a dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u201	I would like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u202	I would like to make the order proposal that the Minister of Finance first answers the questions of the rulers. If that is satisfactory, I suspect that the Minister of Finance is also working elsewhere, he can go unless he wishes to attend the rest of our debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u203	I see no one has any objection to that. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Chairman. I am very grateful for this gesture from the Chamber. There haven't been a lot of questions asked of me. The disadvantage is that I did not prepare an introduction, because the Secretary of State would kick off the big one and in general respond to the committee's investigation. So I'm not gonna give it to the Chamber. A single question has been asked to me about the new strategy paper of the NS, but there will be a separate debate on this, so I can be brief about that at the moment. A single question has been asked about the different roles and the division of roles. In general terms, the Committee of Inquiry has stated that financial interests have always taken precedence over passenger interests. I would like to make a few comments on this. It is always annoying to have to start with a point on which you disagree with the committee, but I do not agree. I also think it's not true. I do not think it does justice to all those people who have been working in the long history of HSL-South and the Fyra. Financial interests have not always dominated. This is always happening against the backdrop of the financial possibilities, but this is true in many of the policy debates we have. Everything has its price. In the background, there is always a financial framework. What budget is it from? If it doesn't go from a budget, which taxpayer does the money come from? If it doesn't come from the taxpayer, what dividend does it come from? In the end, it's always the taxpayer. That is a relative remark to the statement that the financial interests have always taken precedence over the interests of travellers. It's not like that. Having said that, Finance has always played a role in this dossier and is therefore jointly responsible. At the time of the invitation to tender of the Fyra, the responsibilities were very different than they are now. Finance has only been a shareholder since 2005, as the Chamber knows. Before that time, the different roles were more in one hand. Since 2005, the choice has been made to invest the role of shareholder in Finance. This applies to all major State participations, not some policy participations. Finance always pays attention to what is laid down in laws and regulations and, in the case of the NS, in concessions. That is the definition of the public interest. Within that framework, Finance, from a shareholder's point of view, naturally pays attention to the position and continuity of the company. This also includes sensible financial policy within the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u205	I hear the Minister wants to put it into perspective that the financial importance has always been at the forefront. He says that does not do justice to the people who have worked hard. Of course, there were always people who had the good in mind.I certainly don't want to put that into perspective either.But if you look at the bid and the number of points to be obtained to get the bid, which the Dutch Railways and KLM ultimately do, you can see that 142 of the 152 points that can be achieved are of a financial nature and that the passenger interests can be found in annexes to which there are no direct points. Then you can say that the tender was mainly a financial matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u206	If that were the case and it had really been approached by the NS and its partners, then this offer would never have been made. The offer has been made at a far too high price, which I dare to say with the knowledge based on this research, because the NS was ultimately something else, namely simply to maintain its position on the main rail network, including this important connection. If also for the NS financial considerations had always been dominant, then the NS would never have done so. It has caused the NS the necessary problems. I have a second example. I believe that a negotiated agreement was concluded later on in the negotiations and that the concession fee was also reduced. That was for understandable reasons, but here too, if the money had really been at the forefront, it probably wouldn't have happened. So it's more nuanced than that. If only reality were that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u207	That is, of course, as bad as saying: I am only going for the financial interest. Of the 152 points there were 142 to fetch in the financial field; points for the passenger interest you did not get. The minister says: no, but the NS didn't do it for the points of money, but to keep its own concession. That is, of course, more or less also the retention of your financial capital, only in a different way. So that's just as bad. I actually wanted to create a contradiction between interests, but I believe that the tone of the survey is that these interests, namely the preservation of concessions or financial interests, have taken precedence over the interests of the traveller. That can also be seen in the points. My question was what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u208	The only thing I would like to suggest to Mr Van Helvert is that virtually every discussion we have here is that political debates on public policy always take place against the background of financial considerations. We can think them away and say: we must simply ignore them, the interests of travellers must be paramount. Then indeed anything is possible; then the sky is the limit. But of course it's just not like that. The argument that the financial considerations have dominated, you could also apply to any care discussion in this Chamber. "The financial interests have dominated!" Yeah, that's right. If money is no object, if money is unlimited, then you make other considerations. But it never is. That is my only relative remark. I think it is the case that we always have to consider the account that we want to pay with each other and who pays that bill. It always is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u209	It is, of course, still a relativization and I understand that very well. I hear the Minister doesn't want to respond to my question. Of course, everything has a price tag. That's what we decide here in the Chamber. But if you can get 142 out of 152 points on finances when you can get 0 points for passenger interests, can't you say that that was in balance? I would have liked to have had a reaction on that point, but I see that the Minister does not reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u210	I will not fight that, because I would have to go through the 142-point list. I don't have that right now. That is not at the heart of my comment either. The essence of my comment is: yes, it is true that political decisions, all our wishes and ambitions, are always limited by certain financial frameworks. You can make it bigger, but then again, I believe that Mr Madlener, who also said that he is going to land the bill somewhere, whether it is for the citizen as a traveller or for the citizen as a taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u211	It may be due to the missing introduction, which we will hear from the Secretary of State, but I do not think that this relativization of the main conclusion of this report is appropriate. The main conclusion is not only that financial interests have taken precedence over each other. The main conclusion is that other interests prevailed over passenger transport over and over again. The conclusion is: "The State thus attached great importance to the financial returns and NS was focused on maintaining its strategic position." The main conclusion of the report therefore does justice to the fact that there were several interests, but that all of them have always prevailed. But there were also financial interests, because the main conclusion also states: "That is why NS together with partner KLM offers an extremely high bid to obtain the concession. Also with the knowledge of that time, the reality of that bid can be questioned, both in terms of transport and in terms of finance. However, the reality of the request by the State to establish the intended transport with the required financial condition (at least EUR 100 million per year) (...) is also questionable.' So that the financial considerations have also gone ahead is, in my view, a well-founded part of the main conclusion of the report. I hope the Minister agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u212	I endorse that, even if only to end this discussion now. The division of roles is really different at the moment, and that is precisely why it has been done. If the NS is now competing for a concession, because of this division of roles Finance is only looking as a shareholder, with questions such as: is the price offered a reasonable price, is it proportionate to the risks that are being incurred, is it worth it and is it to be earned back? That wasn't there at the time. I therefore very much agree with the committee's finding that the price offered in that tender was totally irresponsible for the company and thus also for the sole shareholder, even then the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u213	It would be a credit to the Minister if he took back the phrase 'if only to be off the discussion', because that really does not do justice to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u214	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u215	I think he concludes that there was a situation at the time that is no longer there. Let's be happy about that. But the committee did its research and concluded that at that time financial interests were also above the interests of travellers. I don't think there's any nuance to that today. Or the Minister should come up with a different basis, and then we will continue the debate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u216	I'm going to correct myself at one point. Several members of the Chamber summarized the committee's conclusion in the first term as: financial interests have taken precedence over passenger interests, point. Now that Mrs Van Veldhoven has read the full conclusion, we can see that this is more nuanced and, in my opinion, adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u217	The conclusion that the financial interests have actually weighed too heavily is quite bizarre when you look at the financial outcome of this whole project. The financial damage is enormous and the damage to passengers is even greater. In any case, both interests do not seem to have been served in the course of events. However, I have one more question. The Minister speaks here as a shareholder of NS. NS's offer was not real. That feeling lived very strongly at the time, so I can remember. Why didn't Finance intervene then? The Minister says that that was not his role, but it was his job, even then, not to accept this kind of bid too high? Mr Timmer said it was for our pocket pocket, we offer a lot and we take it off the dividend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u218	I now tend to respond to Mr Timmer's statement, which, of course, was ill-advised from his role as supervisor of the NS as a state-owned company: he also had to protect the NS from this kind of adventure. Anyway, that's all talking after. At that time, Finance was not the shareholder. It didn't look at it with the look we're looking at now: what does this mean for the company, for continuity, for business? And: can the company actually bear this price, is this price paid back and, if not, what does that mean for the company? That's not how the Treasury looked at it back then. Finance then simply looked at the proceeds and it was considerable, at least on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u219	But the shareholder was the Dutch State then, so who had that role? Who should then have said on behalf of the Dutch taxpayer and on behalf of the shareholders: this cannot be done? Who would have done it? If Finance didn't have that job, then who did?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u220	This analysis has been made a long time ago. In the past, shareholdership was also owned by the same Ministry of Policy, then Transport and Water State. However, this was already adapted in 2005 for precisely this reason, and not only in the case of Traffic and Water State. Throughout the government, the policy department and shareholdership have been separated. It is common for policy departments or the Chamber to have certain wishes with regard to state participations and that Finance says: yes, wait a minute, that has a price and this is at the expense of the company in the longer term. It's important that someone looks at it from that perspective. There is just social capital in such a company and that should not only be profitable this year, but also preserved. The company must also be able to grow its assets so that new investments are possible. That's how we look at it these days, but it wasn't divorced at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u221	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u222	That was immediately the second subject on which questions were asked: the division of roles and the different hats. I come to the third theme. Mrs Van Tongeren asked a question about an implementation test for privatisation under one sg. The parliamentary committee of inquiry on self-determination and privatisation was, I think, a committee in the First Chamber of the European Parliament has very clearly identified how politics should deal more carefully with self-determination and privatisation. Within the cabinet, the Minister for National Service is now responsible for monitoring that process. If there's any self-destruct or privatisation, he'll guard that process. We will then go through all the steps recommended in that scheme by the parliamentary committee of inquiry, so that we will consciously go through all these steps, and the Chambers will consciously take decisions and give the green light for a next step. It contains the care that Mrs Van Tongeren advocates, so very well built in. So we didn't designate one sg, but we appointed one minister to guard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u223	I welcome the Minister's answer that we are now following these recommendations. The First Chamber has recommended doing both, so both one sg and one ruler. So I am glad to hear that we are doing one ruler and I almost think that we may also be doing one sg, but of course we as a Chamber are not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u224	No, but de facto, of course, the sg at that ministry is also the one who's guarding it from the official column. I think we agree on that. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked a question about the joint viewing of the Dutch and Belgian audit offices. I very much welcome cooperation between audit firms. The Dutch Court of Auditors is very active in international cooperation with other Courts of Auditors, so this could be the case. Only I have to be very careful to find something about it or that is desired here, because they are strictly independent. So it's really up to the accountants to pick up these kinds of projects together. Mr Smaling made a comment about the disappearance of engineers at the NS. Of course, I am very pleased with the plea to the engineers. In my view, however, the NS is still a very professional organisation. The fact that the highest management does not always have a technical training does not mean that the company is not adequately managed if there is sufficient technical knowledge and expertise in the organisation. At least that was not sufficiently secured around the purchase of the Fyra. This has, of course, led to the necessary lessons being drawn within the NS as regards the quality of tenders. We have had the recent procurement of the new intercity's recently ordered checked by external specialists to see if the quality assurance process was in order. The opinion on this was positive. So the quality test on investments is now really well secured. I come to the NS' future strategy. We have embraced the committee's recommendation that a number of future scenarios for the planning of the railways and, therefore, for the position of the NS should now be set out in a very fundamental way. The Secretary of State will say more about this later. But between now and the moment when such a future political decision has been taken, the NS simply needs to move forward. Decisions must be made on a daily basis, including investment decisions and decisions on whether or not to participate in certain activities. As I previously agreed with the Chamber in connection with the case in Limburg, the NS has formulated a future strategy. It may have a limited length, i.e. only for the years to come, but it is essential. It makes a strong choice for the main rail network. That is the core task. Quality and reliability must be improved in this area, but a number of other activities can really be abandoned. There is also an important relationship with the discussion about market forces, whether or not. The NS has a strong monopoly position on the main rail network. There the NS inevitably has a very dominant position. As soon as the NS moves into other areas where market forces are, it makes it difficult to call that market operation fair, because the NS comes onto the playing field with a lot of knowledge, knowledge origin or a lot of material and finance. We have seen this in the regional tenders. That is why we believe that we should stop putting the NS in that position. I am not talking about the direct fraud in Limburg, because this should not happen under any circumstances. That's obvious. But we must also be critical of ourselves, because with such a joint market organisation where a monopolist is going to compete in certain areas, fair market forces will become vulnerable. Let me put it this way. We are making a number of choices now, because the NS must take a step backwards in the area of free market activities. The NS should no longer participate in regional concessions. Moreover, there is no reason why the NS should continue its commercial shopping or catering activities in the future. I also congratulate the NS on the development and design of these retail chains, because they have been very successful. The concept of door-to-door also became a bit all-encompassing. Other parties were really pushed aside by that big NS with all its resources. Again, you can be very well focused on door-to-door services without having all the activities in your own hands. So we need to look much more critically at what the NS itself should do and what can be done in good cooperation with partners in the OV chain. I have to stop this now, because we want to have this debate another time, but I would like to address a question from Mr Hoogland on the future strategy. How does this relate to foreign activities? We must make a different assessment there. In many countries of the European rail market, you see large, dominant players who are often in state hands. They play a large part of the home market or even have it completely in their hands. Those big players are then active in foreign countries where concessions are granted. I think the NS should have that opportunity, too. That should not happen in the Netherlands, because there the NS is the big monopolist, the big player on the main rail network. It is therefore vulnerable to compete on parts. But the NS, for example, does not have that vulnerable position in England where concessions can be made. Why should the NS no longer be allowed to compete with its subsidiary there with German, English and French companies operating there? I think the NS is genuinely learning from that. The organisation will now also be better organised to ensure that the experience gained there leads to better quality of work in the Netherlands. So the foreign company is now also allowed to look at the business operations in the Netherlands where efficiency gains can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u225	The only reason I am standing here now is because I know that otherwise there are one, two, three or four colleagues before me and I have asked the question on this subject. That's how it works in the Chamber. That's a very perverse system. So if my follow-up question is relevant, I don't know, because the minister wasn't finished at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u226	We're very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u227	My follow-up question would be: how does the Minister deal with the financial risks involved? But I'm assuming the Minister will just go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u228	Sure. We also have agreements on this with the NS. Firstly, we have agreements on strategy with all the state participations. The strategy is discussed with the shareholder. It is ultimately a decision of the company. After all, it is an NV, but it is being discussed with the shareholder. In addition, we have significantly reduced the investment thresholds for state participations. In the past, the investment threshold at which the shareholder was given control was 2 billion. Thus, only if the NS invested in a single amount of 2 billion, which is actually not very predictable, would the shareholder really have formal control. It has now been reduced to 200 million inland and 100 million abroad. If the NS or the NS subsidiary were to invest in a concession abroad and that investment exceeded an amount of 100 million, the shareholder would be asked for permission. Of course, that's an important deposit. Then there is the question of how Finance is assessing this. We look in two ways. Of course, the risk and return of the concession must always be in itself in good proportion. So the risk varies by concession. Sometimes there is actually just a guarantee given by the concession holder, who says: if you get this concession, this is your earning model and then this is just what you can earn on it. But sometimes it's much more an open concession, where it depends on the turnover you realize whether you're doing well or not or whether you're making a return on it. So we look at that and, if necessary, we ask external experts for a second opinion, which is whether it is an attractive concession or whether money can be earned. We also look at the impact on the core activity in the Netherlands in case things go wrong. That's very limited. This is due, among other things, to the legal structure. If the daughter went bankrupt because a concession completely failed, the daughter would go really bankrupt. On a few specific elements, but they are very limited and limited in scope Finance has agreements with the NS debt securities can be given a guarantee. Sometimes the concession holder also asks whether the parent company grants a certain guarantee, because most of them are subsidiaries of larger parent companies. We have a ceiling on that. This means that concessions to a certain extent may be made by the NS, especially when they require a guarantee that is too large. Then we just say: sorry, but this exceeds the maximum guarantee that the NS can grant to her daughter in our opinion. So we look at the business case itself and at the worst case scenario, at what guarantees there are and what risks there would be through these guarantees for the NS in the Netherlands. So that's very well guarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u229	It's good to establish this. There are a number of activities that require capital or there may be external circumstances. Then the risk is not in the concession, but it has to do with currency or debt, and I say this specifically to Mr Madlener................................................................................................................................................................................................ There may also be other circumstances on the basis of which there are risks. To what extent have they been taken into account in this consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u230	That's what happens when assessing the business case. That's where the risk-efficiency weighting comes in. How much certainty is there that you can earn what you think you're earning on the concession? It is also in underlying guarantees, for example. What if Abellio went completely bankrupt? Abellio has an equity. This is partly brought in by the NS and partly built up by the merits in recent years. For example, in 2015, Abellio was able to add 37 million to its own funds. That amount is earned by foreign concessions. The equity is in there. So if losses are already being suffered in Abellio, this naturally goes away from own funds. A guarantee may have been issued by the NS on specific items, the financial risks of which are therefore actually limited, but then we have tested that in advance and it is limited to a maximum amount. But given that Abellio simply has an equity, it is also able to absorb some of the risks, should they occur. I realize that this is an important point for the Chamber. I can imagine sending a brief letter to the Chamber before we continue the debate on the strategy. What are those ceilings? So what's the test? We have recently discussed this in some detail with the NS. I will therefore indicate exactly how much risk Abellio can take. How much equity do we have now? In other words, what is their own buffer to cover risks and what part can go to the NS? That's really very limited. The NS is really a large company with a balance sheet total of about 6 billion. That's what I'm saying right now. Then we have set the threshold for what can be guaranteed by the NS on foreign concessions significantly lower, really far away, in order to prevent the NS ever having to limit its core activity due to foreign adventures, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u231	You do not want the NS to become a company with some kind of waterhead abroad. The minister says he's okay with NS going abroad if she can learn from it. I don't want companies to qualify as adventures. The Minister has just explained that there is a carefully considered framework. I thank him for his commitment to put that in a letter once again. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is that learning a sine qua nun? Does the NS have to prove she's learning anything? Or is just earning abroad enough for the minister to say that he agrees with a business case if return and risk are proportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u232	I also think learning is very important. The first argument is just making money. The second is that it makes it easier for you to be active in another market in those circumstances. The third is important to me, too. It could be a political consideration to say: it has no added value for the NS, so stop those foreign activities. This means that they can develop even more large competitors in the European market. They'll just take the whole market. They take the concessions that exist regionally in Germany, the British concessions and so on. I think the NS should be able to be active in that. I have no reason to say that the NS should not participate in that European market. These are, to a large extent, state-owned enterprises which participate to a large extent in regional concessions in other countries. Mrs Van Veldhoven also knows that. In order to answer Mrs Van Veldhoven's question in concrete terms: yes, it must also be shown that there is really serious learning; what do you do with it? You really need to organize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u233	I understand it's not a sine qua non for the Minister. He says that it can also be done if it fits one of the other two objectives. Now the NS concentrates its foreign activities mainly on two markets where it is already active, England and Germany. I hear the Minister now saying that he thinks it should also be broader, so wherever there are possibilities, wherever other state participations are active. Does he then go so far as to say that it can also be broader, or does he think it is wise to limit it to those two? If the latter is the case, why does he limit it to those two?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u234	In any case, we believe that it should be limited and that there should be focus. It takes real knowledge of that domestic market to be able to act properly, to properly assess the risks there, to understand how the government works and how the concession providers work. The risks really increase as you spread those activities across, for example, ten countries. In ten countries that know market conditions, you need to know how concessions work, how legal relations are etc. England and Germany are close. The NS now knows these two markets well. There's been a build-up of experience. In England, she is now a major carrier. She's doing a good job. For example, when it comes to learning, the added value of a lot or a lot of countries is really reduced. There is a somewhat decreasing added value as it expands further. That's the trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u235	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u236	Mr. Chairman. I think we will discuss the other points of discussion which undoubtedly result from the strategy another time. I am sending a letter to the Chamber about foreign activities and how we weigh them and limit their risks. I look forward to that follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u237	I am glad that the Minister would like to discuss the other points some other time. I would like to say that we will return to this point in that debate too. I would also like to ask a few questions about this. I am not asking these questions because we have stated in the regulations that we would be talking about the Fyra in particular today. But I would also like to have a further discussion on this subject next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u238	As a shareholder, you also interfere with the NS's business strategy, because of course it also has all the influence on the policy field we are talking about. There's a lot of overlap in that. We support the approach taken by the NS to concentrate more on the core activities and less on those activities that have nothing to do with the running of trains. In that sense, it would be ideally nice if the stations would be removed completely from NS. Then you avoid problems as we have seen them in Limburg. In fact, that goes a step further, but we shall first see what comes out of those scenarios. The choice of a scenario will also affect the new business strategy. That's what I wanted to say here. That brings me to my question. We have seen the conclusions of the final report. Will things go completely different in the dealings between shareholder and company? The Minister has just lifted a tip from the veil, but have there been any more lessons learned? What will really be done differently, especially in relation to the double hats?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u239	I think I've given the answer for the most part. In the State participation note of a few years ago, we indicated much more clearly how we fulfil our role as an active shareholder. By the way, that is different from an activist shareholder, who is often valued negatively. That doesn't mean we're gonna sit in the board seat. Then we should simply turn it into an official service. The NS has been a state-owned nv for a long time. The company was never privatised. The debate often says that the NS has been privatised, but that has never happened. It's been a state-owned nv since 1912. In recent years, we have decided to take more active part as shareholders, but very specifically on certain points. I am thinking of appointments and the organisation of governance, so changes in the governance and the appointments of directors themselves. I'm thinking about the company's strategy and the investments. We have also set a standard return for each State participation. That does not mean that we say that you have to achieve a certain return, but the risk of being in state hands is also that a company becomes lazy and easy because there are no risks and competitors. Thank you very much. We don't want that. We want a company like the NS to make a net return. Why? Firstly, to ensure that it remains an efficient business, that it is run efficiently, but also that it is able to make its replacement investments and enter the capital market to finance itself and new investments. For that, you need a healthy business operation, so we'll send for that. I just mentioned the investment in the new intercity trains. We have watched very actively from the beginning. We have looked at the design, the requirements, the monitoring of the process etc. Both quality and price must be well secured. A second big lesson is next. There are simply risks if you give a company that is a monopolist in a situation without market forces, namely on the main rail network, the task or space to compete where there is market forces, for example in the regions or in the hospitality and retail sectors or in bus transport. Then it's very difficult for the NS to guard those internal Chinese walls. With those Chinese walls, I think: no cross-subsidisation, no abuse of information position and dominant market power, because the NS is just a very large company with a very large financial strength. We all want to avoid that. The risks of the monopolist in a market functioning situation are significantly reduced by the strategic choices made by the NS and supported by the Cabinet. This also has to do with the Fyra, where that has happened and where there has been a call for tenders but from a monopoly on the main rail network. It also has to do with Limburg, where it was difficult to do it carefully. There it simply failed to do it carefully. Those lessons need to be learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u240	Indeed, a year ago, in fact, things went completely wrong. Mr Dijsselbloem speaks of Chinese walls, but are those Chinese walls there? How do you prevent cross-subsidisation of all those activities within the organisation, with which the NS always has a competitive advantage, not only with knowledge but also with resources? It's hard for me. Ideally it should be that the stations are really separated, because that's how you avoid it in the future. I would like the Minister's reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u241	When you no longer allow NS to participate in regional procurement, you solve everything that has to do with the huge risk of the non-functioning of Chinese walls, the abuse of the information position, the advantage of the ability to make cheap own equipment available and so on. You don't put the NS, the big monopolist, in the position where NS can compete in a regional tender and acquire a stronger position. You're gonna fix that. The issue of stations is really a different one. In it you can choose a principled line, and it has also been weighed by the cabinet. That is the line: stations are actually infrastructure, and should not the infrastructure be directly in public hands, as rail infrastructure is directly in public hands and like Schiphol, especially the Schiphol area, are directly in public hands, etc.? On the other hand, from the point of view of passenger interests, we would put that at the heart of the matter from now on, wouldn't we? There is a great deal to say that the carrier also has at least the direction of the station. How is the station equipped, up to and including the walkways at the station, how is social security at the station, who is at the station, what services are all offered in the commercial areas of the station? We have considered that it is really important for the NS, as carrier on the main rail network, to provide those services. That leaves the stations within the regional concession. Our picture is that the regional carriers and the provinces are not waiting to take over all these small stations. The NS simply has a device for that and an organization and experience, apart from all the infrastructure and communication technology and so on that station. Faced with the principled line, it's infrastructure, isn't it? Do you have to stick to NS? So the very practical consideration is: in our opinion it is really in the passenger's interest to keep the stations with the carrier, so that that is one offer to the traveller. When you ask passengers what they think is important in the quality of public transport, it is not only about trains but also about the stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u242	I would like to make a point of order. As regards the NS strategy, it was said yesterday in the course of the work that we would not involve it in today's debate but that there would be a separate debate on it. I have the impression that this subject has snuck into it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u243	I fully agree with you. That is what we agreed yesterday. The temptation is very great now. I'm gonna leave the discussion for now. I'm just asking one very short question. The NS said: until 2019. Only 2020 will be the first tender. So that's a bit of an empty shell as part of the corporate strategy. Otherwise, I'll leave it for what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u244	Yes, but at the same time you are starting the debate. I am fine with it, but if we agree, we have to keep it, and this agreement was made yesterday. So I really want to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u245	A small point of order: we did not decide yesterday to hold a separate debate on that point. That was my explicit question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u246	Perhaps I can settle it by saying one more thing in the direction of Mrs De Boer and then trying to sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u247	Give it a shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u248	We now know what the short-term perspective is, because for the time being, the NS is simply going to act on the basis of a strategy, unless the Chamber would say that it is completely wrong. However, the NS simply has to make decisions tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next month and therefore needs a framework. That's the new strategy. In the short term, at the request of the Chamber, we are going to develop these scenarios. There are bigger choices for the NS. If the Chamber or a new coalition or anyone else ultimately decides to change the organisation of the market and thus the position of the NS completely again, this strategy must of course be reviewed immediately. So that's what we're right about. Everything that is in it now has, in principle, limited validity, as Mr Van Boxtel noted. It has limited validity, unless the Chamber later says that it approves the current model of the main rail network with regional concessions, which will allow the strategy to continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u249	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about drawing hard lessons from the past and making choices for the future. The report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra leaves no room for ambiguity. Despite all good intentions, a great deal has gone wrong in recent years, as many Members have already recalled. The high-speed train link between Amsterdam and Brussels on a modern high-speed rail route should have become the flagship of our railways. The high-speed rail is there, even though it didn't go by itself, but the high-speed train, the Fyra, didn't get there. Much has gone wrong, because parties have failed on all sides: the government, including my department, the politicians, the members have also spoken about their own role................................................................................................................................................................................ It is clear that the promise to the traveller has not been fulfilled. The traveller is in the cold, and confidence in public transport, in the sector and in politics has suffered a very sensitive dent. We need to regain that trust. The traveller is entitled to a fast and reliable connection between Amsterdam and Brussels. The traveller is also entitled to a clear story, and that is what I am trying to give him tonight, among the members. For this reason, I would like to point out once again that this new high-speed train, as it was intended to be in the 1990s, will not be available in this concession period. That's harsh, but that's the reality. At the same time, that reality motivates me to get everything out of it in this concession period. This means that the transport on the hsl-tracé must be improved as much as possible. I will deal with all Members' questions in a moment, and I will do so through several blocks, as I have been used to. First of all, I would like to explain what this achievement and the maximum improvement in transport across the HSL line means, what the proposal means and what we can expect. I would also like to talk a little longer about market exploration, what exactly is the purpose of this and why we think it is necessary. I will then come to future market organization scenarios, then I will talk about ProRail, and I will conclude with the monitoring, which is, of course, a very important issue. I think I speak not only on behalf of the cabinet, but also on behalf of many other stakeholders, when I say that we must draw hard lessons from the report of the Committee of Inquiry. I want to make it clear that it is my commitment to make the choices in such a way that we avoid repeating the mistakes of the Fyra file. The thousands of people working every day at ProRail, the NS or elsewhere for our high-quality rail network deserve that, too. For the traveller, we must now take a step forward. This debate and its choices should be the beginning of a first step towards a renewed confidence. I think we should focus our energies on that together. I'll certainly try to do that on my part. The Minister of Finance has already said a few words about the way in which you can look back on the double hats of the Empire as a concession provider on the one hand and shareholder on the other. In view of the time and the fact that Members have already had a proper exchange of views on this matter, I do not want to devote much more time to it. There is always a strain on weighing all the different interests involved in all these choices, but it is about transparency and that the Chamber, together with the Cabinet, can make those choices. That is a very important starting point. Mr Madlener said, and I say it in his words: we actually threw 11 billion over the beam. Maybe he was a little more careful. In any case, I do not agree with it and I am going to reject it. The HSL-South is currently being exploited by domestic traffic and by the Thalys. There is therefore a high-speed rail transport service. The only question is how we can make that return even greater. That is the discussion that is now before us. I think we should do our best to do this. The proposal sent by the cabinet to the Chamber also aims to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u250	I see you at the interrupting microphone, Mr Madlener, but I suggest that the Secretary of State finish this part first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u251	You can do that with one answer. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about safeguarding the public interest. Of course it is very important. This guarantee is also the starting point for the Long Term Track Agenda. The development of scenarios will have to reflect the contribution of all scenarios to the public interest. It is quite right for Mrs Van Tongeren to take this position. I agree with her on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u252	I have chosen my words carefully in the first term. I have said that the total investment of 11 billion has largely failed. There is, of course, a line and there is indeed a fast train, the Thalys, a number of times a day. It also drives fast, but I know that the ambition, the justification for putting so much tax money into this fast line, was much higher. The ambition was that there would be fast trains all day long, that people would take the train to France instead of the plane, but nothing came of it. That line could perhaps have been built much cheaper if 200 km/h had been counted. So part of the money is wasted. There have also been exceedances. So we should not trivialise this, because a lot of taxpayers' money has just been thrown away. I admit that 11 billion may be excessive, but a very large part of it is wasted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u253	I started my contribution by clearly acknowledging that mistakes have been made. I also think it is very important to say that. I don't want to trivialize anything with that. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the suggestion that is sometimes around, namely that all that money has been put into a line that is not being used, is not true. We can help each other to ensure that this line is used to the maximum extent that it was ever intended to be used; that is what I am looking for with the Chamber. We can do that because the Thalys are running over that line. The Eurostar is also going to run over it in the long run and we need to extend the Intercity Direct that is now running on that line in the long run. That will happen because there will also be trains towards Eindhoven. We aim to maximise the use of that investment with taxpayers' money in order to make the best possible use of that line. That proposal is now here and there I am looking for with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u254	Of course, we must use that line that has cost so much money to the maximum. Everyone will agree with the Secretary of State and we will take care of the Secretary of State. Besides the hsl we also have the Betuweline, whose expectations were much higher. It should be worth a lot more. For example, there are more examples of public investment that have been done with too bright glasses. Now the question is: did the cabinet learn these lessons? When I look at the ambition for energy transition and at all the tax money put into windmills, I wonder very much whether the cabinet has really learned those lessons. I'm afraid megalomaniac plans are still being worked on. Anyway, we're going to have that debate somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u255	I now feel that I have entered the general considerations. That requires a slightly different position from both of us. You must then get the position of that one man who is in charge in your party and I must also make a little more promotion first. It's just not in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u256	The Secretary of State says that she will make the most of the investments in this concession period. I'd like to take another look at the ambition. The Secretary of State intends to do a market exploration, but we do not know what comes out of that market exploration; we have never listened to other parties. I know that a party has already made an offer in the past on that line that meets those ambitions. Does the Secretary of State believe that it is possible that we maintain the Fyra's ambition and that that is a reason to do a market exploration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u257	Mr Van Helvert says that he already knows that the other offer meets that ambition. That's the essence of the market exploration, because I don't know. At least he knows more than I do and more than a lot of people in this room, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u258	We had a nice round table in which one of the providers sat at the table. It reported that he made an offer a few years ago that meets that requirement. That offer is still there, but it has never been listened to. I am asking this question on the basis of what we were given in that round table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u259	I understand. I'll be back in the next block on the market exploration. I will therefore answer Mr Van Helvert's question, but at the moment this concession is not the way you originally wanted it to be in the 1990s. I have the historical perspective with the agreements that have always been made with the Chamber at any time but for a moment. The original bid was there in 2001. In 2011, there was an adjustment due to the imminent bankruptcy of the HSA. In 2013 an adjustment to the Chamber was proposed after the collapse of the so-called V250, alias Fyra. An alternative offer has been made in 2015, and this has been laid down very recently in a concession. That is the reference framework from which I am now working. I do not agree with Mr Madlener on all points, but surprisingly, on some points, and I would like to point out to him that the Chamber has always discussed all these changes and supported them in a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u260	If we continue to explore the market, the words spoken by the Secretary of State at the very beginning of her introduction could be interpreted as: I already know that nothing will come out of the market exploration better than what is now. Then we'd start that market exploration in a very weird way. The Secretary of State said: that fast train is not coming. You could also interpret that as: I don't see that possibility. Both Mr Van Helvert and myself were surprised by that. However, the Secretary of State has just indicated that she sees opportunities and will return to them in the course of the market exploration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u261	I said, in this concession period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u262	Yeah, but that's what we're talking about. Market exploration also involves an improvement in the supply of transport during this concession period. When we look at the market, we are talking about whether we still see opportunities to get a better supply, a faster train during this concession period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u263	I'm here to talk about that in detail in a moment. That sounds good to me. Let me start by telling you what offer there is and why we're doing it. The Committee of Inquiry has said that we must ensure a fast, reliable and affordable international connection without having to make reservations about the HSL-South. At the same time, we must tackle the problems with the national IC directly on the HSL-South. The cabinet will strongly steer both the realisation of the offer and the improvement of performance. Mr Van Helvert asked that and I think it is right. What do we do now to improve the offer? We agree with NS on an improvement of the transport offer over the hsl. At the heart of this is the fact that more trains are going to run completely over the HSL between Amsterdam and Brussels. Asked what the improvement is. The travel time to Brussels is reduced by about half an hour for the traveller. NS is working out that offer right now. And yes, there is indeed attention to the fact that The Hague is not at fault. You can find all kinds of things, but that's the way it is and no different. The number of travellers from The Hague is one in ten travelers in the IC Brussels. The commitment is to continue serving The Hague directly four times a day. The renewed offer must be workable, but also reliable. At first we do what the Netherlands can do, but of course we also talk to the Belgian government. I did so in detail yesterday; I will tell you more about it in a moment. In the past, this has proved to be extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u264	I'll see if the Secretary of State is done with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u265	I'll really come back to The Hague. I do not know whether Mrs Van Veldhoven's question concerns this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u266	Is that one in ten in rush hour? Or is that an average all day long?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u267	I assume it's an average all day long. I'll check it out and I'll get back to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u268	It would be interesting to know that number in rush hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u269	In rush hour, of course, we also deliver the offer. That's based on that for a reason. Even that's what we're gonna solve with the proposal. We're also dealing with problems with the ICU directly. 60% of these problems are due to NS. A major improvement programme has now been drawn up for this purpose. That's really chefsache. One of the components concerns the dedicated drivers, as it is so beautifully called, who have experience and specialization on this line. Machinists say to me: we're all dedicated, right? I agree with them, but that is the term used. I think you've all been on the goat once. You have on the line not only the hills, but also the multiple security systems that are really complex. That requires expertise and NS is working on it. We also have the hard wind on the Brug Hollandsch Diep. We are also going to test the performance potential independently at the point of failure, so that we can indeed steer sharply. That's important. Then we do not have to go into Mrs Van Tongeren's proverbs. I don't remember what she said exactly. Mother pie? What was it? At least it has to be clear. Apple pie, that's it. In addition, we can see that there will be faster trains on the hsl: next to the existing Thalys the Eurostar. In addition, there are no other high-speed trains on the HSL-South. Furthermore, the ICNG, which is scheduled to be on the domestic service in 2021, may be able to drive to Belgium later. That's what NS and SNCB are talking about right now. The difference between 2013 and now is that we indeed book a time saving of half an hour for the traveler. In addition, the hsl is used more intensively. I think it's also important to say that. In cabinet response on page 4, we have placed a state in which the Chamber can check that more accurately. Mr Bruins said that skipping The Hague offers profits, but that skipping Breda also offers profits. That's right. Indeed, using Breda less time will lead to a reduction in the number of passengers in the IC directly. For this reason, therefore, it has been looked at everywhere, and that is simply not a sensible proposal. It is therefore not in the interests of the traveller to skip Breda. Some 23% of travellers come from the Breda region. I think it's good to keep an eye on that. For The Hague, the figures are different. 10% of travellers come from The Hague. So we need to find a balance. We must continue to connect The Hague with Brussels. I understand why Mrs Van Veldhoven says so. and we must do so at the same time in a way that relates to the number of passengers and the moment when there is a need. For example, if you started driving more from The Hague, the direct trains from Amsterdam and Schiphol Airport would become very full. As of 2017, passengers from The Hague will be able to get to Brussels faster if they switch to Breda station. It will be examined how this can be designed as easily as possible for travellers. So that's what they're really up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u270	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State, seeing people at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u271	Do you want me to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u272	That's what I'd like to suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u273	Good. I will now come to Belgium on my own. I spoke with Minister Bellot yesterday, as I did before. Yesterday I signed with him a statement in which we agreed to examine, among other things, how we could further improve the connections between the Netherlands and Belgium. To this end, we have agreed to set up a joint working group involving, of course, carriers. We're gonna look at adjusting the operation and making it more compatible with timetables. I think it is important to say that the Belgian government does not control SNCB on long-distance international connections. That makes the reasoning that they may have to do everything on that line there, just a bit more complicated than everyone thinks. This is seen as liberalised transport. We also found in that conversation that, although I have now written this in reply to the written questions, I do not see any possibility of deleting, for example, Zaventem, there are possibilities of looking at how we can better link the timetables together in order to make more time savings. That, however, requires a great deal. You must imagine that these timetables are huge puzzles. They must therefore be put together somewhere, without causing very serious problems for domestic transport. The fact is that the carriers are in a good and constructive way, and that the two national authorities are committed not only to this line, but also to Liege, just like Maastricht and Aachen, that they are going to work better together. I see that, after all the years in which it was sometimes different, as very hopeful. I think that is very important and I think we should put a lot of energy into it. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the KPIs. She asked how only one indicator can be added and whether KPIs can be replaced. Indeed, it was agreed in the concession that one performance indicator could be added. But Mrs Van Veldhoven had, of course, thought wisely about it when she said that you might also be able to exchange one. I'd say "true," that's possible. I have also promised that I will indeed look at the whole set of KPIs, because I feel that in that concession we sometimes do not just steer what is most important for travellers. This means that we can also look at replacing performance indicators with better indicators, and I have already promised to come back to that later this year. Mrs Van Veldhoven also suggested that we look at whether the last intercity could drive to Brussels later. NS, as I have said, is now working on the timetable for 2018 and that is all starting now, because that all takes time and I think it is a good suggestion to look at what time these trains are running. I think it is necessary for us to involve consumer organisations in this, because it is also worth something if a train runs every hour according to a fixed pattern, but these are things that you can ultimately weigh with each other. NS must therefore give an opinion on this with a view to the question of what is possible and what exactly that means. Then I come to the reservation obligation, which several Members of Parliament have spoken about. Travellers do not need to book to travel to Brussels with the intercity. Moreover, travellers can also purchase subscriptions valid up to the border in both countries. With two separate subscriptions, a traveller is more advantageous than with one integrated subscription, and that is simply due to the contribution of the Belgian government to the price of the domestic train tickets. Then I come to the supplement that Mr Bruins spoke of. He asked why people still pay a surcharge for the Intercity directly. This was agreed with the Chamber in 2013, I would just like to say. That surcharge was agreed then because there is also a regular route, and it just takes longer. This route is faster and that's what you're paying for. We come from a situation where the HSA, the predecessor, even had tariff freedom for national and international transport. Now we have, as it were, Maximized that. In rush hour the tickets could actually have been even more expensive than they are now. If I had to take the supplement off now, that means that I have to talk to NS again about the financial balance sheet in the transport concession, and that obviously has consequences. I don't see the benefit of that right now. Then I'll be on the train as an alternative to the plane. Carriers are indeed free to introduce, for example, to Belgium and further in the framework of open access rail services. We do have agreements with NS about the number of Thalys trains to Brussels and Paris and the estimated travel time. In the longer term, in the long term, this is mainly about market demand, and when market demand on these train lines also increases internationally, there is, of course, an even better supply. I can tell Mrs Van Tongeren that she wants to interrupt, and I say to Mrs Van Tongeren that perhaps you will be even happier than you think now. 'Cause I want that question, what exactly does that mean? In fact, they should be included in the market exploration. I think that would be wise. So you see again, sometimes you have to wait and you get a better result. Both Mr Hoogland and Mrs De Boer have asked questions about the infrastructure measures at the bridge in connection with the wind. Mr Hoogland asked how it is possible that the bridge does not have a construction error, but there is often a hard wind. When it was built, it was already known that the bridge was wind sensitive. For this reason, a wind warning system has already been installed at the time of commissioning. This choice is based on a cost-benefit analysis. That was important to say at the time, because we are now going back in time in line with the then European rules. The system has been modified several times in recent years. The wind sensitivity caused problems in 2015. That was a so-called wind-sensitive year. I can't help it either; that's what's happening. By the way, that's only 10% the explanation for the downfall. That's important, because people think it's the cause. No. There are a lot of other causes, so it takes a lot more than just doing something about this. Mrs De Boer asked: how are you going to pay for investment in infrastructure if the adjustment of the supply provides less money than we now think on the basis of the figures? In any case, we will have the costs and benefits of infrastructure measures assessed in advance, so that we can effectively assess whether they are sensible. We will be clear about this this autumn. I'll show the Chamber that, too. If the financial result gets better by adjusting the offer to Belgium, in the sense that it leads to an increase in the concession price, then that is a good thing, because then we can use it to improve the infrastructure. Otherwise, an investment we are going to make because it is efficient will have to come from the infrastructure fund's free space. That is what we are going to talk about tomorrow, because that free space remains under stress despite the extension of the MIRT. So those are never easy choices. That's the way it is. Finally, Mr Bruins asked: do you see opportunities for traveling to Almere, Vlissingen and so on in the longer term? The ambition to tackle these longer-term opportunities is always good in itself. The NS is also looking at further improvements in the timetable for linking these cities and regions even more closely, but it is important that we start by ensuring that the transport we are aiming for on the HSL becomes optimal. The Chamber may agree with me that this is not an entirely unwise priority. End of block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u274	I see everyone walking to the interrupting microphone. I didn't maximize the number of interruptions. It is not the intention to interfere endlessly, but only where it is necessary. Don't repeat yourself. That would help the debate, I hope. I see everyone nodding yes, so everyone agrees. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u275	We are all in the process of providing an even better solution for the traveller through this debate, so we all share your conclusion, Mr President. A traveler who still gets hurt is the traveler from The Hague. I understand a number of considerations that are being made. If an average of one in ten passengers arrives from The Hague every day, it is not the hsl, and if you have to look at what you do with the Benelux train, then I understand that a consideration has been made. Only, that traveler from The Hague has no profit at all. It's just gotten worse. He had a Benelux train. It now has a Benelux train that takes even longer. He had a whole bunch of them a day. Now he's only got four. And as soon as that train crosses the border, it stops seven more times. Surely there must be something to be gained for travellers from The Hague? I guarantee the Secretary of State that there are many more travellers in rush hour than one in ten. In the morning and evening there is a concentration of travellers who go to Brussels and come back again. For those travellers too, we must be able to get a little more out of it. In the written reply on Zaventem, the Secretary of State said two things, namely that SNCB could not do so, but that it was not desirable either. And then I think: if it can't be done, it can't be done where the king isn't, he loses his rights, but about what's not wanted, then we can have another discussion. For the traveller from The Hague that would certainly be very desirable. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that the traveller from The Hague gets even better in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u276	I am really fighting the image that Mrs Van Veldhoven is putting here right now. Look, it's also basically hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo. That goes for all of us. It should be noted that in the discussion about the maximum use of the hsl, it was not chosen to allow the hsl to pass through The Hague. That has been a huge political discussion. The Hague was also very angry about that; perhaps I can also imagine. So we've been working on sticking a Band-Aid, as it were. I have also thought: if I were to say that we always do everything through the hsl, point, then I am going to get to the very heart of Mrs Van Veldhoven's problem. That is the question: what are you doing with the traveller who has to travel to Brussels, especially in rush hour, from The Hague? In order to meet this, also in view of the fact that there is the biggest problem, we have laid down the offer as it is. You can change that running, but that also means something for travellers from Amsterdam. After all, it has to come from the length or width. I come now to the second point, about Belgium. Yes, we would very much like to look together with the Belgian government at the possibilities it sees for an even better offer. How can we jointly book travel time savings all over that line? That was the heart of yesterday's discussion between Minister Bellot and me. There are many options for that. So that doesn't necessarily have to be one or the other station. There are also other possibilities, for example better linking timetables. I say to Mrs van Veldhoven: make sure that we continue to have a good conversation, especially there, so that we can also take advantage of this profit in advance of the timetables that are now being made. Let us not go from the Netherlands and decide how the Belgians do it with their stations. My thesis is: I just have a better story, also in the direction of Belgium, now that I am willing to leave a feather too. With this ferry I have to say that the train from The Hague is no longer about it. I really need to correct that. From 2017 onwards I've just said it.I think you'll be faster in Brussels as well if you switch to Breda. Of course, then, we must make sure that the switch is a very pleasant one. Mrs Van Veldhoven knows as an experienced train traveller that a pleasant change is easy and that there are also some complicated changes. I think it's just the transporter's expertise to take good care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u277	Yes, and as an experienced train traveler, I also know all reports indicate that also from......................................................................................................................................................................... But we're not talking about those four trains turning into 10 trains in one go. Let that be clear. I understand the Secretary of State made a decision there. I am glad that this direct train is offered in rush hour. I agree with this. It would be very nice, I would like to leave the Secretary of State there all the flexibility, space and creativity for him to reduce in any way, whatever she chooses, the travel time of those four trains for passengers from The Hague. My question to her is whether she is prepared to ensure that passengers from The Hague, with the few trains they still have, are also making progress, or by booking a travel time gain, or by passing a later train. That's my question to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u278	I don't know if I can promise that that way. I have just promised that I will consult the Belgian authorities and SNCB, with the NS, in order to see how we can coordinate timetables in such a way that the Belgian carrier makes the choices in them, it is up to him that we should be able to book additional travel time gains in addition to the proposal as we now put it. In theory, there are those possibilities. So it's also a matter of getting together at some point. I bet on that, but that is really different than making a separate proposal for the traveller from The Hague. I already indicated to Mrs Van Veldhoven that if that traveller changes in Breda, he will be there ten minutes faster. So, in fact, I am already answering Mrs Van Veldhoven's question, but there is a change of heart. She says that the perception is that the travel time is longer, but in practice it will prove to be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u279	I've got two major irritations. The first one is about that train that D66 wants to drive back and forth between The Hague and Brussels all the time. They call that "the civil service train." I think it's really crazy for words to say that we're sitting here about overpaid civil servants, while the ordinary traveller is on a crowded train. Can I say that these Brussels officials are really getting paid a lot? All they have to do is change in Rotterdam. You can take the metro to Rotterdam these days. You can also take the train to Rotterdam. It's just a little bit and all you have to do is switch. That's it! And then we're here to rig up a very special train, how much does it cost? D66's. I hold my heart, because the boss of the NS is also a D66, and he also wants his D66 officials to travel to Brussels at taxpayers' expense. I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u280	Mr President, may I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u281	I'm gonna do it myself. 'Cause I felt that coming. We are now having a debate with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u282	My second irritation is about the Belgians. The Secretary of State will do everything in his power to improve the connection between the Netherlands and Belgium. The Netherlands also does everything in its power to deepen the Westerschelde. But what do the Belgians do? They are going to introduce toll charges to turn the Dutch motorists out of business. Why doesn't the Secretary of State discuss this with the Belgians in conclave? Let them say: stop the tolling to hunt the Dutch at a cost! That is what the Belgians want. They're chasing the Dutch driver at a cost. I do not think that the Secretary of State should improve rail transport with the Belgians without this aspect being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u283	Before I give you the floor, Secretary of State, I would like to say something. Mr Madlener, you mentioned Mr Van Boxtel a few times and mentioned his political colour a few times, but we are now engaged in a debate between the Chamber and the Secretary of State. Mr Van Boxtel is not taking part in this debate and is therefore unable to defend himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u284	Perhaps I should add from the point of view of substance that Mr Madlener's reasoning is not really working. The proposal that would have been followed by the NS is that it is, in fact, most of all, always driven over the HSL, because it will make the most of the profits. If, therefore, Mr Madlener wishes to appeal to anyone about the fact that four more times a day have to be driven from The Hague to Brussels, then he must be with me. In fact, I brought that proposal into the consultation process. I also believe that this does justice to what is necessary for travellers. At the same time, I believe that we should also organise it in such a way that we should not allow travellers from Amsterdam or elsewhere to experience a problem because we also want to do something between The Hague and Brussels at rush hour. I think it is a good thing to mention this point of substance. As far as Belgium is concerned, I believe that Mr Madlener and my Minister are often holding enough debates on this other subject, as I would say so beautifully. There is a report from the Chamber, of which I believe the PVV group chairman has also supported the main conclusion, namely: make sure that the survey report on this subject is improved for the passenger on the railway. So Mr Madlener will not blame me if I do have a discussion with the Belgian colleague on that point. If I am going to include all kinds of other dossiers, I am not actually doing what the Chamber has just asked me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u285	I am very upset about the tolling in Belgium, because it has only one purpose, namely the Dutch citizen. That's just a fact. And that while the Netherlands is at the same time digging out the Westerschelde to be for the sake of the Belgians. That's what's happening here. I do think that we should say to the Belgians: what you are doing here, we do not want to; let us talk about it properly. We need to put pressure on the Belgians so that the toll doesn't get there. I would ask the Secretary of State to do so in agreement with the Minister. Because the minister says to do it, but at the same time I don't hear the Secretary of State about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u286	But the Chamber has also hired me for something else, just to stay in Mr Madlener's terms, and that is exactly what I am doing. Now I do, and then it's not good. I don't think it's possible. In other words, I don't think you're achieving anything with this kind of attitude. The point is that, for the first time in years, we are achieving a breakthrough on this dossier with our Belgian friends in favour of the train traveller. I'm working on that. I also invest in this, including in the personal contacts with my Belgian colleague who is talking about rail. This means that the Netherlands is delivering to improve that connection from Amsterdam to Brussels and further, and that the Netherlands, of course, also asks in that conversation: can this be done in Belgium? Besides, it just helps that you're having that conversation with each other. The funny thing is that, in that Europe in which Mr Madlener and I both live, this is usually the most effective route in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u287	We are already very much in the nitty-gritty of a certain connection, and in it or not in the Dutch Deep blowing. I would like to ask another fundamental question about market exploration, unless the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u288	I'm gonna be talking about that in a block. In principle, too, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u289	Then I shall put my question to you for a moment, otherwise it will all get so restless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u290	I thought I'd start with the traveler and start with the offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u291	Yeah, here's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u292	I had the feeling that we were already in implementation details and I thought: if the essence of the issue comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u293	Yes, but also about all the detailed details have just been asked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u294	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u295	But by the order I thought, is that gonna happen, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u296	It's coming, really. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u297	I'd like to seduce the Secretary of State one more time to take a look at that supplement. Normally you have to choose the shortest route at the NS and now the people have that opportunity, because there is a normal intercity between Amsterdam and Rotterdam. If we take that extra charge off, maybe there will be more travellers, because then they get the feeling that it is a regular line. He's not going any faster than that either. So maybe it'll even pay off. So why wouldn't it be a nice experiment just to try to agree without that supplement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u298	Mr Bruins also looks forward to his most tempting addition, but I am afraid that is not an additional argument. I just explained to him why I can't and won't do it now. I have no argument for suddenly thinking differently. The Chamber has made this decision on its own before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u299	If my seductive look doesn't help, I might have another argument. The intercity between Amersfoort and Zwolle, the intercity between Amersfoort and Apeldoorn and the intercity between's-Hertogenbosch and Utrecht have on average a higher speed than the intercity between Amsterdam and Rotterdam through the tunnel. Isn't that a reason to say: it's just an intercity; we're taking him away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u300	No. Mr Bruins is right that, especially for domestic transport, the performance of the IC is directly below the mark. That's right; that's absolutely true. That is one of the reasons why we are now putting so much effort into improving it. We are also making it dependent on whether the proposals before us are really the most effective. Where Mr Bruins and I find each other, we can do much better on that journey for the traveller on balance. However, I cannot remove in advance a surcharge previously agreed. I wouldn't know how to financially fold that. That story's part of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u301	We now move on to the subject that Mr Smaling is waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u302	Yes, I understand, Mr. Chairman. That's the market exploration. In the past, there has been a lot of debate about whether or not to tender. I've outlined the historical perspective. In the meantime, it is said in itself in the Chamber that we are not going to re-contract during this concession. I'm not gonna do that, because I can't just cancel the contract with NS. It is only possible to do this, and then I will actually come to Mrs De Boer's report when there is a misperformance and the so-called 'three strikes out' story. It has been promised that research will be carried out into railway organisation and market operation scenarios for the period after 2024. Of course, we are also explicitly looking at the hsl. I do not want to anticipate the outcome of these scenarios now. After all, the Chamber asked for these results to be obtained in the spring. Furthermore, the Chamber has said: make sure that a choice can be made in a subsequent cabinet term. Moreover, it has already been promised that no later than the mid-term review of the concession in 2019, it will be determined whether a tender for the concession is open after 2024. The performance of NS, the effects of decentralisation and the growth of the HSL supply are then important criteria. So either after the scenario study or after the midterm review, the decision can be made to re-dedicate the hsl. That is ultimately a political decision. Afterwards, concrete preparations can be made to re-dedicate the hsl concession. What exactly is the situation with regard to market exploration? Why is it necessary? A number of Members have asked for this. I want more clarity on the performance and services that parties other than NS could provide on the HSL South. With this we can stimulate NS to go to the limit to improve performance. With the results of the market exploration, we can work with NS to see if there is a good addition to the services of NS, which ultimately makes a better product for the traveller. After all, it was us to do the traveler. Market exploration is not the start of a tender. That's important to say. But it is a serious exploration of the possibilities other carriers have. This morning, the ACM Chamber heard that this should always take place in a way that recognises and safeguards the competition-sensitive aspects. Depending on the outcome, this can eventually lead to cooperation with NS, for example, within the transport concession. This may also provide insights that are important for the possible use of an ultimate remedium, namely to withdraw the hsl part of the transport concession. People talk about three strikes and ask what that means. Earlier tonight there was also talk of barking, but not biting. If you ever want to bite, my point is that it might be useful to know if you can do that. It is not the case that NS does or leads the market exploration because that's a bit of a suggestion or that the data ends up with the director of NS at the office and that he can go shopping in it to his heart's content, to put it very flat. That's not how we're gonna do it. It is true that it gives the State an insight into what could be a real offer. We will have that looked at independently, partly through a desk, so that we can check whether an offer is too rosy or not. That seems to me to be important for two reasons. First of all, it must be considered whether the performances that are now being delivered can be characterised as a form of underperformance. If so, we need to step up the demands we make on NS. Should we ever find ourselves in a three strikes situation, I would like to know if I can get something in return which is better if I finally have to withdraw the concession. That is why the market exploration is really important. This gives us a better understanding of what might be possible in terms of performance. It is not the case that companies reveal their secrets or that they, as it were, fall into the hands of NS. If there are companies that think they can do better, and I know them, then this is the time to show them. We can do that through this market exploration. We will set it up in such a way that it will also safeguard the position of the company and the competitive sensitivities involved, because that seems completely fair to me. So I invite other carriers to make their contribution. It's up to them to show that they can do better. They shouldn't show that to the director of NS, they should show it to me. Then who would object to that? I'd like to know. Why can't I do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u303	Suddenly it was quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u304	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u305	I am going to give the floor to Mr Smaling, who has so far hardly interfered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u306	Was this the end of the block? I'm so used to those blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u307	Yeah, almost, but I'll take the rest in my answer. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u308	What I want to raise is the choice at all to do such a market exploration. With all the wisdom of the past 25 years, with all due respect for the survey report, but at some point you don't remember. What are you gonna do? It's a market exploration. There are all kinds of scenarios in front of it now. I can imagine that this is going to create a lot of unrest again, when there is such a need for peace. Does the Secretary of State think it is a good idea at all to do such a market exploration in the situation we are now in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u309	There's this unrest. I agree with the premise that it is important for the railways to bring that peace back. Now we see that everything is literally hovering over the market, but as I said just now, no one knows for sure whether that is a real offer. I also have something to do with something that your Chamber has once again said in a majority, namely: three strikes and you're out. At the moment when you find yourself in such a situation, I think it is important, also as a state government and also as a concessional provider, to know if if those three strikes are actually on the agenda, I can also look forward to another and better offer. The Chamber itself set that rule. There is no doubt that Mr Smaling did not agree at the time, but he is there. And then you have to formulate an answer to that. It is said by all kinds of carriers that they could do much better. Then this is the time to show that you can do that, too, and you really don't have to do that under circumstances that get your company in trouble, because I would think that's wrong. We have to ensure that and we will, but we will have to get that discussion straight. If the Chamber itself proposes such a measure and asks me to bite at some point, then I would like to make sure that this is going to work. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u310	Isn't the Secretary of State afraid that she's causing something completely bluffed, promising things that can't be done in any way? Look back at the whole process. Minister Zalm has announced golden mountains through the public procurement of the HSL-South. That didn't work out at all. Prime Minister Kok said, when he was asked in Other Times what he looked back on with less pleasure, that too much was liberalised during Purple II. In retrospect, all the conclusions do not call for this path to be re-elected. It is clear that the Secretary of State does not yet choose a path, but the suggestion that there can be a path that is absolutely not desirable if you look back at the past 25 years, is now twilighting again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u311	No, because in order not to promise things that cannot be fulfilled or that are too rosy, we must have them tested independently. Of course, we're watching for ourselves. This reduces the chance that people can play a role in this. What Mr Smaling says is justified. That is where we need to be very precise. I agree with him that we should not allow ourselves to be cast in the eyes. For this reason, I will ensure that market exploration is set up seriously, that it can be assessed and that it can be realised. If that is not the case, then we must draw our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u312	I have three brief questions about this block. I think this is an important point, and that is precisely why I have requested a hearing on this matter with a body which I will not mention by name because it cannot justify itself here. My first question concerns the market consultation in which other parties are allowed to take part. What changed compared to 2013, when that proposal was also made and the cabinet said we weren't going to do that? What's really changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u313	Mr Van Helvert is using a different word than I am. He's talking about a market consultation. That's a formal, first step when you start a tender. We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u314	That was question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u315	That's a nice formal answer. I'll rephrase...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u316	No, that's a factual answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u317	No, no, that's all a bit of a twist. Why weren't other parties allowed to think along at the time, and now they are? What's changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u318	The Chamber found it, weighing everything, by majority a real proposal from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u319	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u320	Yet that is strange, because at that time the situation was equally dramatic and there had to be an alternative. Then it was said: let other parties think along. It's been waved away. The Cabinet may say that the Chamber has swept it away, but before the Chamber did, the Cabinet itself betrayed it. So the cabinet has also chosen to wave that proposal away and is now hiding behind the Chamber. So that's obviously how the Secretary of State wants to do it now. My next question is about three strikes out. This is an essential point. What's three strikes out? Is that if you don't function properly for three weeks in a row, three loose turns, three months, or can't you do it at the earliest after three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u321	The latter has been presented to the Chamber very precisely in the written reply. I can still get the answers. It has been reported that it is about performance, that it must be about the same performance and that it must be done consecutively. I'm gonna have to grab the answers just to say it again. Those appointments have been made more accurately with the Chamber. On the first point, I don't want to hide or faint; not at all. At the time, I think the previous cabinet made a different assessment. This also concerned the discussion at the time about what might have to be done with part of the rest of the main rail network, because the carrier said at the time: I might want to do more on that too. All in all, there was a build-up of trade-offs which has been said: we do not do that. That was discussed here and approved by a majority. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u322	The Secretary of State clearly explains why she wants that market exploration. She says we can either fix it or if we're at the end of three strikes out. Then we also have a picture of whether things are getting better at all. Then, of course, it is very important that we have the idea that the design of this market exploration is such that we get a real picture of what is possible. The constellation of this market exploration is that the NS will first have the opportunity to do it and that it might then become sub-contractors. In order to get something good out of it, a very careful arrangement is required. I'm just gonna say it briefly. Maybe we can't discuss it all in detail tonight. When does the Secretary of State intend to give the Chamber an idea of how it intends to organise that market exploration? Can we talk to her about that so that we have a shared view of how we're going to do it? Then we will not have the debate afterwards that she should have set it up differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u323	I think I can send a letter to the Chamber just after the summer. I have not put this into effect before because I understand very well that it is sensitive. You can see that in the debate. There are also people who ask me why I didn't do it long ago. That is because the subject is a political debate. If we take such a step, I think it would be a good idea to include the Chamber in the process as much as possible. Once again, transparency comes first. I think it is important for the Chamber to be able to weigh that up with me. Is that well-equipped? Is that secure? Let us send the Chamber that letter after the summer. Then the Chamber can judge that with me. That's what I'd like to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u324	I thank the Secretary of State for this commitment. I too think it is logical that the Secretary of State has not done all of this, because this is the first time that we are talking about the cabinet response. So after the summer I think it's excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u325	I still see you standing, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u326	I hadn't asked a follow-up question about the point of the three strikes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u327	You asked four questions. Anyway, ask your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u328	I have three questions about this, because this is an essential point. I did not ask any questions in the previous block, so please allow me to do so. I understand it's late. I read that part about three strikes out in the answer. I am asking questions about this because I did not think it was explicitly clear. If I understand correctly, they have to make the same mistake three years in a row in the same place. So can it happen that the delay on the piece is caused by leaves one year, the next year by doors that open and the following year by wind on a bridge? Then you have three different mistakes, but three delays in one piece. Could that be an excuse from the NS next time? I understand that these are a few childish examples, but unfortunately they are examples from practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u329	What are your other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u330	I will do them all in one go. Other parties can come up with an offer and then we'll see how we do it. I wonder if the Secretary of State has any idea how much work it is for another party to come up with a decent offer. The Secretary of State is going to assess with an entire ministry whether it is decent and then the NS can also check whether it is decent for the NS itself to implement it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u331	Again, I do not think that the latter is a very fair picture. It's not like the NS can go shopping on me. That's what I just said. We really need to understand each other. Nor would that do justice to the position of the others. I do know that's a lot of work. Others say they've been ready for years. Mr Van Helvert is one of the members of the House who makes every effort to do so. If it's been ready for years, I'd like to see it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u332	The Secretary of State saw that. In the round table, she said so herself. This Secretary of State has already had a conversation with one of those providers as some sort of acquaintance when she arrived. That was said in the round table. Then we presented the proposal. It's just on the table. It's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u333	Let me put it this way: the proposal as it apparently stands does not, for me, have enough depth to really assess whether it would be a real alternative at all. I would like that to be judged. I have indeed had an introductory meeting with one of the carriers. In that the carrier confirmed to me once again: we could do much better. Then we asked: what are the conditions, if any? They talked to me about that, but that was a private conversation, so I'd rather not dwell on it too much. If they really think they can do better, they should give us the opportunity to test it. We must do this with respect for the company and independently and not in a way that will cause problems in terms of competition, because I would not find that fair with Mr Van Helvert. I don't think there's anything wrong with us getting it tested for real. What are the consequences of this three strikes principle? The answer to question 16 states that it is a question of repeatedly scoring below the bottom value of the same performance indicator. In 2015, NS scored below the bottom value for the performance indicator "Transport capacity HSL-South services'. By the way, the company did not score below the bottom value "visitor punctuality." That's the answer. I think that reply was given last March in an extensive letter. All this has already been shared with the Chamber, discussed and concluded, if I may be so bold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u334	Very briefly and punctually: the Secretary of State asked who could be against a market exploration. I don't think anyone's against it. I understand the Secretary of State would like to have such a reconnaissance. What causes the Secretary of State to think that the market players would want to do the same? What is the advantage for Arriva or any company to present a plan in the knowledge that it will almost certainly not be its turn until 2024, unless those three strikes out are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u335	Because they keep saying they want to show that they can do better. They're asking for it. I cannot start a new tender now, but I want to do justice to others' remark that they can do better. If it is true that performance can be better delivered in collaboration with NS, then of course one can also purchase the line at the bottom as it were. There's nothing against that. With this one can take a piece of the service within the concession. There is indeed the possibility that not only does one show its value, but also actually an effect of it when one joins in with such a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u336	Then there must be some form of entrapment to get those companies to do so. The Secretary of State will see that, too. I think it's a good thing we're about to discuss this entrapment. The Secretary of State must also make a commitment to the companies. Is that what she's up to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u337	No, I don't intend to. I have already said that I do not promise in advance that we will be contracting. The Chamber itself said that the scenarios should first be looked at. Only then will we know what the order of the track will be. The first momentum that has always been shown to revisit whether to tender after 2024 is the midterm review of 2019. It is possible that the scenarios prepared by the Chamber may lead to a ruling rather than a decision. That is, of course, in a subsequent cabinet period to the Chamber that will then sit and the cabinet. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. I have only made it clear that the Chamber has introduced the three strikes out principle earlier on the initiative of Mrs De Boer. This means that, in the event of underperformance, a transport concession could be partially withdrawn, in this case on the line. At a time like this, a market exploration is an important tool. Mr Houwers agrees with me on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u338	I'd like to join in on this. Who are we doing this market exploration for? What's its purpose? The aim is not to do that three strikes out because there is nothing, no, the aim is to answer the question of how we can make a better offer for the traveller. That's the monkey that gets the NS on the shoulder. The NS will have to meet those new performance indicators that come out of it. That will also be the basis for the three strikes out. If the NS cannot comply with it or if the NS cannot employ another carrier, the three strikes out will automatically enter into force. We will then have to make that offer with another carrier. So I'd like to go back to the purpose of the market exploration. Yeah, the target is the traveler. Yes, the goal is to define the new performance of the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u339	As Mrs De Boer says, it is very important that we do this primarily for the benefit of the traveller. This has always been the starting point of the Committee of Inquiry. It is also important that it is our starting point for the concession to be granted to the NS. You support all of that. None of you are saying: we should start contracting now. That's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u340	That's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u341	That's not entrapment. You said you wanted to arrange it for the new concession period, or did I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u342	Mr Helvert, you can only explain. I'm really going to limit the number of interruptions, because this is getting out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u343	But this is an essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u344	Everything we discuss here is essential. You and Mrs van Veldhoven have really put in a lot of interruptions, but it cannot be the case that after every sentence questions are asked again. I would like you to take that into account. So far, the Secretary of State has spoken for 26 minutes and has responded to interruptions for an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u345	Okay. That's right, but that's part of a debate. I will limit myself as much as I can. The Secretary of State says you don't want to sign it all now. I think it's best to sign it now, but everyone says it costs a lot of money. If the NS recognizes that after fifteen years it cannot deliver a decent product and if the NS says it allows someone who can do better than they, then... Of course, conditions will be attached to it as taking over staff and trains and what more they are. If the NS sees her mistakes and says she'll allow someone to do better, then... If the NS says she'll have the traveler on one from now on and she'll give back her assignment if anyone can do better, then I say: fine. Because the Secretary of State repeats so many times "you say we're not going to tender," it seems that I'd rule it out, too, but I certainly don't rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u346	I'm not going over your point of view. I am mainly concerned with my own position, but I have always listened to it in the debate. I believe that you have made it very clear, including in the media, that this is the period after 2024. You want to make your point now, and that is your right, but I would say: let us actually put the scenarios, which you also say we should put them in the picture, into the picture. On that basis, you can then decide what the railway order should look like. If you do not see this as a starting point for the decision what to do with the concession after 2024, I would also point out that we have agreed with each other that we will use the midterm review in 2019. Then we're still five years ahead of the end of the concession, and I really think that's early enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u347	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u348	Mr. Chairman. I'll get to it now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u349	Sorry, Mrs. De Boer. You did indeed have a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u350	Mr. Van Helvert actually came cycling in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u351	I've seen that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u352	I have not yet received a full answer to my question. That monkey, the results of the market exploration, needs to get the NS on the shoulder. That's what the NS has to do and that's also the basis for the three strikes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u353	But within the terms of the concession we have agreed with the NS. I would add that, because the March letter sets out the exact conditions under which such a thing can be done, how it should be done and for whom responsibility for a number of things must be taken. I say that as a package leaflet, but of course Mrs De Boer knows that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u354	I am not going to discuss which conditions apply or do not. If the outcome of the market exploration is that the supply on the hsl can be improved and that the supply needs to increase, the NS will have to comply with it. I am not going to discuss what conditions are or are not included in the concession. If the outcome is that the offer can be improved, the NS, within the terms of the concession fee and dividend arrangements, will have to deliver that performance. This is also a clear conclusion from the Committee of Inquiry, which we must take to heart, because we are talking about the traveller who has been forgotten in the past. That is the starting point and it is not therefore a question of whether or not it falls within the terms of the concession. No, the offer that comes out counts!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u355	Mrs De Boer herself has now indicated that there are a number of conditions, and I think that is right. She mentioned the dividend and the like. It is also about the profitability of the whole story. We will always bear that in mind. It has to be a real story in the end, and we have to be able to fit it in. But let us be clear about the government's commitment. We don't do it for nothing. We're really not doing a market exploration to ignore her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u356	I respond with a very brief remark, then I will stop interrupting, Mr President. As far as I am concerned, market exploration should take into account what is feasible. That's what the market exploration is for. What comes out of the market exploration is feasible, and we must put it on the hsl for the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u357	I don't want to turn it into a word game. Of course, we will look into the market exploration to see if it is a real offer. That is why we want an independent test to be carried out. Whether it is a real offer has to do with the financial adaptability and the question whether it is really better for the traveller. Once again, I will make sure that the Chamber receives a letter on this after the summer. In that, Mrs De Boer can read very precisely whether this is happening entirely in her mind. Mr. Chairman. That's how I get to the scenes of track-ordering. The Committee of Inquiry recommends that scenarios be developed, and so will the cabinet this year. Four main scenarios are being developed for the market organisation after 2024, and we are looking at the whole spectrum, to put it briefly. On one side of the spectrum, we are developing a scenario whereby the entire rail network is awarded directly to NS. On the other side of the spectrum, I'm working out a scenario where the rail network is divided into several lots and is publicly tendered. I would say to Mr Madlener, who asked for this, that we will indeed look seriously at all the scenarios, and will also assess the effects on the traveller, on the day-to-day execution of transport and on the cost of it. I think that's quite right. Of course, the division of roles within the Empire is also mentioned, because my colleague from the Treasury, the shareholder, is involved from his part, while I am involved on the part of public transport. The aim of the investigation is to clarify for all parties how the public interest of a good and affordable rail transport system can be safeguarded and what market organisation fits in with it. The public interest immediately brings me to Mrs Van Tongeren's comments, to whom I promised to mention them. There is that public interest. How we are going to do it is and will remain a political choice. Perhaps I can say that the debate on this subject, which I have experienced for a number of years from a different role in the Chamber, has actually been the same for years. When it comes to rest on the track, perhaps it would be a good thing if we could make a clear choice in this matter at some point, which will no longer be the case in this cabinet period, for a longer period of time, and do so. If you look from a distance at all the debates we have with each other, you actually see the pendulum swinging back and forth every time. This is sometimes quite difficult for people who have to do their jobs on a daily basis. It is important that the research is carried out independently, I say to Mrs De Boer and Mr Madlener. At the beginning of next year, I will tell Mrs Van Veldhoven that this research must be completed. I say to Mr Smaling: yes, we are also going to take things that have already been investigated. This should provide a good basis for a future-proof choice. I'll be back on ProRail in a separate block. Mrs De Boer asked why I did not take exactly the scenarios of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. We have translated these scenarios into four main scenarios in our research question, with which we want to present different points for the Chamber in a phased choice. That is precisely what we hope to see in real terms the entire scope of the Committee of Inquiry. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked if we could take regional public transport with us. We are indeed taking regional rail transport with us, but we are not taking regional public transport by bus and tram, because that is really a different market. This would also create an enormous complexity for the overall research. However, I say to Members that I will see what it can mean for the door-to-door journey. That is an important element and let us therefore ensure that we take it with us. I also agree with Members that the ACM, like all other parties, will be involved from its role as a supervisory body in the field of competition. That's what we're gonna do. A lot of questions have been asked about ProRail and I can imagine that. The cabinet does indeed want to transform ProRail into a public-law organisation. Following the report of the Committee of Inquiry, the cabinet looked at the organisation of the whole track. We also looked at ProRail separately. I shall come back to that in a moment, but I have done so because almost all Members have urged me to do so in various ways and in different words in one of the first debates we had on this subject in December. ProRail is a public organisation, because the tasks it performs are 100% public. There are also a lot of public funds being spent. For this reason, I believe that ProRail should be a public organisation, not a supervisory board, for example. ProRail can, of course, set its own course as a company, but I believe that the direction should take place from the public interest. I do not want to say that this would not be the case at the moment; I think that is important. The debates that Members have had with me and with my predecessor show that Members often directly ask the executive for some kind of responsibility with regard to ProRail. But I didn't formally see that responsibility. It was just referred to the time when Mrs Huizinga-Heringa was still at this post and she also indicated at the time that she was not going over it. There are a lot of important things about management and maintenance and about everything that has to do with the contract. I don't think I have a good story if I have to tell the members that I'm not about that. To be honest, Members would not accept this at all. Not even at all, because they think that's what I'm about. As far as I'm concerned, if I'm going over anything, I'm really going over it. This means, for example, that I should not want to have discussions with the Supervisory Board about the application of the WNT, because if Members have asked for it and I think it is a good idea, then we are just going to do it and then it should be possible to settle it. This also means that there should be no discussion as to which reports should or should not be sent and whether the reports that follow should be sent. If Members ask me for certain things or if I think certain things would be sensible, I must also be able to ensure that they happen. I do not want to have to debate all the time through a sort of U-turn or a muddy layer. I am very pleased that there is so much support for the development that ProRail is going through. That's great! Let's please hold on to that for another year, because that's kind of nice. Much has been done to improve the management structure, and that was also necessary. Much more financial expertise has been brought into the house and people are busy getting a better grip on the matter, and that was also necessary. We also need to improve the steering relationship between the department and ProRail, and that doesn't just mean that something has to change at ProRail. That also means something to us, to me and to my people. We absolutely need to do better. However, I will separate this from all the scenarios that Members have in mind, because the debates of recent years have shown that this is really a no-regret step. Mr Van Helvert suggested that at least one scenario could not be implemented if ProRail became public, but I do not see what scenario this is about. Even if the Chamber decided in the long term to make everything public and to place it in one holding company, it will, for example, have to become public in the first place. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. If, on the other hand, we decided to liberalise the whole of the railways in the Netherlands completely from 2025, it would be all the more important that the capacity distributor on that track has a public-law function and is independent, not a company. In each of the scenarios this step is no regret. This supports all the improvements that have already been made, which I support and welcome. I also think that there should be peace around ProRail. This is not about the people who work in the organisation. This is purely about the steering relationship between me as responsible Secretary of State, who is accountable in this Chamber, and the top of the company. It's about the business I handle with the top of the company. I would like to do so directly, without the intervention of a supervisory board. I take the liberty of establishing that a lot of Members of Parliament urged me to do so less than six months ago. I am therefore counting a little on the consistency of the Chamber in this matter. She asked me to do this. Now I deliver, but several Members say that perhaps we should have postponed it for a while. I do not think that is necessary, because in all cases the scenarios require free consideration. In my view, this step should not have any consequences for a lot of people in the organisation either. We have to keep an eye on that, because for those people I also want to rest. Before we make an ultimate decision on the form, I am, of course, going to put all this in the Chamber. So I would simply ask her to leave this proposal here at the end of the year. Again, I would like to ask: what could be against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u358	Well, nothing!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u359	I think that is a very strong text, Mr Smaling!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u360	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u361	I'm looking at that differently. I'm just looking for logic. We are talking about the Fyra survey, we have just talked about the Dutch Railways and we are talking about ProRail. Minister Dijsselbloem just told us to take it easy on the NS. We have to give them time. But at ProRail we have to hurry; they have to be in the ministry this year. At the NS you can't stop a concession in between, has just been said, but at ProRail you can. If you make it a ZBO, that also means the end of the concession. To the NS we say "three strikes and you're out," but to ProRail we say: zero strikes and you're equal civil servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u362	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u363	The NS does not involve privatisation and ProRail does. At the NS the Secretary of State is also addressed on Wi-Fi, toilets and travel planners, but yet she does not turn the NS into a Zbo. At ProRail she is also addressed on matters; she suddenly turns that into a Zbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u364	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u365	Why doesn't the Secretary of State address our criticism of the direction? This criticism mainly concerned the Ministry itself. Not the driver, but the driver was the problem. We have constantly asked why the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs was indeed another Secretary of State, where this Secretary of State was right to send so badly to the Ministry, why she did not attend a shareholders' meeting and why there was so much absenteeism and such lack of knowledge in the Ministry. That was our criticism!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u366	I have just indicated that my department can do better at this point, and we are working hard on that. I think that the summary of the debate that Mr Van Helvert has given in recent years is at least quite one-sided. When I bring in the texts of the Chamber, I get a different impression. You have systematically asked for the Supervisory Board to be sent home, you have said that the organisation should come under the Ministry as a kind of Rijkswaterstaat. Some have said that we should all change that yesterday. It is possible that Mr Van Helvert may have escaped a little bit, but I have not missed it. I also listened to it and I began to acknowledge my contribution to it. The step I want to prepare is a step that will support the improvements that are now being made in the organisation. If I compare NS and ProRail, there is a crucial difference: NS is a nv and ProRail is an e.g. For an organisation performing 100% public tasks, the form of an e.g. is not appropriate. That is also a view I have heard from many in the debate. Let us come to you at the end of the year with a proposal, so that you can assess whether that is a sensible step. Then let's consider which form is most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u367	The Secretary of State said she heard people in the Chamber say something; that's possible. A lot is said in the Chamber. I didn't mention any of those things the Secretary of State mentioned himself. I have criticized the Supervisory Board, but that is something other than asking to hang it under the Ministry as an agency. The director of ProRail shows good grades, he creates confidence and brings innovations. I wonder why the Secretary of State believes that this director, who has been beaten with a lot of bullshit, is going to perform better as a civil servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u368	Again, two things. Firstly, I have indicated that several Members of Parliament have called for this. I did not address you personally, but you are not the only one who had an opinion on this. Many of you have asked for this direct direction, even in debates with myself. Of course, I have listened to that, because that is the way it is in a debate and in a democracy. Secondly, I am not concerned that the director of ProRail is going to perform better. That is not at all at the heart of my problem. In fact, I agree with you that it is working very well, great, very well. At the moment when there is the question of responsibility which you now put to me at many moments, I should not be able to say that I am not going over it. It's as simple as that. We can change that together. It does not have to be the case if Mr Van Helvert proposes that people should all become officials immediately. Again, there are possible variants where an organisation is governed by public law, but with a minimal change in the system. My personal view, in anticipation of the troops, is that this is perhaps the most sensible change. But that's for you to decide at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u369	The Secretary of State is actually asking us for a mandate and I think it is a good idea to come back to that. I believe that part of the confusion arises because this is a proposal that is made to the Chamber in the context of a response to the Fyra report, while there is no direct relationship with the Fyra debacle. I can understand the inconvenience. I also understand that the Secretary of State says that she is very often asked by the Chamber to intervene directly; the Chamber does so again on the basis of many signals from the field. In its present form, this means a lot of intermediate layers, a lot of alignment circuits, and that may be more efficient. The Secretary of State will come up with a proposal at the end of the year and we will have the discussion on the order shortly afterwards. Mr Madlener has been promised that the scenario of one holding company of NS and ProRail will also be examined. My concern is that this means that we have a discussion twice in a row that can lead to a change in the position of ProRail. I can imagine that this would lead to unrest among the staff. How does the Secretary of State view this time lag? I think it's only a few months in the end. Is that worth it? Will it come to the Chamber with one proposal, or will it come to the Chamber with a hint of different scenarios and a scenario of preference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u370	The latter, because that seems to me to be the most right thing to do to what the Chamber is trying to do and has always asked for. If I thought it could wait a while, I wouldn't have made this proposal. I really think that, in my words, this is a "no regret" step. I've experienced it the same way in the past few months. It doesn't mean you're gonna let an organization undergo any new changes on a permanent basis. In a holding situation, an organisation will always have to be public, but not necessarily one large organisation. No one in the Chamber says that either. By the way, I do not see this step as a step towards a holding company. I'm not here right now to give all kinds of preferred scenarios in those other scenarios, but I didn't. We have seen in traffic between the Chamber and me how the debates in recent years have been dominated by the question of responsibility. I just need to be able to live up to it and not just in a new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u371	Perhaps the timing is also a time when the Chamber can be properly judged when we can see the different scenarios, in which the Secretary of State already has a little more insight. Then we can also assess whether there is a double step, but we will discuss it in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u372	Let's make sure we keep the people who work at ProRail whole. That's what we're all about. I think that signal is right, and I stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u373	I fully agree with the Secretary of State on this point. We ask her about ProRail, which was also true for her predecessors. I'm incredibly happy about this. My group has been in favour of a holding company for some time now, so as far as we are concerned, it might be a step in that direction, but I think this step is very good. Speaking of ProRail, I have a specific question. The Secretary of State might say she's not about it. Much more work takes place during the day. It's cheaper. It saves money. We have just talked about the Fyra and transport in the Randstad and towards Brussels. If there is more daytime work, this will lead to more delays for the traveller rather than less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u374	Yeah, you can. I sent an extensive letter to the Chamber about the future of management and maintenance. There are scenarios in this too. I think it is a very good idea to discuss this extensively with the Chamber. When I wrote the letter, I had the passenger's interest in mind. I do think that this debate should be held at a different time and much longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u375	That letter is for next Wednesday's procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u376	Does the Secretary of State know whether this choice of maintenance work also affects transport on the various documents of the high-speed line or the Amsterdam-Schiphol-Den Haag-Breda transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u377	That's not cut with nail scissors right now. You can't say right now: this is the consequence for that line right now. It is much more about the general idea that we now have more than 100 million each year that we cannot spend on management and maintenance. That has nothing to do with money at all, as the reasoning is. It is precisely because it is a thorn in my eye that we cannot spend that money now. I would very much like to talk to the Chamber about this for a longer time, but at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u378	I think you're going to the last block now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u379	There are still one or two questions left out of this block. I'm gonna have to answer that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u380	Yeah, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u381	We've been asked if we can't integrate Infraspeed. No. The short answer is that that is not possible. There's a 25-year contract. I can't cancel that unless I pay it off in full. I wouldn't ask the Chamber to do that, because then we'll really get on the ship. Mr Houwers has asked whether the problem, I think, has been well said. It is not just a question of structure but also of culture. It is, isn't it? He's right about that. It's also about the way in which your hands-on brings about the change of mind in organizations, which makes us much more precise in what problems we solve, whether that's our problems or we shuffle them off. That actually applies to all parties, including the department, in the railroad. I think that is well described by the Committee of Inquiry. You can be very rolling and say that you're not talking about it or that it's another's problem, but that doesn't solve it. This cultural change will therefore have to be achieved everywhere, including in our department. I think that's very important. We're really working on that, too. Then I'll get to the last block. There's hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u382	Mr Madlener, do you have a question on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u383	Yeah, about Infraspeed. That's the manager of the hsl. Now we have just heard that some of the problems of this hsl are not so much due to the NS, but also to the administrator. I read that the administrator receives around EUR 105 million a year from the government. Does Infraspeed meet the requirements? To what extent is Infraspeed responsible for the problems on that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u384	Infraspeed, as far as I know, just meets the requirements. It is necessary for the improvement plan, because it requires all parties to work together to really solve the problem. We therefore also need the contribution of Infraspeed. However, it has not been said that Infraspeed does not now meet the performance we demand from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u385	If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State has looked at this and concluded that Infraspeed fully complies with all the contractual obligations relating to the maintenance of that line and should in no way be sanctioned or sanctioned on that EUR 105 million grant per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u386	Yeah, as far as I know, it is. However, Infraspeed has also been called upon to contribute to the improvements that are needed. He can't look away. Let me put it this sharply. Then I come, last but not least, to the surveillance. Part of the Chamber has talked about this, and it is right. The report strongly criticises the functioning of the organisation of the ILT. I think it is a good thing to note that we should really take up this criticism. The ILT, where a new inspector is present, acknowledges that this criticism should lead to a change of course. That's inevitable. I think it would have been better, let me just admit that if we had paid particular attention to this in the multiannual programme. That would have been more convincing. It is a pity that it is not written down, but that it is. I'd just like to say something about that. Improvements have been started for the whole organization. This means, among other things, that the public interest in the exercise of tasks must be kept more closely in mind. For example, if signals are to be sent, we need to be more alert. The substantive involvement of management is increased in complex and long-term routes, for example the authorisation of a new type of train. The ILT is based on the principle of trust unless, but there is a need to constantly check whether that trust is justified. There will therefore be a renewed vision of the inspection in this respect. There is more intensive cooperation with foreign inspections, e.g. in the authorisation of the Eurostar and in physical inspections of the train or the manufacturer. For example, if you order new sprinters somewhere, you also go there. However, Mr Houwer's report and a reorientation of the organisation and working methods require a journey that takes time. You just didn't take care of that with a fingernip. The ILT will report in the annual report on the content and progress of the process that is now under way, and I will also inform the Chamber about this in the intervening period, in response to Mr Van Helvert. I've been talking a lot to the inspection lately, including about this. I have also gained some experience with transition routes during inspections and I have the impression that this is being taken very seriously. Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked what is being done to improve supervision of the inspection bodies. Since 2013, all inspection bodies have been audited annually, looking at part of the quality system. In addition, a sector-wide audit of the functioning of the certification system is now being carried out this autumn. So we are no longer just going to look at individual audits, but we are also going to look at the system as such. We also specifically consider whether the inspection body is able to make an independent assessment of the manufacturer's work. That was one of the issues which the Committee of Inquiry rightly called for attention to be given to. The results of these audits will be used to further strengthen the whole system of certification. We will inform the Chamber of its proposals and results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u387	The Secretary of State is finishing the supervisory block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u388	Mr Van Helvert asked whether I believe that safety is not adequately guaranteed by the current system of certification and authorisation. No, it is a process laid down in European legislation, but it is a question of how it is handled. That is at the heart of the matter, and the Committee of Inquiry has made recommendations on it, which are now being followed up by the ILT. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked me how I assess the recommendation regarding the strict enforcement of the safety management system. Compliance is very important, it is a responsibility of the railway undertaking and the ILT maintains it strictly. By the way, this does not always mean a 100% control, but rather a very risk-oriented control. Where most of the problems are expected, one also gets the most supervision. Then Mr Hoogland and Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the double hats of advisor on the one hand and certifier on the other. There can be no doubt that I would have liked to have said this here too about the independence of the judgement of inspection bodies. The Fourth Railway Package also further strengthens the requirements for that independence. Part of that legislation will come into force soon. We need to implement it and then we are going to choose how to further ensure it. However, in anticipation, the ILT has already strengthened its review framework. An inspection body must have two different organisational components, namely certification and advice, and these must also be independently controlled. No information is exchanged between the employees of different departments, and the employees of the inspection body can only be deployed in one role during the duration of a project. So you go either in the certification, or in the advice, but not in both. Why is the choice of an approval authority left to the manufacturer? It is a free choice of the manufacturer or his customer under EU legislation, but it can only be chosen for approved inspection bodies. The ILT does that recognition. I have two final questions and then I'm through. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked: can you still respond to the recommendation to issue a certificate after a successful pilot company? From now on, the pilot company will always be run by NS. That pilot company is about more than the equipment. This is also about the interplay of staff, infrastructure and procedures. That is exactly what Mrs Van Veldhoven suggested. The ILT shall issue a permit for the placing in service of the equipment. Only then can the pilot plant be carried out. The test on the safe operation of the test plant is done by the ILT. The test on reliability lies with the carrier in conjunction with the infrastructure manager. We see the results at the front. We also look afterwards at the performance delivered. By the way, we will evaluate this method again in the midterm review and ask the question: is this the ultimate model? Can the consultation on full security be brought forward? NS will complete the safety case hsl this summer, including the approval by an independent security authority. After the summer, the results will be discussed in the security consultation. They go to the Chamber in the autumn in the progress report HSL-Zuid. End of block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u389	The Secretary of State said that the ILT is now also going to do more physical inspections. I'm very happy about that. Was there a need for a change in the legal basis or could the ILT have always done so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u390	As far as I know, no change was necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u391	So the fact that it was only checked if it had the right certificates was a choice of its own for the ILT's own way of working?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u392	That's what I'm guessing, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u393	Can the Secretary of State at any time further corroborate that suspicion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u394	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u395	This also applies to a lot of other areas where the ILT often claims to check only that the certificates are true on paper, while GroenLinks regularly advocates a physical inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u396	Yes, but in general it may be good to say that the change in culture does not only reflect what needs to be changed in the rail sector. I will give an even more precise answer to that in the second term, but the improvements made by the Inspector-General are about supervision as a whole. It also learns from the way in which work is done in other sectors. There's not some kind of shot in there. Then perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren's concern would be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u397	Mrs Van Veldhoven, has there been a question left? That is the case, but there is also a second deadline. I would ask everyone to put them there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u398	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u399	I think that's very good. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her answer to the first-term questions put by the Chamber. We are now going to the second term. I'll wait until Mrs. Van Veldhoven has everything. I call Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u400	Mr President, we now usually have a third of the first-term speaking time. I won't be needing it entirely, but at least two minutes I'm not going to make it. Mr. Chairman. First of all, many thanks to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to questions about this important report and about the improvements that we can make for the traveller. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for a number of commitments, in particular for her commitment to consider whether we can allow the Benelux train or Intercity to continue directly, so that passengers, in addition to the connection we have in Brussels with the Thalys, can still return to the Netherlands a little longer rather than the timetable for those two trains actually stop at the same time. I would also like to thank her for her commitment to market exploration. The Secretary of State states that she intends to explore with Belgium how further time savings can be made for travellers from The Hague on their trip to Belgium. Of course, it cannot unilaterally determine this for Belgium; it must always do so in consultation. I would like to make it clear that we are really doing our best to improve travel time also for the bulk of travellers from The Hague, those hardworking Dutch people who like to travel by direct train from The Hague to Brussels. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a proper connection with Brussels is important for The Hague as an international city of peace, security and justice;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Belgian Government, to seek to improve travel time with the IC directly, including for trains travelling directly from The Hague to Brussels, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u401	The market exploration remains a special figure. We didn't actually see them on the trail this way before. Here's what I was wondering. The Secretary of State asked at some point: why shouldn't the information be known to me? I also wonder if she hasn't spoken directly to those interested parties of FMN. If so, what has come out of it? And what else does she expect to come out of that market exploration? I would also like to ask why it is actually taking the intermediate step to first grant the NS implementation when a better offer is made, and only then to go to that sub-contractorship. Why is that intermediate step needed? The Secretary of State said that the ACM is involved in the scenarios. I would like to clarify that I would like an opinion from the ACM on the scenarios. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Committee of Inquiry recommends that an explicit choice be made for the degree of market forces and that different scenarios be developed for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt this recommendation and to ask the ACM, rail management, to provide advice on the various scenarios,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u402	There were a lot of fairly detailed recommendations on the ILT. In this debate, which has been going on for quite a long time, it has gone a little too far for me to discuss all these detailed recommendations one by one. I do not think that is necessarily necessary, but I think it is important that we get a systematic overview. The Secretary of State already gave some handles for that. She's already made a deal. So perhaps I could withdraw the motion, if she can still undertake to systematically report on all those recommendations. It can then see for itself what it can best involve, but perhaps the additional letter on the ILT's multiannual programme would be an option. It can then, in a kind of addendum, indicate how it intends to deal with these recommendations in the Fyra report on a multiannual basis. I'll leave it to the Secretary of State to consider how best to do it. We've had a lot of exchanges about the public procurement. The question is whether it is desirable and feasible to do so during this concession period. I think the Secretary of State is right to say that there is no majority in favour of this. However, I would be very pleased if we could take the decision of principle that we will do so after the end of the concession period. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the parliamentary committee of inquiry recommends that more be taken out of the hsl for the traveller;]] [[Whereas a public invitation to tender of the hsl, bearing in mind the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, encourages transporters to offer the best offer for the traveller;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare for public procurement of the concession for the hsl from 2025, or as far as possible, to set up a timetable for this purpose and to inform the Chamber before the end of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u403	Does Mrs Van Veldhoven really think that this, which is a very specific tender path, is the result of a recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u404	No, I'm not. The committee does recommend that we consider whether there is more to be gained. The Secretary of State has put forward the proposal of the market exploration for this purpose. This is not a one-on-one result of the conclusions, but it is a follow-up to that important conclusion. What I have indicated is an interpretation that seems to my group to be a salutary path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u405	"Remove more" is therefore synonymous with "public procurement" for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u406	"Get More Out" means you're looking at all the options. That is why there is also the Secretary of State's proposal. I have made some critical comments. However, I believe that we should try everything and not rule out anything in advance. I therefore also believe that we should not rule this out in advance. I hope that Mr Smaling, if he too really puts the traveller on the same page, will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u407	He shakes no, so I say before the Acts. Thank you. Let me now give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u408	I have one final comment to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u409	You have really used up more than your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u410	Yeah, but still a lot less than a third of my first input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u411	No, it's more than a third. Anyway, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u412	It concerns that last question that I had no longer asked in the event of interruption, about the inspection body. There remains a strange incentive when a manufacturer chooses the inspection body for his own product. That approval authority shall then have an interest in remaining in a good state of affairs with the manufacturer who has his product approved. That's what we see in the shuffle diesels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u413	You have to finish, Mrs. Van Veldhoven. I'm sorry. You have no more rights than the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u414	The question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she has confidence in this case or whether we do not have that in the case of the NS in those "Chinese walls'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u416	Would it not be better to ensure that it is always the customer who chooses the inspection body?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u417	Mr. Chairman. This is an important debate, because it will become part of parliamentary history. Thanks to the Fyra report, thanks to parliamentary investigations in both Chambers, but also thanks to a book like De derailement, van Silfhout and Van den Berg, we have written a lot of information, often in a narrative way, about how we have dealt with this file for 25 years and with the rail file in a broader sense. I think that is extremely valuable. I therefore hope that this debate will not be just another note in the story, after which we will come to the conclusion in five or ten years' time that we have not yet taken the decisions that are best for the Netherlands. Anyway, we'll see about that. In any case, I welcome the way in which the Secretary of State has given answers here. My group hopes that NS and ProRail will be able to enter a holding company. It is our hope that the steps now being taken by the Secretary of State will ultimately lead to this, preferably with as little resurrection as possible for the staff of ProRail. I understand that these people are going to be a bit insane from one change to the next. So I prefer the setting with the least hassle for the people there. For my group, a market survey would not have had to be done in the way it is now set up, because everything is now open and it is very difficult to say where we will end up in the end. We are, however, extremely opposed to the public procurement of HSL-South. We are extremely opposed to taking the HSL-South out of the main rail network. We must not forget that we are talking about an international line, but that a very large proportion of passengers will simply trace within the Netherlands. If we get from Breda to Eindhoven, the percentage actually only gets bigger. To sum up, it's a good survey report, but it leaves out a little bit. It's like watching a soccer game when it's already 3-0 and all you're going through is 4-0. Hence the only motion I would like to make. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Fyra survey only describes the second half of a bad football match;]] [[calls on the government to consider the first half of the follow-up actions resulting from the report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u418	Mr. Chairman. I'm starting my second term where I just wanted to end. I would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry very much for the good work it has done and for which we have had a good debate. This provides a good basis for how we will deal with the recommendations in the coming period and can improve the structure on the track. I think that's a big profit. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry advises Fyra to develop scenarios for longer-term rail planning (after 2024);]] [[Whereas, partly because of the conflicting interests of the State, the traveller concerning the Fyra-debacle has remained in the cold;]] [[calls on the Government to have the study of the scenarios carried out by an independent research office and to share the mandate formulation with the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a market survey will be carried out to see whether better performance is possible than that of the NS on HSL-South;]] [[Whereas NS as a concessionaire for domestic transport across HSL-South is not an independent party to assess the results of that market exploration for feasibility;]] [[Calls on the Government to set up market exploration in such a way that an independent test by a third party is carried out on the feasibility of the results of the same market exploration;]] [[Furthermore, if it shows that a better offer is possible, the Government invites this to be the basis for the offer on the HSL-South and the NS to implement it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Boer and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-22]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u419	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the comprehensive answers. I am pleased to hear that the ILT has decided to carry out paper inspections on the whole area solely out of its own remit, so that we can contact it elsewhere. I am also in favour of bringing ProRail directly under the leadership. Some members of this Chamber feel that if market forces fail, the conclusion is that you need to apply more market forces. My group is not convinced of that. It is nice to hear that the recommendations of the investigation of the First Chamber, derailed, are taken over by the directors. One of the reasons why my group is so enthusiastic about high-speed rail transport is the environmental aspect. That is why we also insist on where it can be replaced and where it can be more attractive to join. I tabled a motion on this in March 2013, which was adopted. Among other things, it was about the ticketing system. I imagine that the Secretary of State cannot come back to this, but she may be able to do so at a later date. I have found that motion by now, but I also have a motion on it tonight. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas international train connections can compete with short flights in terms of speed, but the price and service levels are lagging behind, often giving passengers preference to the aircraft;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to improve the price and service level of international train connections compared to short flights and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u420	That motion is about the same point, which is why we wanted this Fyra so badly. We also found it very important that at the Fyra it was promised that something would come that would be much faster than the Benelux train. But as has been noted in scents and colours, we now have something that is slower than the Benelux train. We have also noted that there may be more delays due to the way in which ProRail will carry out its work. I have a motion on that too. If the Secretary of State finds it premature, I'm quite prepared to hold it for a while. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rail operations will take place more frequently during the day and during the week, resulting in more frequent disruption of the timetable, with all the consequences for the passenger;]] [[calls on the Government to identify how to minimise to an absolute minimum train congestion during the day and during the week on the old "Fyra" route,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u421	The underlying idea is that people have long been counting on faster transport there, but it is now slower. If you can limit the work during the day and during the week, we would like it there. I think I've already made my comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u422	Mr. Chairman. I will be brief, because on a number of points we have received commitments that we are satisfied with. I shall begin with the conclusion of this debate. That is that future transport on the hsl is not what it should be, but that it cannot be made in this debate either. We have to do it now with what's on paper and what the NS says she's going to do in 2018. That is what we or our successors will test against the reality of that moment. It is a good thing that scenarios are being drawn up for the organisation of the rail sector and that they will be sent to the Chamber before the end of the year. I want to say a little more about ProRail's position, but I'll keep it until the end. I welcome the Minister of Finance's commitment to the NS strategy. He will send us a letter in which he will at least explain the numbers. He will also identify the risks of developing activities abroad for us. I was most surprised by the answer given by the Secretary of State on the inspections of trains and the role of inspection. I thought the answer was rather disarmingly fair. The Secretary of State said that attention should have been paid to something that has not been addressed. Then the cold is even out of the sky and we can do business quickly. It's good that this is happening now. A small question is how is it possible that it wasn't there after all. That's more "nice to know" than "need to know." Now I'm going into ProRail's position. I myself had doubts about this point; the Secretary of State should know that. I wondered if it would be good to take this step, because our final picture is that some members of the Chamber share that still to let the NS and ProRail go together. In the end, it is a public task for a public organisation. The fact that the steering is done by the public sounds simple, but in the end it has drawn us over the line in the sense that we need to take this step now. I can only conclude that, now that we have perhaps not formally but informally given a go, we are looking forward to the first steps to achieve this. I think it's good for peace on the track that we're giving the Secretary of State the room to do this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u423	Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of talk and we can still catch the bus to Brussels faster and cheaper than by train. In two hours and 45 minutes, Flixbus will take you from Amsterdam to Brussels for €9. So the traveller is still in the cold in that sense. I'd like to talk about the market exploration. There's a market exploration the NS can look at and then there's a proposal from a third party. The NS can see if they can do that. If this is not possible, the third party may sub-contract it. Why doesn't the Secretary of State just take step two out? Then there's a market view for that market player. We then discussed the discussion with another party in the context of the market consultation. Last Monday, the Secretary of State sent a letter to the FMN inviting him to talk about the future. I understood well that the Secretary of State was unable to look specifically at a proposal in previous talks with the parties, because I had understood that from the round table. I thought it had been mentioned for more than a while. What's the deal with that, exactly? Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State has not yet seen this and has not yet been able to judge it? Around the Fyra survey, no one ever criticized ProRail. That's what I want to say. In fact, the survey even says a few times: only ProRail has once again raised the finger of "boys this is not going well." And yet the Secretary of State uses this to take ProRail and give the Dutch Railways the 365th chance on the HSL. We find that strange, and we continue to find that strange, especially because the whole market in the round table ProRail, NS, Arriva, Veolia, Syntus, Connexxion, Rover, De Maatschappij For Better OV, the trade unions, the port companies and the freight transport service does not think it is a good idea. I wonder what the Secretary of State is doing with this signal. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transport of the HSL-South provided for in the key planning decision of HSL-South in 1996 was not carried out;]] [[Considering that the cabinet intends to realise a transport offer that is still not what was planned and contracted in 2001 only in the timetable 2018;]] [[calls on the government to stick to its original ambitions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[heard the railway sector rejecting the plan to position ProRail as an agency at the Ministry of l and M;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to examine four scenarios for the future of the rail sector and that there is no need to anticipate them;]] [[noting that the government has sufficient instruments to direct ProRail;]] [[calls on the government to make proposals on the position of ProRail only after the scenario investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT) plays a crucial role in terms of rail safety, but the ILT multiannual programme 2016-2020 does not yet incorporate the survey recommendations;]] [[Calls on the Government to invite the ILT to complement the 2016-2020 multiannual plan with the implementation of the organisation-wide changes and the change of course recommended by the Fyra Committee of Inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-26]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u424	I hope that the decision on ProRail will be delayed, but if there is an investigation, I would like to urge the Secretary of State to do so together with the rail sector. I would much rather see, as I say in the motion, that the Secretary of State is waiting for her scenario investigation to be ready to come up with a proposal afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u425	I shall now give the floor to Mr Madlener. Oh, no, I'm following the old order. I give the floor to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u426	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the as always clear answer. I would also like to thank the men and women of the NS and ProRail, who will be standing next to their beds early in the morning to transport us. After such a debate, it is always a job to take up your job with good courage. So a lot of compliments for those men and women. The Christian Union remains sceptical about the proposal for market forces, as it asks other carriers to share their competition strategy without any chance of acquiring a contract. Mr Van Helvert already talked about it: at the NS we have to be patient, at ProRail hurry, at the NS you can't stop the concession, at ProRail you can, at the NS it's "three strikes out," at ProRail "zero strikes out" and you become a civil servant. I call for peace at the NS and ProRail, as well as for a thorough discussion on the overall vision and on the system as a whole, for no hasty decisions, but a good vision for the future and for no irreversible steps. I have only prepared two motions, because I think it can be a little better and smarter than in the plan that is now in place. In the first motion, I have put together all the arguments for why a HSL bonus is a bad idea. I don't have to look at it temptingly this time, because these are really all the arguments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the time savings of the HSL-South are largely achieved by the shorter route and to a much lesser extent by the speed of the equipment;]] [[noting that the HSL trains to the north of Rotterdam run as fast as south of Rotterdam and that there is only a surcharge to the north of Rotterdam;]] [[noting that there are many free intercity routes elsewhere in the Netherlands with a higher average speed than the section Amsterdam-Rotterdam on the hsl;]] [[noting that the HSL services are integrated with the main rail network and that the rates of intercity and sprinters of the main rail network are not based on speed but only on distance;]] [[Whereas the expiry of the HSL payment will result in a better use of the HSL through passenger growth;]] [[calls on the Government to identify with the NS the conditions under which the HSL payment may lapse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u427	I have a question about this sympathetic motion. Cheaper train tickets of course everyone wants, but now this train transport is not profitable. It is maintained with subsidies. If Mr Bruins is to drop that surcharge, there must therefore be more money. I didn't hear any cover in the motion. Can he indicate how he's gonna cover this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u428	I deliberately expressed the motion in a mild way. I ask the Secretary of State to examine the condition under which the supplement may lapse. I myself think it could lead to an increase in the number of travellers and that, if you examine it carefully, this motion will not cost money. I would very much like to see an investigation for that. So I think it's a motion at no cost. Then the second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are fewer trains between the Netherlands and Belgium in the 2018 train offer compared to the planned offer in 2001, with a longer journey time due to the additional stops in Breda, Noorderkempen and Zaventem;]] [[noting that the train offer for 2018 NS is cheaper due to the decline of the detour via The Hague;]] [[whereas Breda and Noorderkempen were opened up in the planned offer in 2001 with a separate connection with Antwerp;]] [[calls on the Government, with NS and SNCB, to agree a better offer for cross-border connections with higher frequencies and shorter travel times, with reservations free of charge twice an hour Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Brussels via the shortest route and once an hour via Breda-Noorderkempen-Antwerp,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u429	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks has just introduced that parties here claim that if market forces fail, you need to have more market forces. That reminds me very much of Europe. If Europe does not succeed, there are also parties who say: then you must have more Europe. Indeed, GroenLinks is the party that often claims that. Have we learned lessons about what went wrong in this file? Yeah, I don't think there's gonna be a second Fyra soon, because that lesson must have taught this Secretary of State. But has the government learned not to do megalomaniac planning, whereby all losses are passed on to taxpayers by means of taxation and where costs are out of control? I'm afraid that lesson is far from being learned. Then I would like to refer to the current sustainability of our economy, where thousands of small businesses are being demolished that cannot survive without subsidies. All this is financed by taxation. I hold my heart for the long-term consequences for our economy. That is a comparison that may not belong in this debate, but in the General Reviews. The PVV really wants to reverse that split between NS and ProRail. You can do that through a holding company. Maybe there's another way to do it. That is not the step the government is taking now. The Secretary of State has said she's going to take ProRail a step closer. I honestly doubt that my group will support that, because it is as if you say: I want to buy a pair of shoes and I will take one home with me. Then you can say you already have one, but that's not what you want. We are now going to investigate the entire market organization. We welcome that research. Shouldn't you just wait and see what comes out of that and decide at once on the change that we do want? I have asked that this market organization study should include specific reference to other countries. The UK is, of course, an example of a country that has gone to market forces. There are countries that are a little in between and there are countries that do not do that at all. It is important that we look at the experiences in all those countries. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to carry out this study with examples from other countries in the world. Then we'll decide on that at the end of the year, I understand. I have no further motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u430	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u431	Mr. Chairman. I will first give an opinion on the thirteen motions and then I have a set of questions to answer. First of all, Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion on item No. 18, in which I am asked to consult with the Belgian Government to improve travel time with IC directly also for trains travelling from The Hague to Brussels. As I said, I am looking together with the Belgians for improvements. The trains to and from The Hague also benefit from this. In that sense, the motion supports policy. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I come to Mrs van Veldhoven's motion on item No. 19. In doing so, she asks me to take up the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry to make an explicit choice, and to ask the ACM to give its opinion on the various scenarios. Perhaps I could ask Mrs Van Veldhoven to hold this motion until I have made a proposal to the Chamber. Yes, we're going to ask the ACM, of course, on the basis of its competition responsibility, to be involved in the assignment. After that, we must make a political assessment. Not everything that emerges in the scenarios is something the ACM can say something about from its position. If I may formulate something like this, Mrs van Veldhoven can see whether she still thinks it is not getting enough room. In that case, it may still put the motion to the vote. I would therefore ask Mrs Van Veldhoven to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u432	Maybe I can rephrase the motion, too. I can add the passage "where relevant." This also creates space, of course. There is no point in asking the ACM for advice where this is not relevant. What matters is that there is another party involved. I'm just gonna take a look at the wording. If necessary, I shall hold the motion; at least I shall consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u433	With such an addition, Mrs Van Veldhoven is already helping me a lot. I'm gonna do it anyway. Some things do not necessarily require motions, but that is ultimately up to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 20 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Van Helvert, I advise. As has been said, we are not going to re-contract in this concession period unless there is a failure: the three strikes. I do not intend to anticipate the results of what we are going to do next. If the Court takes the scenarios seriously, it can say what it wants on that basis at the earliest. Then maybe you can join the midterm review. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 21 by Mr Smaling. It calls for consideration to be given to the first half of a football match. I asked a couple of times today, "Who could be against that?" My answer to this question is: no one, nothing stands in the way of it. I consider the motion to support policy, with a smiley face, but I do not believe that it can be included in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u434	Everything is in the Acts, including this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u435	But I understand very well what Mr. Smaling is saying with a joke. He's right on balance, of course. You have to look at the whole story from the beginning to see where things went wrong. I very much agree with that. With the motion in part No. 22 Members De Boer and Hoogland ask me to have an independent research office investigate the various scenarios. It's a long story, but I can be brief about it: yes, that's what we're gonna do. I will be happy to ensure that this is done independently and that one scenario is not addressed. We use information from research offices. I think the motion could be policy support in that way. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u436	I explicitly asked whether that research agency is also explicitly looking at other countries to learn how they do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u437	That's what we're gonna do. Moreover, I believe that we will undoubtedly be informing the Chamber about this. This has already been requested by the Chamber. I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 23 by Mrs De Boer, which states: "If it shows that a better offer is possible to take this as the basis for the offer on the HSL-South." I consider this motion to support policy. Judgement room. The point at the request in the motion in part No. 24 by Mrs Van Tongeren is that the price and service level is a matter for the carriers. They need to make a good mix of price and service, taking into account as much as possible what their customers want. There's an open access. For example, we also get the Eurostar in 2017. Since it's really a matter for the carriers, I have to discourage the motion. We can't do that ourselves. I should like to ask Mrs van Tongeren for her motion on item No. Twenty-five. The letter is just in the Chamber and the Chamber still has to take it in procedure. However, what Mrs Van Tongeren is asking for is a wide-ranging debate. We are going to have that debate and I look forward to it. I do not think that we should impose a motion on that debate in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u438	As I said, I'm prepared to hold my second motion. On the first motion, I would like to go a little further with the Secretary of State, because how are we ever going to get a level playing field between train and aviation at shorter distances? I would also like to ask this in view of the other hat of the Secretary of State, climate. This is a very urgent matter. If it is not possible in this way, I would like to hear what is possible at another time. We don't solve it by leaving it to the market. So you can already see that all the night trains are going out and that there are many more very cheap short flights coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u439	Yesterday we had a very good international meeting on the train lines in Europe for passengers. We also discussed how to make it more attractive. This also has to do with sharing open data and making it easy to travel across the border, for example by doing something about the tickets. She has already discussed this with the government. We then looked very carefully at what steps we can take. Moreover, it will also have to come from some of the carriers, because we cannot, of course, come up with this offer ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u440	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (33678, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u441	In the motion in part No. 26 Mr Van Helvert says that we should go back to 2001. I have already indicated in the debate that the House has taken decisions on this matter in a majority at several times. I do not agree with him now, but I am sure that the CDA Group has once supported a proposal, if only because it was part of the government. Mr Van Helvert is going all the way back now, and that is impossible. I do not think it is entirely fair, given the concession that has just been agreed. That's why I have to discourage the motion. However, I will ensure that the offer will be optimised within the current possibilities. In the motion in part No. 27 by Mr Van Helvert, he asked the government to wait for proposals on the position of ProRail. I would like to make two comments. First of all, it's not like we're canceling the concession to ProRail. That has just been suggested, but that is not the case anyway. Secondly, it is not the case in advance that the employees become immediately officials if you make the organisation where they work public law. Maybe I took away both of these assumptions with this. I also note that I am taking the space to come up with proposals. I will leave it with the Chamber at the end of this year. The scenarios will be completed at the beginning of next year. Frankly, until then, I will, of course, take into account the interests of the people involved. Mr Van Helvert spoke to me there, and I think that is right. I will also consult with ProRail himself and others about a good way to submit the scenarios to the Chamber. Given the time, we do not need to repeat the whole debate; I do not intend to do so. I shall put those proposals to the Chamber. At that point, the Chamber will say what choice it is making, but I will make a proposal. That is why I would advise against this motion, because it makes this impossible for me to do so in a short space of time. Mr Van Helvert's motion on item No. 28 I consider to support my policy. I see that Mr Van Helvert is pleased to be surprised, but he just has a point. In response to questions from Mrs Van Veldhoven, I can say that I think it would be better if we were to complement that multi-annual plan. I think that is the most practical way to respond to the recommendations that are already being followed in the organisation. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. I come to the Bruins motion in part No. 29. In the debate with Mr Madlener, it was clear where the pain was. Mr Bruins says that it is an exploration, but he does have the aim of achieving something, and I simply do not have the money to do so. That's a choice, too, but I just need to be clear about that. I therefore advise against this motion, also because it will ultimately turn out to be an uncovered cheque. In his motion in part No. 30 Mr Bruins is actually starting to write in the timetable. In this respect, the successive spokesmen of the Christian Union are consistent, because I believe that Mr Bruins' predecessors have done so many times. Unfortunately, it is not a sensible proposal in this case. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I've also explained why it's not wise. If we were to skip Breda and Noorderkempen, we would simply miss too many travelers. All options are really being looked at. That is why I am able to answer Mr Bruins' question so well. If there's more to it, it'll come from the market exploration, I'd say. However, that goes in a different way than simply deleting stations in advance. Mr Van Helvert asked together with Mrs Van Veldhoven about the discussion with the FMN. How do we deal with the market exploration? Why don't I scrape the second step? That is what Mr Van Helvert asked, I say to Mrs Van Veldhoven, before she worries about it; it is her birthday, so we should not have that. I cannot delete that step because I cannot unilaterally cancel the concession in advance. If the step is skipped giving NS the opportunity to do better, you actually do. That's not my intention. The Benelux trains will no longer continue, I say to Mrs van Veldhoven to avoid misunderstandings. Until 2018, the IC Brussels runs over The Hague. Then we will serve The Hague four more times. Travellers can therefore change in Breda to be faster in Brussels. So it's a switch. It was further requested to systematically report on the change at ILT. As I said just now in response to the motion on part No. 28, by Mr Van Helvert, I think it is right that we should present a first test of this in a kind of addendum or supplementary letter to the multiannual programme. Mrs Van Veldhoven wanted to know whether it would not be better if the customer chose the inspection body instead of the manufacturer. Both are an option under European legislation. So this is just a matter of how the market works. Next, the quality of the inspection body is of course guaranteed to the public through recognition by the ILT. It shall monitor the functioning of the inspection body. So that option is in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u442	A brief question, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u443	Does the Secretary of State consider it desirable that if the customer is a Dutch party, for example the NS, that customer can always choose the inspection body itself instead of being chosen by the manufacturer? It is possible to do so in European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u444	In my view, the problem is that this choice is not laid down in European legislation. I can find all kinds of things, but that's the way the rules are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u445	Mrs Van Veldhoven has another final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u446	I wonder what the Secretary of State is about this choice, bearing in mind the lessons to be drawn from this whole survey. In fact, the report describes in detail that the manufacturer had selected the inspection body and what resulted from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u447	In the first period, I gave a comprehensive answer to the question of what could be improved with regard to the certification and supervision of the ILT. That's the line we're putting in now. In any case, we are going to send a letter in which we will go into the recommendations and I suggest that I go into them in more detail as to what is and what is not possible and why not. Mr Hoogland asked how it was possible that there was nothing about this in the multiannual programme. Let me just say here that this should have happened. It didn't happen, but we're gonna fix it. However, this does not mean that nothing will happen in the meantime. In the same letter, I will also refer to the broad scope of the task for all areas. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if the ILT would now lie under the train and if this could not be done sooner. That was possible earlier, but at the time there was a different view of the role than now. We have now opted for a more active role concept; that is the change I was talking about. This is also an effect of the survey. That brings me to the end of my second term. I would like to conclude by thanking the committee. Her work has had great significance, because let us be honest: the fact that I am here today has also been the direct result of the report presented by the committee to the Chamber. This file has a long history. The Court has rightly stated that we must do everything we can to avoid the mistakes that have been made over the years and that we must now look at a number of points. I'm sure that's what I'm going to do. I feel supported by a lot of things that several Members of Parliament have put forward. Let us at least return to the quietness of the debate. This is very important for all those who work daily on and around the track. They may be aware that there is incredibly much appreciation in this house and in the cabinet for all the work being done. I think it's important to remind you of that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u448	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u449	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament, the officials supporting the debate, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in a different way. I wish everyone a good night.
