ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	I see that Mr Graus has something to say first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. I believe that today, for the first time in my ten-year membership, I am going to make a point of order. I put this issue on the agenda in 2006. In 2010 I made sure it was in the coalition agreement. I then requested a debate on illegal puppy trade last year after my oral questions had been rejected. That request for a debate was supported by the Animal Party. I requested that debate in April 2015. So I've been waiting a year and eight months for that. I talked about it with Mrs Ouwehand two weeks ago. Last week, a motion from me against the illegal puppy trade was passed. I do not understand why my requests have not been accepted for a year and a half and that Mrs Ouwehand will then have the opportunity to put oral questions on them, when it has been my subject since 2006. I can't quite follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr Graus, you have made your point. I will certainly give you the considerations at another time. However, we are not going to have a debate on why one question is not being answered and the other one is not. But I'm sure I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you for that. It's just a bit of a weird thing. After all, a debate on this is planned on the basis of a request from me. It is then strange that these oral questions should be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	There are a lot of debates on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	But this debate is at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. Every week dozens of blinded vans pass through the Dutch border. They go to Limburg and Brabant and there the vans are unloaded. The content consists of crates full of illegally imported puppies from Eastern Europe. It's 1,000 a week and about 50,000 a year. They are transferred to other places in the Netherlands where shady traders sell them to unsuspecting buyers. Yesterday there was a report that one of those traders in Friesland was caught in the collar. That's beautiful, of course. We hope that there will be a justified punishment and we wonder if the Minister also thinks that a restraining order is appropriate. The question is: couldn't this have been prevented? Couldn't the cabinet have done more to prevent us from finding 23 dead puppies in this trader's freezer? And who knows how many other animals have died of parvo. The Netherlands has not done its homework. Why has the cabinet rejected proposals to abolish vaccination booklets, which are therefore fraudulent, and to make passports compulsory? Why does the Netherlands not yet have import restrictions against Hungary when Belgium can? And why does France have a compulsory registration that sellers also have to pass on to buyers, and doesn't the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Ouwehand is quite right to raise this matter. If you take responsibility for animals, you have to live up to that responsibility. It is clear that this is not the case here. It is also clear that action must be taken against this. Luckily, that's what's happening. This person has also performed earlier this year. In addition, this failure has been revealed by a re-check. This means that the system has produced this after all. Mrs Ouwehand says 50,000 illegal dogs enter the country every year. I can't take that figure like that. I think that there are some 150,000 puppies per year in the Netherlands. I don't think there's about 20,000 registered at the moment, not yet in the picture. That doesn't change the fact that it's still a lot of dogs. Of course, it's a very diffuse trade. There are individuals who have puppies and who sell these puppies. There are traders who sell about 20 puppies a year, but there are also traders who sell much more. You got people bringing stray dogs to the country. You've got people who have dogs coming from abroad on a commercial basis. It's a diffuse trade and it's not that easy to get it all under control. We're working hard on that. We've sent an evaluation to the chamber of what's being done. Then we are working to improve the I&R system, with which everything can be monitored. The Chamber has been promised that we will come with a letter at the beginning of next year, i.e. in January or February. In it we indicate how we think we can improve the system. On the basis of this system, better control is possible and a white list as used by Belgium can also be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	The cabinet is indeed working; we are not denying that either. However, I would like to draw your attention to history. In 2008, the Chamber said there should be a plan of action against the illegal puppy trade. That ended in 2014. The cabinet said to wait for the results. As is the case in the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet, the Chamber awaits the results. At that time, however, we had strong suspicions that the cabinet is doing too little. And what's pale? In 2015, Belgium managed to stop imports from Hungary, for example. In 2016 we are discussing this with the Secretary of State and he says: yes, but I have to make all kinds of preparations for that first, I cannot do that yet. The confidence in the momentum of the government's approach and the confidence that all the possibilities available to suppress this trade are being taken up has disappeared somewhat from the Animal Party. The question is why the cabinet does not also introduce such a white list to counter imports from Hungary, for example, just like Belgium did. Why does the cabinet not say that it is going to make the necessary preparations and that we are going to abandon the fraudulent vaccination booklets? In Friesland we have seen that people who bought a puppy received neatly filled vaccination booklets: the puppy was healthy. It got sick in two days and died of parvo. That's because you can easily cheat with the vaccination books. You can't do that with the passports. Why can it be arranged in France for a seller to register and pass the registration number on to the buyer, so that control is possible, and is the Netherlands behind in that respect? The Netherlands really hasn't done its homework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm gonna have to counter that, Mr. Chairman. In July of 2015 we made a new Decision keepers of animals. We have arranged that from December of 2014 dogs should not be allowed to come to the Netherlands until 15 weeks later. We have evaluated the measures taken and shared that evaluation with the Chamber. Then we're working on the I&R system. That is also absolutely necessary, because there are abuses that need to be addressed. If we have improved the I&R system, it is possible to have figures available to support the possibility of violating the freedom of movement that should be possible within the European Union. The Belgians have shown that. They've got their records in order. They have been given co-operation to make the same demands to traders in Hungary, Poland and other countries as to traders in Belgium. In order to do the same as the Netherlands, it is necessary that we also get our administration in order and that we can provide sufficient figures to support it. The improvement of the I&R system, to which we are working hard and with which we come at the beginning of next year, is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	So it is true that Belgium has already done so. I do not understand why the cabinet did not do this on its own, as the Chamber has been asking for an effective plan of action since 2008. The situation is that dogs from Eastern Europe can still come to the Netherlands and can be laundered through a fraudulent administration like a Dutch dog. The cabinet refuses to accept the proposals made by the Chamber in order to deal with this. It is true that a motion by Mr Graus was adopted two weeks ago calling on the cabinet to do more against the illegal puppy trade. Yeah, the cabinet says, that's what we're gonna do. It's easy! But if it gets concrete, stop imports from Hungary, cancel the vaccination booklet and come up with a registration obligation, then the cabinet says: no, that goes too far for us. That's how I can do it. The cabinet will have to make real work of the promise to stop the illegal puppy trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	It's not going too far. We believe that something must be done. That is why we have had that evaluation done and have informed the Chamber that a number of things must be done. That is why we are also improving the I&R system. That is absolutely necessary. Mrs Ouwehand says that it is still happening, but everything is happening in a country against which you have to act and where as a government you have to be clear what you do and do not accept. We made that very clear. There are severe penalties for non-compliance with veterinary requirements. You can even get a prison sentence of up to four years. If you fake pieces, there'll be a maximum prison sentence of six years. There is no doubt that it is taken seriously. It is also clear that we have done everything necessary. I have tried to convey that we are now working hard to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	We are going to vote on a number of motions on this point. I suggest the Chamber just take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	That motion of mine has already been passed. Mrs Ouwehand's appeal is therefore not necessary. I'm asking the Minister how he's going to implement my adopted motion against puppy trade. In addition, I have been saying since 2006 that heat cameras are needed to scan the shadowy vans for living beings, not only on animals but also on humans. We also took care of the animal police and 144. In 2010 we made sure that the government agreement stipulated that the bread farmers, the illegal traders, should be dealt with. So a lot has happened. But now I would also like to ask the Minister, too, to ask the Minister for Security and Justice, who is now behind the Minister for Economic Affairs, to increase the penalties. We've got to get the punishments up. Illegal puppy dealers need to be grabbed by their shoelaces. They must be thrown into prison. They should be banned from keeping animals for a lifetime. That's how you hit them in the heart. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Graus raised the issue of the restraining order and asked for a motion to be put to the vote, but at oral Question Time I cannot simply shuffle the answers to that question. I have just outlined in general terms what we have arranged on the issue of penalties. I think that's more than enough. So that's not what this is about. I have indicated that this particular case has also come to light when it comes to monitoring and re-checking. I also indicated that we are improving the registration system. It is well known in the Chamber that about 25 people are fully involved in this type of matter and that action is being taken against it. The police have 160 task holders who are also partly available for this purpose. We've got a few things in order, but we're not there yet. It's an important matter that we get on with this. What has gone wrong is bothering me, just as the questioners are bothering me. That is why I think it is important that we work on it in a consistent and powerful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Graus, I can see you, but the PVV has already asked two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have the number of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	You can mention the number of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	It concerns motion 34550-XIII, No. 88. I would like a response to the question of how the motion is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	No, Mr. Graus. Thank you for the song. I thank the Minister.
