ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	Chairman. Last Friday's broadcast of Nieuwsuur showed that there are very dangerous situations with drones, for example around airports. In part, we already knew that dangerous things are happening around that, but I think it is right that we should consider how we are going to deal with this. It scared the hell out of me anyway. If a drone is sometimes a toy, sometimes a camera and sometimes something else that is thought to be something nice, an accident with a large plane happens, you not only put your own drone of a number of euros at risk, but also the life of all the occupants of that plane. Of course, we all do not want that. The Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeerskliegers is also very concerned. They say, "It's actually waiting for people to die." Those are pretty spicy words, and I think that is why we need to talk about them. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. The incidents brought to light in Nieuwsuur occurred in Paris. Are such incidents also known in the Netherlands and occur here? The Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeerskliegers says that it could happen here as well. What about the laws and regulations in this area, the legal framework? Is the cabinet working on this at all? When can we expect clear rules to come about? What is expected of the cabinet when you see the appeal of the Dutch Association of Traffic Pilots? They say: the cabinet must act now, otherwise things will go wrong. Is it clear to the cabinet what is expected of the cabinet in this and who has the lead in it? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that there has to be some kind of awareness that you just don't do this, that you put people at risk with a nice-looking toy or something else you do it for, for example for business reasons? People need to realize that this is dangerous. What could happen in that? Now every drone must have some kind of driver or pilot on the ground, while mini drones the size of a bug could work very well in swarms, for example in greenhouses or in a large hall for security. You don't have to drive it in person again. That is precisely where the rules that are there hinder development. How does the Secretary of State view this? Can it enable this development in the Netherlands? The technical universities in the Netherlands have long and wide been so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is very good that Mr Van Helvert is asking for attention today for flying drones, if only to raise awareness among a very large audience that you should indeed be very careful. Mr Van Helvert has asked a few questions. I'd like to answer that. There is simply a legal framework in the Netherlands. We have strict rules for drone use. There are two categories in this. First of all, there are the people who fly a drone from a recreational point of view. They must be at least 3 kilometres away from an airport and the controlled airspace around it. In addition, of course, we have a category of people who work with drones professionally. This can be done under strict conditions closer to a controlled airspace, but then they must have the ILT's consent. In itself, the rules are there, but they must be respected. That's where the core is. You can see that there are a lot of reports and that they are followed up. This has led to regular reports in recent years. There are also incidents with drones in the Netherlands. There is also just about message via e.g. reports from the ILT. There have been two serious incidents in recent years. That was in 2013 in Harderwijk, where a drone almost collided with a motorplane, and in 2014 in Nistelrode, where a near collision had to be investigated. Fortunately, in both cases, no one was injured. But it shows how important it is for us to let people get through that awareness. That is why the public campaign Safe flying with drones has been set up. Mr Van Helvert's final point is about making innovations possible. We are working at European level to bring about a level playing field in order to ensure that this is taken into account. But here too, security is always paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thanks for the answer. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that the legal framework already offers sufficient scope to tackle the existing problems, but that it is only in enforcement? Then I wonder what the appeal of the Association of Dutch Traffic Pilots means. It says that action must be taken and that better, more or clearer regulation must be put in place so that this cannot happen. I assume that France has rules on this too, and yet things are going wrong there. Or is that just enforcement? Perhaps it would be wise to consult with the Dutch Association for Traffic Flyers on this matter. Is that consultation there, or is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with her? Does the Commission intend to inform the Chamber of any follow-up action taken by the Cabinet, including enforcement, which the Secretary of State himself mentioned? The Secretary of State says she wants to make innovation possible, but safety is paramount. Certainly, but at universities, for example, safety in innovations is also a priority, but the innovations cannot continue because they are a little further away. I understand that a ministry is of course never as innovative as a university, but how can a ministry make it possible for that innovation to happen? For greenhouses or horticulture it would be an ideal means, but also for example to ensure safety in a large hall in Schiphol. That might be possible, but it is not possible because of the existing legislation. What can the Secretary of State do in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	My response to Mr Van Helvert's first point is that we have regular consultations with the association, but I am very willing to ask her what she still lacks in the regulation. My impression is that the regulations are ready to go. At the same time, I see that both the aviation police and the Royal Marechaussee and the police maintain. If anything is reported, it is followed very often. If that is a matter of concern, then we must discuss it with each other. I will. I'll send a report of that conversation to the Chamber. On the second point, we are already well ahead in Europe because we have not been waiting for legislation but have already introduced it, even from the point of view of security. At the same time, we are doing so in stages because we want to do so wisely. Some of the examples refer to lighter drones. We intend to enable the introduction of the lighter drones in the next stage of the regulation and to bring the recreational and professional use more in line with each other. Here too, this must be done in accordance with safety rules and in order to minimise the risk of innovation, but we must continue to pay attention to each other. The beginning of Mr Van Helvert was strong in this Question Time. He said: let us avoid incidents. He can always call me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is good that Mr Van Helvert has sparked this debate. The last tip in the campaign to deal wisely with drones is: use your mind. As a result of this incident, we have seen that this is not the case for everyone. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure very quickly that a registration system is connected to these drones? Right now, you can't see who owns a drone. If you can catch someone, it's nice, but it's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. One question. Or if you want to ask two questions, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. Let me first get this answer and then come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	I do not know whether I can answer the last question properly in the short term, because I cannot see what I can do with such a commitment. Especially in the case of recreational use, this will undoubtedly entail an enormous administrative burden, and this must also be enforceable. At the same time, I very much agree with the first part of Mrs Belhaj's question: just using common sense is absolutely on the agenda. Everyone understands that with a drone that you use recreationally, you stay away from an airport. It is really a pity that we need a campaign to make that clear to the people, but we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs. Belhaj, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr President, thank you for the understanding, caution and commitment. I can guarantee the Secretary of State that it's an innocent commitment. In fact, it is an important commitment because, if an incident really happens, it can be fatal. I don't have to explain that to the Secretary of State again. I would ask her once again to come back to this and perhaps in a letter indicate the possibilities of doing so and to include the enforcement, fines or whatever, so that we can prevent such incidents from leading to terrible accidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	Of course, I am prepared to provide information on this point in the letter which I will send to the Chamber anyway, including the potential for registration. In the end, it is a matter of reporting above all, as I see it, that people do so well and actively and that we follow up on these reports and thereby maximise the chances of getting caught. This may not necessarily be promoted by registration, but by a very active policy in this area. I'm afraid that's necessary.
