ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	We'll continue with the first term of the Chamber. I call Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Our education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. Children deserve to be taught by well-educated professional teachers who have authority. For good teachers we also need good teacher training and time and space for the teacher to train and to work in team on teaching preparation, intervision and evaluation of lessons. The CDA is concerned about the growing shortage of teachers, but it does not see any reason to negotiate with admission requirements for the pabo and teacher training. It is precisely high training requirements and high entry requirements that will increase the attractiveness of the profession and, in the long term, ensure that the best pupils opt for teachership. To promote this, the CDA wants to focus on "teachnasia." In it, the pabos and the secondary education work together and offer additional courses, switching programmes and internships to seduce havescholielen or vwo-scholielen to the teacherhood. This is also the opportunity to challenge male students to choose teachership, as well as immigrant students. This allows more diversity in role models for the classroom. Can the rulers state what is going to happen to my motion on this point? The CDA is in favour of a more specialist pabo in which, after a general year, there is a specialization in the young or the older child, in which deep digging knowledge is acquired about the stages of development, in which there is more scope for pedagogical and didactic knowledge and in which more practical experience is gained. An additional advantage of this is that the male pabo students present today often prefer to teach in the superstructure. They can therefore focus in this proposal on primary school pupils in that superstructure. Can the Minister state what she's up against? Does she share the CDA's ambition? Does it recognise that it would be unwise to lower the admission requirements to the pabo for, for example, MBO students? Should we not keep the entry requirements correctly or focus on the specialization to be chosen? A good teacher in the class provides good education and contributes to good development opportunities for students. Yet we see that there are obstacles in our education system. Our early selection after primary school is a blessing for some typical VMBO students and typical gymnasies, but for other students in whom it is only later possible to determine which level suits them best, it is not good. The number of broad bridge classes, roofing bridge classes or extended bridge classes has fallen dramatically in recent years. In a culture of risk-avoidance, schools sometimes steer at a low level, while setting high expectations can challenge pupils enormously. The CDA therefore wants to encourage school communities to opt for more broad bridge classes, roofing bridge classes or extended bridge classes in the interests of student development opportunities. If we are to offer equal opportunities, we must also value young people in practical education and in vocational education to what they can rather than emphasise what they cannot do. The diploma could be a great instrument for this. This will enable young people up to the MBO 1 level to understand their professional skills and thus increase their chances in the labour market. When can we expect the Minister's intention to draw up the diploma? When will the grant scheme, which now applies to vocational education, also apply to practical education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	To all those who are about to interrupt, I say that the interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	Very briefly, can Mr Rog say something about how he wants to stimulate these broad bridge classes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	That's a fair question. I think we are coming out of a situation in which equal pay is increasingly being used for the individual directions. I would very much like to keep that for the pupils who belong there and at the same time look for tools in wider school communities..................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, after four years of social democratic education policy, inequality of opportunity has only increased. Now, in the aftermath of the cabinet, the Minister chooses an equal opportunities coalition. It seems a bit like the Minister first set fire to the place, now distanced herself from her past and shouting to everyone: look how good I am putting out the place. The most pregnant is the introduction of the loan system, which has reduced the number of mbo's passing to the hho by 15%. Throughout the equal opportunities coalition, there is no concrete plan to offer these young people opportunities for further training in HBO. Does the Minister simply accept this decline? Transitions from one type of education to another always offer opportunities, but also lead to a fallout. The CDA wants to improve the transition from VMBO to MBO. For that I have tabled a motion to start switching paths, so that more vmbos will be successful in the MBO. That point is reflected in the equal opportunities coalition and the Minister's letter. That's very nice, but with a range of 3,000 to 5,000 students there can be a bit of ambition. What is the reason why ambition is so limited? Is that about money or capacity? I would like a response from the Minister. In relation to labour market developments, too few VMBs opt for a technical profile. The number of technical VMBOs has been halved over the past 15 years. In 200 municipalities, including even large cities, such as Utrecht, Leeuwarden and Haarlem, the offer of technical vmbo is actually dramatic. Schools as well as VNO-NCW and SMEs complain that the funding is lagging behind, but the Secretary of State has promised that he will prevent a blow in the technical vmbo. Entrepreneurs are allowed to report; then he intervenes. Well, those entrepreneurs checked in, yesterday in the House of Representatives. What will the Secretary of State and the Cabinet do about the cuts in the science hubs, the regional networks of secondary education and higher education and the Science Technology Platform? Is this not in stark contrast to the need to opt for technology? Refugees in the Netherlands also deserve equal opportunities for access to education. Refugees who want to study in MBO should also be able to count on good guidance. Is the Minister prepared to examine, together with the foundation for refugee students, the UAF, the MBO Council and Refugee Work, how best to organise this organizationally and financially? Together with the VVD and the PvdA and student and student organizations, we have opened the attack on the fallout, because also the flow from vo to ho can be better, especially now, with the high debt mountain against which potential students are hijacking by that maleized loan system. Students have their own responsibility, but they also deserve to have good high-level matching activities, such as a serious conversation, a real picture of what is expected of them and the labour market perspective offered by the training. The CDA also wants to accommodate chronically ill and disabled students, who have left the loan system on a massive scale since the introduction of the loan system. 20% less influx of young people with disabilities into HBO is unacceptable. The CDA wants a financial concession for these students, for example by giving them an additional year's grant. In addition, the CDA would like to open up the possibility for disabled people and chronically ill to pay per credit instead of per year if it is already clear in advance that they will not reach the nominal number of credits. In the engineering sector, employers are crying out for highly qualified staff. The government also sees this and invested millions in successive years, including the Platform Beta Technique and the Technics Pact, in order to tempt more young people into a study in technology. Finally, this approach has been successful. At last, more young people are structurally opting for a technical study. In fact, there are so many that twelve courses have now set up a student stop. And what does the Minister for Higher Education do? Nothing at all! In her answer to written questions from the CDA, she does not go much further than pointing the finger at business. However, if society wants young people to opt for technology, we must also give them the opportunity to continue their training. This is in their interest, but also in the interest of society. The CDA wants the Minister to take action now and do everything in his power to undo the announced numeri fixi. In addition, we want the Minister to carry out a solid and independent study into the adequacy of student benefits in the different fields of study. I am making this request with Mr Duisenberg. The CDA Group sees that Dutch colleges and universities are becoming increasingly attractive to foreign students. A very significant proportion of these students are trained here, but eventually they will go back to studying in the country of origin. That's nice for those students and it's also nice for the country of origin, but here it leads to problems. In some of these students, we allocate money, while in studies with numeri fixi we do not train enough people for our own labour market. Does the Minister recognise this development and, if so, what is it going to do about it? Isn't this part of the solution to the problem of student stops? If we consider lifelong learning to be so important, how is it possible for the Minister to make substantial cuts in the training allowance? After old social democratic use, it brings forward money from the future. So that's a game of pottering, while the Chamber doesn't yet know what the new stripped-out subsidy scheme is going to look like. Does the Chamber have anything to say about that later? Last week, the AOW age was raised again. Will we take this opportunity to open up lifelong learning credit to workers over 55 years of age? The school is small society. It is the place where you learn to deal with differences, where you learn that you have rights, but also duties, where you learn how to interact and where you learn that equality is something other than "everyone is equal." Unfortunately, all the autonomy that students are awarded in new learning seems to be causing more and more problems of order in the classroom. The Education Inspectorate and the OECD are waking us up on that point. A lot of education time is lost with Wi-Fi problems, computer start-up and hassle. Students often pay more attention to social media during the lesson and to watching stupid videos than to their teacher for the class. The worst thing is that this behavior is often accepted, because the lesson must of course remain fun. And well, as long as the test gets fixed later. But the learning climate in the classroom is suffering from this. And well, Sem and Sterre will eventually get their tests through expensive homework desks, at least if they count for the report. But Said and Cheryl are pulling out. Education deserves the restoration of the teacher's authority. This is a task for directors, for school leaders and for teachers themselves, but also for the government. It should, for example, maintain that the lessons are taught by qualified teachers. He must not always want to interfere with the content of the lessons. It should not force new mandatory tests over and over again. The CDA is therefore co-author of an initiative law by Mr Bishop of the SGP on the withdrawal of the diagnostic interim test. He'll explain it later. Education is not only about getting the most out of yourself, but also about what you can do for each other in society. It is precisely at this time that citizenship is crucial. Vwo'ers and havists get an important subject as a social study, but in some MBO schools citizenship is a bit attached: no coherent curriculum, no compulsory subject and no competence requirements for teachers. The CDA wants this to change. That is why, together with Mr Mohandis, I am preparing a motion on this subject. In addition to the very valuable content of citizenship in the professional subjects, MBOs deserve to learn about our democratic rule of law, to learn to think critically about it, to exercise democratic citizenship under the guidance of a qualified teacher. That is someone who can spark the fire among these students to participate in our society, as in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	I would like to come back to the reproach of those who have released money in order to maintain the funding of technical universities in the long term. I'm talking about the CDA counter-plan. I have heard that you want to re-introduce the basic grant, that you want to keep the investment going and that you want to keep up the full path map, which, according to all the studies, is as expensive as the current public transport card. I don't know if you have any idea what that should cost. What are you thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	I understand that we are now going from the 2017 budget to the 2017 election programmes for the elections. You do not see me as a counter-budget on this issue this year, because I know that the Labour Party and the VVD have a large majority in a pact with D66 and GroenLinks that can stop such a thing. The CDA does indeed make the choice in its election programme to re-introduce that basic grant. We consider the declines in HBO to be important, for example the -20% disabled students. Also the MBOs do not flow through: 15% less. There are almost 15% fewer first-generation students. We must give them the equal opportunities that we always talk about in this house so that we can finally study in HBO. The CDA considers this to be more important than a free public service right. We want students to retain the opportunity to travel from home to institution. They can upgrade this to the current level in new contexts. Curiously enough, they also have the money for this, I say to Mr Mohandis, because we are restoring the basic grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	The questions must be brief and so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	The CDA cannot restore the basic grant with the plan launched by colleague Rog. I'd like to talk about those choices. Take the O.V. card. Mr Rog indicated that he wanted to keep a path map, i.e. from place of study to place of residence. I would like to tell him that it is as expensive as maintaining a full public health card. The OV-kaart for all mbo'ers is a long-cherished wish and becomes a reality as of 1 January 2017. Can Mr Rog guarantee that it will not be destroyed simply because the CDA wants to restore the basic grant? That is what I hear from the speech about morbidity on the public health card.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	I continue to find it very interesting to have the debate on this issue. The chairman will allow it, and I'd be happy to go into it. We say that it is precisely in the interest of all those MBO students, of which 15% is now less flowing to HBO. I really think that's a terrible number. That should be a concern for a Social Democrat like Mr Mohandis. I want those students to be able to get into HBO with a scholarship. And yes, I would prefer that there should be a more restricted right of residence to university or MBO institution than that there should be a free right of residence and 15% fewer MBOs that flow to HBO. By the way, the loan system coalition has another 200 million on the table for the austerity of the public transport card. Students at the CDA know what they're up to. In the Bachelor's phase, they have the right to travel from home to institution with a basic scholarship. In parties like PvdA and D66, they don't know that. What they do know is that they have lost their basic grant and that 200 million will be cut on the O.V. card.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	The answer must be really short and contain no repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	We had a very fervent debate on accessibility not so long ago. Any motivated MBO who wants to study can study with this system. It will have to show how the final figures work out. I shall leave the figures which Mr Rog is distributing for his own account. I note from all the words that the investments proposed by the four parties that took responsibility are not in safe hands with the CDA. They're moaning at the O.V. card. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	I would like to have the opportunity to respond to that. Mr Mohandis would have been delighted if he had told us in what way the PvdA would have completed the 200 million reduction in civil law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	You can ask him when it's his turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	At the CDA, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	I can help Mr. Rog. This is because the plan is not at all designed to remove it. The plan is to make better use of it, and that's money. That plan is still under investigation. Mr Rog is therefore served at his beck and call. However, my question is not about that. Mr Rog says that he wants to re-introduce the basic grant for the Bachelor's phase and that this is paid out of the austerity of the State. We're going from an O.V. year card to a path map. Mr Mohandis has already said that this is not working at all. That's what we've been investigating. It is just as expensive in terms of administrative burden, so it yields zero euros. The cover for the necessary investments in higher education must therefore come from somewhere else. In the current system there is a substantial increase in the supplementary grant. Is that also a cover the CDA has in mind? Is the increased supplementary scholarship going down again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	Just as Mr Van Meenen cannot at the moment give an exact explanation of how he is going to cut the 200 million on civil law, I cannot give all the ins and outs, because we are also calculating. The basis is that we're gonna fix the basic grant and we're gonna get rid of the O.V. card. As in D66's plans, we will free money with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u19	The free play is an illusion. That's a real illusion policy. This will of course be borne in mind by the long-standing transfers of funds. My question is very specific: is it to bring down the increased supplementary grant as it applies in the new system, part of the CDA's plan, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u20	I cannot say at this point how everything is going to go, because we are indeed in the process of passing on the accounts. What I point out is that we are restoring the basic grant, because we see that a simple system in which everyone, whether living at home or living at home, gets a certain amount, was more attractive and generated less borrowing fear than the very complex system with a huge administrative burden and a huge levelling effect, in which hundreds of millions did not end up in higher education. We'll fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u21	Exactly, that leveling! Mr. Rog is full of opportunities. This new system is leveling in the sense that the money goes from the basic grant to the people who really need it. We're still spending $2 billion on study funding. And what the CDA does is give it back to the people who don't need it at all. The CDA is taking it away from the people who do. I know enough when I hear Mr Rog's answer: that supplementary grant is going down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u22	I would also like to continue on this point. Mr Rog has a bit of a wrap around it when it comes to cover and the like. If I try to follow his reasoning, he's gonna say, "I'm gonna get that from the O.V. card." It now applies to all students and I'm going to return it to a basic grant that applies to all students. Isn't it a cigar out of your own box?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u23	No, it's not. It will be clear that the public transport card will not cover the whole amount. So there will also have to be a different way of getting money. It's as simple as that. That's a choice the CDA makes. I am very pleased that Mr Grashoff's party has also been in the process of massive resistance to the effects of this loan system. Indeed, I can only imagine that GroenLinks and the CDA are going to look for a good alternative that will make higher education more accessible. 20% fewer disabled people, 15% fewer MBOs passing through, almost 15% fewer first-generation students. Mr Grashoff, you should be concerned about that. That's bad, and we have to try to fix it. That's what the CDA wants with his program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u24	I don't notice any massive resistance in my party at that point. Moreover, I do not yet notice that the student organisations are now all in favour of reintroducing the basic grant. Because they don't. I don't know which supporters the CDA wants to serve here. What I do know is that it's extremely dangerous. With the words that Mr Rog is now saying, I must agree with Mr Van Meenen. I can feel it coming: it's going to be on that supplementary scholarship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u25	I conclude that it is more important for GroenLinks and D66 to level at the expense of students than that accessibility is at the heart of these parties. They accept a reduction in the number of students, particularly in higher vocational education. If only they could push through that leveling! The CDA does indeed make a different choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would like to say that I am doing this budgetary treatment together with my colleague Mohandis. He will focus in particular on secondary vocational education and higher education, while I focus on primary and secondary education. Children and young people learn to know the world around them step by step, through family, friends, important role models and above all education. Every child grows up in different circumstances, gets other opportunities from home and has other talents. This makes every child unique, and that is precisely why it is so important for our education to be able to adapt to the needs of students and students. We have world-class education in the Netherlands and one of the best knowledge-based economies in the world, but there are doubts as to whether our education is still able to raise people up. Too often the origin of a child determines the chances that that child gets in life, and that is unacceptable. Children of highly educated parents often follow homework guidance, there is often more money for cultural excursions and parents make faster calls when school advice is too low. I believe that all children deserve that much in the back, even if the parents have no money for exam training or if the children have a language or learning retardation. Do children of different origins and backgrounds still meet at school? Or is education going to contribute to the division in society? That is a constant struggle that we must continue to fight. We must not look away, but we must continue to work together. This task calls for our very best education, in which we offer teachers room and do not force children to choose too early. This calls for a balance to be struck between the school advice and the Cito score. It is necessary to allow the flow to a higher level for anyone who wants and can. The Labour Party continuously fights for equal educational opportunities for each child. This led us to come forward with the equal opportunities initiative paper last June and to make concrete proposals. Within the budget, the Minister, at our request and on the basis of our proposals, is allocating financial resources to promote equal opportunities in education. Last Monday it presented an action plan to promote equal opportunities in education. In this we see many proposals from the Labour Party coming back, such as the implementation of the Ypma/Van Meenen motion. The cabinet draws on this motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u27	Do you finish your sentence first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u28	I just started a new part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u29	Okay, Mrs. Siderius?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u30	That's exactly why I want to interrupt now. I'm talking about the 25 million. I think Mrs Vermue was just about to say that the cabinet will pay 25 million for this in 2017. I have read the initiative paper of the Labour Party with interest. When we talk about financial soundness, Mr Mohandis: the plans in the own-initiative paper are 3 billion, added together. How then is it that in 2017 this cabinet will only pay 25 billion to take over those equal educational opportunities and all those initiatives of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u31	We are allocating EUR 10 billion in the coming years for equal educational opportunities and good investment in education. This 25 million is a start. 87 million over three years, and then structurally 25 million. If we continue to work together with the SP to promote equal educational opportunities, this amount will only increase in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u32	I wonder if the PvdA passed the math test. When Mrs Vermue looks at her own financial justification, she sees quite a few assumptions in her financial paragraph. That's what she's confirming herself. If you just add that up, you're going to be 3 billion. Then I wonder what part of the PvdA plan her minister will be able to implement next year, for the 25 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u33	You are talking about an investment in education, but as Mr Duisenberg said in his speech, this cabinet has already invested heavily in our education over the past four years. We have earmarked billions that are now going to education, to the children, to the classroom. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot follow Mrs Siderius' comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u34	Finally, Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u35	If we want to implement all the plans that you have written down in your own initiative paper next year, it will cost 3 billion. But there's only 25 million available next year. Then what plan in your note do you want to implement? Then what do you choose? Or do you say: it doesn't matter so much, it's nice for the stage and we'll see. That 10 billion will be spread over 15 years. My colleague mentioned it this morning, and that is also in your plan. That's not even 1 billion a year. Then what do you choose? What are you going to bet the government's 25 million dollars for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u36	I really wonder whether Mrs Siderius has read the letter on equal opportunities correctly. It looks at broad bridge classes and links. Many proposals are being made, which result in great success from our own initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u38	I had stayed with the Ypma/Van Meenen motion. On the occasion of this motion, the cabinet will spend 3 million and will also carry out an experiment in which teachers will be in the classroom for up to twenty hours in a number of schools in the Netherlands. They are given space to prepare their lessons together and to give each other feedback. This is important, because teachers in the Netherlands are only in front of the classroom. They're just planning their classes and they're just learning. We ask teachers to pay attention to the different needs of their students in the classroom. We ask teachers to pay attention to the fact that every student has an equal opportunity for good education. This requires a good preparation of lessons, for which we want to give space. Teachers have an indispensable role to play in providing opportunities for all pupils. They can really make a difference. But many teachers have a much too high workload, which means that the children who need some extra attention are the victims. The teacher for the class deserves support to fulfil this role and he deserves confidence in his expertise. I ask the Secretary of State to monitor the implementation and implementation of the experiment, so that teachers actually experience more space to learn together. The Secretary of State sent the Chamber a letter on this matter yesterday, in which he commented on the scenarios, but I would also like the added value of the experiment to be looked at carefully. How is the Secretary of State going to oversee this? And how will the Chamber be involved in the progress? We want the added value of participating schools and teachers to lead to added value for all teachers. During an education meeting in September, a young man of 14 from Amsterdam, Santana, asked why he is being tested at the end of primary school, while his brain is not ready for that. The advice of the teacher or master is currently leading the school advice in group eight. The level of education or income of your parents should not lead to too low an assessment of the teacher. The Cito test in group eight is a snapshot and, together with the teacher's advice, leads to careful advice. If the Cito score deviates in a positive sense, schools are legally obliged to critically review the teacher's or master's school advice. Are these schools only obliged to look at this critically, as stated in the letter on equal opportunities? Or are they, as the Labour Party wants, also obliged to adjust the school advice upwards? In any case, we are coming up with a proposal on this in the light of the debate we have just had and the input of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u39	The Labour Party seems to have a kind of constipated distrust in the professionalism and advice of the teacher. How does Mrs Vermue propose that the advice of primary school teachers be drawn up on further education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u40	Teachers follow a student for eight years in primary school. We therefore attach great importance to their expertise. That is why it is so important that they are the first to be able to give their opinion. But if the Cito score deviates in a positive sense, we believe that students have the right to be admitted to a higher level of education in secondary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u41	I will help Mrs Vermue, because not only does the teacher's observation provide input, it is terrible that even I am already going to use English words for sound advice, but also the Cito tracking system, or any other apprenticeship follow-up system at primary school, is contributing to that. Mrs Vermue is actually saying that she considers one snapshot of equal value to the advice of an entire teacher team based on the entire school career, all the tests and the apprenticeship follow-up system. What is the danger in Mrs Vermue, which makes her so much on that Cito test or those other final tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u42	I thought that Mr Rog, in his contribution, distanced himself from efficiency thinking and the test culture, but that aside. We value the teacher's input very much, but unfortunately it still matters too often what your background and origin is. This often determines too much the teacher's school advice. We think it is important that these students should be admitted at the highest level resulting from the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u43	Finally, Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally. There's some real distrust of the teacher here, isn't there? How can Mrs Vermue think that this is because a student comes from another environment? Could it perhaps be that something like the absence of a stimulating home situation is the reason that one pupil receives higher advice than the other? It is a pity for the Labour Party, but we are not all equal in the Netherlands. The chances of successfully completing further education are also not the same for everyone with the same Cito score.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u45	We have a great deal of confidence in the teacher, who looks carefully with parents and students on the basis of eight years what is appropriate. That is why we trust that school advice will be much closer to the Cito scores, but yesterday was also in the news that, unfortunately, too few schools are reviewing on the basis of the Cito score. So it does not seem to be sufficient at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u46	I'd like to hold on to Mr. Rog's line. The PvdA should at least defend itself against the idea that it has no confidence in the advice of such a teacher, if a single snapshot can be more decisive than an observation of a number of years. Has the PvdA also considered, instead of this somewhat unclear and risky idea, whether there are other possibilities to offer students more opportunities, for example a double advice or flexibility in flow without having direct consequences for school assessment? If the PvdA has considered such options, why aren't they put forward prominently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u47	All those other prominent ideas, I'll be right back. We are very much in favour of broad bridge classes, multiple school advice, etc., but they are not sufficient. That is why it is important that we give children a chance if their Cito score shows that they may have a lot more to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u48	A child is a human being in development. It would be risky to allow a snapshot to determine the level of inflow. It is precisely the continuous development, with the possibility of further development and the level at which a child is studying, that would require much more attention. I would like to await further explanations from the PvdA. I would urge that, thinking from the child's point of view, we offer real opportunities. I hope that's the sound of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u49	It is important that children do not end up on a regular route through our education and that they are given equal opportunities throughout their entire school career. That also starts in eighth grade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u50	I hear the PvdA saying that the Cito test should actually get more weight. The Cito test is also very decisive for the way the inspection looks at a school. If you score several years below average, you're just called a weak school. However, Mr Rog has already said that we are not all the same: a school has a lot of children who are capable of striking a nail straight into a piece of wood, but that is not tested in the Cito test. How would the PvdA feel if we were to consider other skills more when assessing how well a school is doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u51	I think I recall that Mr Bruins has already made a proposal to this effect. We wholeheartedly support that. We think it is important for schools to be judged on equal opportunities and not paid for success rates, which forces them to give pupils less opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u52	I will come up with a concrete proposal on how to broaden this and then I hope to find the PvdA at my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u53	I await Mr Bruins' proposal with interest. I will continue my speech. It is important that children follow education that challenges them and that fits them sufficiently with their abilities. We do not want children at the age of 12 to find their way through education, but rather to offer their perspective. In response to Santana's question, we can then let him know that the test helps to see where he is in grade eight, but that he is given time in his secondary school to see which level of education fits and where his talents lie. Unfortunately, there are still schools that let their students drain quickly in order to keep the average final figures as high as possible. In the published lists of average final figures, these are fantastic schools, but they are not, as far as we are concerned, schools that give children the best opportunities. A school that knows how to deal with differences in learning pace and style is a school that can be recognised for this purpose. This school offers students the opportunity to learn in a way that suits their needs. Customisation is more than the right to excellence. As regards the Labour Party, the mandatory adjustment of school advice upwards in the case of a positive Cito score, multiple school advice, broad bridge classes and broad school communities offering at least two levels of education in the first years will become the norm. On average, students and students with lower-educated parents are, on average, still advised with greater caution with every transition in our education. This means that not every student reaches the right place from the first day. It is important that pupils should be able to follow education without additional thresholds at the level appropriate to what they are up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u54	What Mrs Vermue says about the broad classes of bridges has been taken from my heart. I also note that the Labour Party writes in its own plan that broad bridge classes with multiple levels of education should be promoted financially and in regulation. That is where the discussion with the cabinet focuses. On the broad bridge classes we have adopted a motion in my name. There would then be a plan of action, but that really did not happen at all. There's just a vague letter with some intentions. At least there's one thing the cabinet doesn't want, and that's financial incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u55	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u56	My question is whether Mrs Vermue agrees with me that we should do so and whether we could work together in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u57	In my opinion, the cabinet writes in the letter that it is not plausible to stimulate financially. So I see an opening in which we can undoubtedly agree. I ask the Cabinet to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u58	Fine, I'll put a concept motion on the PvdA benches. We are also in line with the flow-right: that must really be a right. In the plan of the cabinet there are plans for a right of transit from VMBO to HAVO, but only for students with the potential to succeed. That seems to me to have the required degree. Does Mrs Vermue agree with me that additional requirements are not at issue and that the right of transit should be guaranteed as a right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u59	Absolutely. But I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u60	On page 11 of your own initiative note, about the funding of the broad bridge classes, the Labour Party is in favour of a substantial bonus on broad school communities. That is very positive; we were quite enthusiastic about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u61	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u62	But now we read in the financial leaflet: broad schools and broad bridge classes can cost a lot. However, this depends entirely on the design of the financial incentive. With a shift of funding from schools that do not organise themselves as a broad school, this can be budget neutral. Does this mean in English that the Labour Party is going to financially punish the schools that are not broad schools, in favour of schools that are broad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u63	We think it is important for pupils to have equal opportunities. Broad school communities are an important condition for this. We want to explore how a positive incentive can be assumed in the funding. Because those schools give students more equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u64	That wasn't exactly an answer to my question. Can Mrs Vermue then explain what she means by the sentence: however, this depends entirely on the design of the financial incentive; in the case of a shift of funding from schools that do not organise themselves as a broad school, this can be budget neutral. What does Mrs Vermue mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u65	We want at least to go to schools that offer multiple levels of education in the first years of school. In terms of funding, we want to consider how what is going to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u66	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u67	Let's go to plain Dutch: does this mean that Mrs Vermue will punish non-wide schools, after which the money that is collected will be invested in broad schools? Yes or no, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u68	We are in favour of wider school communities, not punishment. But we do want students to have every opportunity. Wide-ranging school communities respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u69	My question refers to that. Mrs Vermue says that broad bridge classes become the norm. That sounds to me like category schools can't exist anymore. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u70	No, we think it is important that there are good cooperation arrangements in broad school communities. This may also mean that two schools work together in order to promote the flow of secondary education in the early years, so that a student who is potentially able to cope with a higher level of education will also have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u71	Shouldn't it be the goal of such cooperation instead of saying that you're going to punish one school for the benefit of the other schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mrs Siderius used the word "punishment." Cooperation is a good first step, but we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u73	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u74	Well, if someone's gonna put money away from me in favor of someone else, it's gonna feel like punishment, to be honest. Anyway, apparently the Labour Party doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u76	One of the thresholds is the admission code from VMBO to the HAVO which schools have established with each other. The agreement was made that the average final figure for a VMBO exam should be a 6.8 before a student with his diploma is admitted to the HAVO. We need to move towards the natural transition from VMBO to HAVO, so that such standards become superfluous. How's the Secretary of State gonna do this? The cabinet talks about first steps towards a flow-through right. As far as I am concerned, this commitment should be much more ambitious. When will that right be a fact? When have the thresholds been removed to accumulate diplomas? In the MBO this has already been organised through admission law. Let it take an example of this. The Labour Party calls on the Secretary of State to come forward with a bill guaranteeing the right of transit. Students and students deserve equal opportunities, even if their talents come out at a later age.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u77	I'm fascinated by this anyway. There is a code that has been agreed in the sector itself. With a 6.8, you can go from, say, Mavo to Havo. Mrs. Vermue wants to get rid of that. At the moment a lot of former sailors with a 6.8 average still remain in Havo-4. Doesn't Mrs Vermue think with me that we are failing the development opportunities of students who are about to get a right, because that's what's so good about it, if we send them to Havo-4 just because they feel like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u78	I am very surprised by what Mr Rog says here, because failure should never be an excuse to maintain thresholds in education. This means that we have to look together to see how we can eliminate these thresholds. With a legal right of transit, we want to prevent new thresholds being raised in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mrs. Vermue pretends those thresholds are there to bully students. Those thresholds are there because you can see in a predictable way that a particular student is not going to make it. That's what the teachers do out of taking care of those students. Diederik Samsom, of Mrs Vermue's party, drove with a superschool in Rotterdam by Eric van 't Zelfde. Does Mrs Vermue know what the code is there, what number of mavols can flow to the Havo? That's a 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u80	That does not alter the fact that we want to remove all the thresholds. If we maintain the admission code, this still means that we are taking away students who, for example, reach a 6.7, the opportunity to follow education at a different level. We believe that a diploma should be sufficient to allow it to pass to the State. I'm asking the Secretary of State what he's doing to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u81	It's like we're suffering from a collective amnesia. On 7 October 2015, a motion was tabled and adopted by a large majority in this Chamber, which states: "The government asks students with a VMBO-TL and VMBO-GL diploma to give the right to flow to the HAVO." That motion was, by the way, now I am going to help Mrs Vermue a little bit, supported by Mr Rog of the CDA, and he has also voted in favour of it. I do not understand his plea here at all. So that motion is just there. Do we have to ask for something nicely or should we just say: goddamn it, sorry, goddamn it, Secretary of State, just do this without further ado or buts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u82	I can wholeheartedly support Mr Grashoff. I agree. But we can go one step further, because we do not want new thresholds and we want to give students every opportunity in the future. That is why we also want a flow towards secondary education to be legally anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u83	Once again, I see an appalling lack of confidence in the professionalism of schools and teachers. As if, if further demands are made, that is to block the flow to the follow-up of students, rather than thinking from opportunities for those students. I do not want to challenge my personal experience, built up over decades and knowing exactly how it works from vmbo-4 to havo-4, why choices are made and why schools choose a certain threshold on empirical grounds. That's what happens for the student. The idea that the unambiguous right to flow guarantees the success of these children is now given priority. Why can't the PvdA just have more confidence in the professionalism of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u84	The right to flow must be guaranteed by a diploma. Why should we create additional thresholds? We have a great deal of faith in education. We believe that in the years that pupils are in education, prior to the diploma, they should be brought to justice and that the opportunities should be exploited to the full, so that the students can get the best out of themselves. I ask Mr Bishop why we should raise this additional threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u85	I note that this answer completely ignores my question, but I will leave that alone. Unfortunately, because I would have liked to have answered my question. Have you considered a possible undesirable effect of your proposal? If a diploma is to guarantee one-on-one the right to flow, you can guess three times what will happen to the course to be completed in order to obtain that diploma, a diploma that could be sufficient to flow into a more professional MBO, for example. You must ask yourself whether you are proposing this kind of rigidness and are not actually trying to get rid of the students you are trying to help and we are all trying to help. I'd like to reconsider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u86	I believe that Mr Bishop is doing this to combat symptoms. On the contrary, it is important to take a good look at how we ensure that education is properly aligned. So we face the challenge of removing that threshold instead of defending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u88	Knowledge and skills are of course extremely important, but it makes a lot of difference whether there is a study commitment, a practical focus or a more theoretical focus. In concrete terms, Mrs Vermue's proposal mentions the vmbo-t. If this automatically gives the right to flow to the havo, this means that every vmbo-t student who is more practically oriented and who will thus flow to the mbo, must pass under the same yoke. That is the big risk of the proposal that the PvdA is now launching. This is not in the interests of the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u89	May I respond to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u91	On the contrary, I think it is important that we give children and parents that opportunity and that we take their careful consideration seriously instead of excluding them. So I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u92	If we agree on something, it is that we all think in the interests of the students. But here we have a different perspective. I therefore tend to support those colleagues who have just been interrupting. Can't you see the exact opposite of what Mrs Vermue is talking about? Is the fight against symptoms not correct that, if a threshold is introduced, a selection criterion is applied: 6.8, or at the school in Rotterdam which quotes Mr Samsom where it is a 7, this is done because those training courses do not lead enough to the level after that. That is a sign of symptom control. After all, I do not like the 6.8 or the 7. Well, I guess I'll just get rid of that. That's symptom control, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u93	Schools seem to see risks of failure. This means that, just before that threshold is set, we need to look at how we can ensure that education is sufficiently compatible. That a threshold is undesirable... The question where we place that dot on the horizon to work towards a legal right of transit in secondary education lies ahead of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u94	Then I come to the conclusion that you come to the same conclusion as the one I came up with in my term: the order is reversed. The order is not to start with a flow-through right and to remove this criterion. No, the order is simply to start with the level of education, so the right level and direction of that pre-training to ensure that it is good enough. The last thing we have to do is lower the bar, because then all the students will be worse off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u95	If we want to give students and students the hope that they can get everything they want out of our education, then we must not set thresholds in advance. Then it is not a point of departure, but different measures that we take side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. Emancipating education. However long the route may be, in view of the late bloomers in our Dutch education system, this will always have to remain a core task. Challenging every talent to the maximum, because every talent has talent. To offer every child maximum opportunities, without talking about high and low in education. Looking at what someone can do, instead of what they can't. I call that uplifting education: the constant struggle to give everyone an equal chance. Before the summer, we presented an own-initiative paper containing concrete proposals. I am glad that the cabinet has taken on board many of these proposals in the letter. Education calls for the very best to give space to all these children and not to force them to make choices too early to prevent them being pinned down at a certain level at a young age. As a young thirties I experience education from different sides: as a former VMBO, MBO and student in higher education, over the past four years as a guest lecturer in many schools where I myself have had education and recently as a father, a father who has to make a choice for an elementary school, a preschool, daycare. I see beautiful examples in my own city of Gouda of how care, preschool and kindergarten are combined in the same building, where teachers know each other and continuous learning becomes reality. That's a beautiful picture to see. Education not only emancipates, but should also connect. This forming task of education is sometimes under pressure. Children learn respectfully to deal with each other and to share and cherish core values. No heated heads facing each other, but dealing with difference and an open conversation. Social issues have their effect in class. I see this struggle all the time when I'm visiting an average MBO setting. During the hearing organized by the Chamber following the report 2 worlds, 2 realities of Margalith Kleijwegt, this assignment proved more topical than ever: making the undisputable discussion possible, such as the struggle of young people who have many questions about sensitive issues. These deserve attention, a rebuttal, an open conversation. That is why we need to guarantee social education better and more fully in the MBO. In addition to the attention paid to social studies in professional practice, MBO students deserve to receive at least one year's work, as well as their peers on HAVO or VWO. I am glad that the young people in the MBO are making this proposal. I can also fully agree with co-initiator Rog on this point. The challenge in the MBO is huge and not easy. The links between vocational training should be better aligned and closer to the business community in the region. At an MBO institution, all parties must participate and make firm agreements on the direction of education, the guarantee of practical places and internships. It must not happen that motivated young people should leave school because there are no internships. At the end of the day, motivated young people should be able to obtain a diploma and not suffer from the lack of internships. That is and will remain our starting point. When we came up with a proposal to guarantee this, there was no majority for that. However, a motion has been adopted by Mr Jadnansing asking for a final approach to internships. What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? Can the Minister guarantee that there are no motivated young people in the country who would have liked to get the MBO degree, but yes, there was also an internship and the institution said "it's your responsibility, otherwise you'd better drop out of school"? Training should not be training for "no perspective." We therefore want existing training programmes to be checked regularly and, if necessary, completed more quickly if they are trained to nothing. How often have existing MBO courses been reviewed on behalf of the Minister? We welcome the initiative of students, colleges and universities to regularly review existing higher education programmes in the future on the extent to which they relate to the labour market and to social and scientific relevance. How's this going in the MBO? Which partners are involved in this? Does the Minister think that this could also be done in a different way so that the MBO can become more innovative and lead the way? The question must be which training courses we need tomorrow and which training courses young people can then offer a great deal of perspective. The outside world is changing rapidly and the MBO will soon have to act on it. I would like to mention the successes we have achieved in the past period, especially in the MBO. I am proud that many young people in the MBO will receive an OV card as of 1 January 2017 in order to be able to travel from home to study place. For a large number of young people in the region, the fact that they were faced with high travel costs at underage age was a problem. I am glad that not only has that been discussed in the last period, but that this point has also been realised. My group has had this wish for years. It's good that this is settled now. More resources have also been put in place to meet MBOs in their school costs, as can now be seen in this budget. There have been flow-through programs to do something about the illogical connection between the MBO and the HBO, which is there. An MBO gets a degree and then starts thinking about whether or not he's going to study. That's the reality of the MBO. That is why it is so important to teach MBOs in good time what the HBO will bring with them and what it is to study. There has also been more control in the MBO. MBOs, for example, have been given greater participation in relation to school costs and have been given a better position to discuss the budget. My next point is about stacking. We welcome the intention of the cabinet to provide financial incentives to institutions that give more opportunities to students who are stacking within the MBO. Eventually, any MBO who enters at a lower level must be able to flow to the level that is best for him or her. We also welcome the right of admission that we discussed in the Chamber not so long ago. We have done a lot in higher education over the past period. That's good. We have had an intensive discussion about the position of students and teachers and the extent to which they can talk. We've given training committees more power. We have also looked at participation in the introduction of the study advance on the resources available. Students must be in a position to do so, as they should. We have taken a major step in recent times. Work has been carried out on the so-called study advance and the social loan system. Maybe a little too much time has gone into that and it could have been quicker. This is all good for the evaluation, but since 1986 no such major reform has been carried out, precisely to ensure better and smaller-scale education for future generations. I therefore sincerely thank GroenLinks and D66. That's from the bottom of my heart. They have not only called for something else in the past, but they have also taken responsibility for what they consider important. That is why this has now been realized. I am convinced that this will be the norm in higher education for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u97	It is nice that GroenLinks and D66 are thanked again for taking responsibility for abolishing the basic grant. However, my question to Mr Mohandis is as follows. Does he feel responsible for the fact that 15% less mbos are currently flowing to HBO? He praises his minister here. All measures have been taken, all of which have cost money, but the effect of this is that there is now 15% less flow from MBO to HBO. Does Mr Mohandis feel responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u98	I feel responsible for introducing a very important measure to ensure the quality of higher education in the long term. You're gonna have to do a little more than just argue for that. I also feel responsible for the consequences. We had a detailed debate on these figures not long ago. We expected something to happen. On the basis of the final figures, we know exactly what effects there are. I also said at that time that a lot of MBOs do not know what the study advance is like, for example with regard to the increased supplementary grant, which you have already questioned, with or without covering your plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u99	We are not going to repeat the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u100	I don't want to do the debate again. I feel responsible, but the figures that Mr Rog is magical with must be proved. We want to give every MBO who's motivated that opportunity. This system also offers those opportunities. Mr Rog always assumes that this is not the case. I don't share that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u101	Perhaps it would be a good idea to go back to the debate on the introduction of that maled loan system. There were a lot of numbers and a lot of research has been done. I said in my own text that there would be 2,700 students less per year. These were in the first year after the introduction of the loan system 9.000; they were 9 000 young people who did not go to HBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u102	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u103	My question to Mr Mohandis is how he can beat himself and the Minister here because they would be so incredibly busy increasing opportunities if 9 000 young people did not take the step to HBO. That's almost four times as much... let me put it this way: that's more than three times as much as we expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u104	I also said in that debate that every young person who does not go because he or she is afraid is one too many. However, I also said at that time that I note that what we have arranged with each other and all the facilities that study makes possible and that ensure that all these young people not only go there but can also count on future higher education that really gives them the chance to get that diploma, are a package of measures that many MBOs I have spoken to say they do not know exactly what has changed. So there's a job there. Others always say that 'well, that's information'. However, that is very important, because a lot of these young people need to be told what studying means. You must also encourage them to do so, if they are willing to do so. Action is also being taken on the flow from MBO to HBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u106	Look at links and choices. I want every motivated young person in the MBO to go there when he's motivated and helped with everything that's needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u107	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u108	Then we always find each other on each other's side, because the assumption that we have put in place such an important measure to make that impossible is, of course, nonsense. I've never been in politics before. That is contrary to everything I have in my mind when it comes to fighting for good education. I had come to the performance agreements. We have said a lot about this in the context of the midterm review. These agreements relate to many measures, and it is good that we have considered them over the past period and put an end to them. I refer to the binding study advice in the second year of study and not tuition fees differentiation for excellence pathways but simply accessible talent programmes for all talents, as we discussed in the Strategic Agenda. Studying well for anyone who wants to combine this with, for example, a year of administration, is also possible due to the plan I presented with the VVD and the LSVb. This makes combining their studies much easier than paying for the academic year in which you only take a few courses. Colleagues Rog and Duisenberg have already referred to the Action Plan Attack on Uitval and a better study choice check. We want to make that clear with a proposal later. I look forward to that proposal, which I'm going to cooperate with. Given the agenda, we'll probably file it tomorrow. I'm rounding up. Four years ago, during my maiden speech, I told them about my parents and how they dealt with my school advice from the primary school teacher: embrace without contradiction or the urge to force a higher level. A teacher is authority, respect that. I can still hear my parents saying it. They probably would have been more involved in the education of their children, but because of a lack of knowledge of Dutch education it was sometimes complicated. My parents' rock solid confidence is that every child can get the best out of themselves, whatever level it starts at. It's always inspired me. The beauty of our emancipating education is that as a first-generation student, I finally had the privilege to take that step; to go to college, when no one in my area could tell me exactly what that is. This also makes it easier for me to fulfil my role as a parent, which I consider crucial for the success of children, and share with my own children. With me, there are many who happen to be the same. Education is for many the ladder that makes progress possible. We need to cherish that ladder. We must continue to strengthen it for every talent. After all, every talent is of value. And what's valuable is all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. Those very fine last words by Mr Mohandis. There seems to be a new theme on the education agenda: the inequality of opportunity. Of course, there is inequality between literate and illiterate environments, where there are no books and where there are no civilized discussions. But the claim that education would segregate instead of integrating is a gotsp. He does so much injustice to all those teachers, especially in the vmbo and in the rocks, who employ their working lives to elevate and emancipate left behind groups, especially newcomers. For 40 years, wonderful and costly educational projects have been devised and funded. This was always at the expense of regular education, because you can only spend an education euro once. Teacher teams have worked very hard to bring all these projects to a successful conclusion. There's still all this extra help. Did all those extra investments work? Well, for large groups of immigrant newcomers, yes. They have grasped the possibilities with both hands. Think of the Yugoslav, Spanish and Italian guest workers of that time, a long time ago; of the Cape Verdens in Rotterdam, of the Surinames, especially the Hindu Surinames, and rather of the Indian Dutch. For all these groups it was not easy, but their second generation found the way to the middle class quite effortlessly. They became participating Dutch people who share our values. To date, however, this integration does not succeed for large groups of Moroccan and Turkish Dutch, nor for Somalis and Syrians. They choose not integration, but a life in a parallel society. They choose to live in the middle of Rotterdam or in the middle of Gouda in their own country. These groups cannot help with an additional €87 million. But our education is also accessible to them. Hardly anywhere in the world that's as accessible as here. Responsibility for integration does not begin with government or education, but at home. Education must uphold standards. Every political intervention, and today we have talked about it again, in order to make education even more accessible, inevitably ends in a reduction in standards and in diploma inflation. The government should not therefore say goodbye to the idea of efficiency in education, because that is precisely what was created to stop this sneaky lowering of standards. We cannot and should not lower our quality standards to qualify groups of students and students who would otherwise not be able to make it. This was done at the time at Inholland and other colleges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u110	Once again we get a PVV-number bashing of Dutch people with other ethnic backgrounds. All the studies of the last few years show that young people with an ethnic background have made a huge catch-up in Dutch education: first to the MBO, now to the HBO and meanwhile they also start to get through to the universities. Of all these groups, Mr Beertema calls for them to live in parallel societies. As a blow to the head, he says that the Syrians also choose to live in a parallel society. These groups have been in here for the last few years. Even if it were, Mr Bertema would not be able to provide any evidence in the short term that there would be even a beginning of truth in it. I would like to call on Mr Beertema to stop saying nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u111	In answer to that, I would like to say: Mr Grashoff, open your eyes in Rotterdam, where you are well known, or in Amsterdam-West, Culemborg, Gouda and Zaandam. In Zaandam the scumbags, who could always sleep in, went to get a croissant at about eleven o'clock and then went out on the street with a camera to stare neighborhood residents. I'm talking about those people. That is the parallel society in which these people live. Mr Grashoff does not want to see that, I know, but he also believes in very other strange things that have not been proven. He likes to look away, that's his right. He's got his place here and he gets to do his story. I'm allowed to. It has nothing to do with bashing population groups, but it has to do with naming problems that he looks away from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u112	It is the same again: naming problems by the PVV, but not the least beginning of a solution to any problem. It is swooning and wallowing in naming problems of young people who jump out of the trap, on which we all agree, Chamberwide, that it cannot be done. But it is also not wanting to see, not wanting to recognize and not wanting to recognize all those large groups of young people who find their way in this society with different than Dutch backgrounds, sometimes with great difficulty. Those groups are all collectively put away by the PVV, over and over again, and I am done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u113	When you're done, sit down. You are obviously not listening either, because I have just mentioned large groups in which integration has been excellently successful. I am thinking of the Surinamese, the Cape Verdeans, the Yugoslavs and the Italian migrant workers at the time. What the hell are you talking about? I'm putting away all kinds of population groups. Not at all! Everyone's welcome. Share our values, do your best, and then you'll be fine. If you don't, vote GroenLinks. If large groups of citizens do not want to adapt, every extra euro disappears into a bottomless pit. I will tell you how it can be done, Mr Grashoff. By doing the same thing as all those other citizens, from whatever level of education and background, who want to make their lives a success. Speak Dutch at home, watch Dutch television, teach your children Dutch songs, read Dutch stories before going to bed, send the children to bed in time instead of letting them roam the streets, go to parents' evenings. Form your children into Dutch culture. In short: integrate. Only then will it be okay. If there are any problems, that's okay at all. Of course, there are still problems. Then there is the whole range of help, such as homework guidance, mentors, coaches, pedagogical assistance. I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, I've been there, It still exists, still does. I wonder what the critics want differently. Reduction of standards? Did we do that when we sent the native workers' children to the lts? Do we want the level of education to adapt to those who are left behind? Do we want to take over the parents' responsibilities? Entire generations of the indigenous subclass and of the immigrant newcomers have found the way to emancipation in the middle class with less or more difficulty through education. So there's more than enough help. As far as we are concerned, there is no extra euro for any more target groups policy. Now bring back the Cito test. The PVV advocated this on its own in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Let that test determine the choice of further education, where the teacher's opinion is advisory. That helps. It promotes the accumulation of training and improves the connection between vmbo, mbo and hbo. For example, restore the vm2 pathways in the MBO. Expand them with vm3 trajectories. They were successful. That's how we do meaningful things with our education money. This leads to more results when it comes to inequality of opportunity than the sneaking down of the norm. This is going to happen as it has happened before: no more new diploma frauds. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u114	There may have been many reasons to interrupt, but let me try to keep it a bit positive. I am also a passionate supporter of the vm2 pathways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u115	Then we'll hang out in there together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u116	That was my question. I've already got the answer. Let's do that. That is truly an achievement that we have lost. Mr Beertema agrees with me. I call all kinds of technology routes, the this route, the that route, full of obstacles and hassle. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u117	I'd like to respond to that. These vm2 routes were simple routes with a very nice collaboration between the local rocks and the vmbo's. Typical vmbo students who otherwise got lost in those huge, large-scale roc factories were brought in. The additional advantage was that an incredibly fruitful exchange took place between the teams of the VMBOs and the teams of the roc's. They came together on the floor, something new came up, and that was fantastic. It didn't cost much money and kept a lot of students inboard. As far as I'm concerned, we could extend that to, for example, vm3 Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u119	As far as we are concerned, there is a discrepancy between alpha-, beta- and gamma-sciences. OECD figures show that the Netherlands, especially compared to Germany, has a high above average number of social sciences students. As a result, the Netherlands produces a lot of educational innovations, which everyone will regret afterwards. I mention the reports on the blessings of gender-neutral toilets in primary education. We build gaybras, you know: those zebras. In Germany they build Porsches and Audi's. That's kind of the difference. The PVV wants, as in the MBO, a macro-efficiency plan in scientific education that can strengthen our national economy. There's been talk of it, but it's not getting anywhere. Does the Minister remember that Rotterdam had two MBO courses in urban dance? That was two because they were so popular with students. Those students then disappeared in the card boxes of the UWV. Fortunately, that's all normalized. Good hits have been made. But so many studies sociology, education, European sciences, gender studies, intercultural communication women's studies! You can't do that anymore, can you? The focus should be on technical education. The applications are going well, so good that there is not enough room to process that run-up. We have just talked about it: all kinds of tricks such as lectures in cinemas and even numerus fixus. But before we do that, the PVV would like to know how many percent of registered technical students are not Dutch. We have just talked about internationalisation in the small-scale debate. It's very important! But should we now encourage internationalisation in such a way that we will not be able to serve our Dutch students and students from China, Singapore or do I know much from where? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I would also like to hear a comment on the following. Not only I but many people find it incomprehensible that English has become the new language in wo and has replaced Dutch. Please return the Dutch language to the universities and do not let it become a kind of peasant language, as Dutch once was during French domination, while English becomes the language of the elite. The SP came up with a hard attack on article 23. As far as we are concerned, that article is fully maintained. As we know, we want to exclude Islamic education from it for the reason that our rule of law, our Constitution and our way of life cannot afford to allow the same freedom of education to an ideology diametrically opposed to all our values of equality, respect and tolerance, which ultimately wants to be replaced by Sharia. Islam means submission. It's a conquest ideology from our perspective. Mr. Chairman. Education is becoming more culturally-relativist every day, and that disturbs us in every way. This road-with-us mentality within education has led to the bankruptcy of the key objectives of integration. 40 years of integration education has ultimately led to voluntary segregation, culminating in a parallel society and Islamisation of education. At the same time, our own heritage is declared racist, see the black-and-white debate. That has corrupted the Sinterklaas party, which was a children's party for centuries. The focus on school should return to our Dutch identity and culture. I think of that flag and the national anthem, and of that superior Western culture in general. Western values and traditions must be guiding and visible in education. That is also an old task of education. That offers a future! I would ask the government once again to raise the flag at regular intervals in the context of this cultural resilience and in order to strengthen our identity as primary schools and vo-schools. The Dutch flag! That should be accompanied by our national anthem. In the United States, but also in Suriname... Mr President, I see that Mr Kuzu has taken the trouble to attend the debate. I haven't seen him all day, but now he's here. This is very common in the United States, but also in Suriname. It works, too. It contributes to the pride of being a Dutchman. It can't be that our tricolor barely has a place in the public domain. That is why I would also ask the President-in-Office to set an example to education and to give our flag a prominent place in our Parliament, preferably here in plenary. The flag deserves that, and our identity deserves that. Mr. Kuzu!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u120	In contrast to the PVV, DENK is a democratic party with members. That means we're also working on an election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u121	Very old-fashioned. Very old-fashioned!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u122	We had a meeting and I have to do several things at once because I only have a small group. A little more understanding and a little more relativity about Kuzu's presence in a debate would be desirable, but I also think it is nice that he missed me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u123	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u124	I would like to have a debate with Mr Beertema. I'd like to ask him if he's ever been to an Islamic school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u125	Oh, yeah. I've been to a number of Islamic schools. I've also been to a Cosmicus school, a Gülen school, as you know as much as anyone else in this house. Those are Islamic schools, and I visited them. I hate it. In the last few years I've been a teacher at Albeda College's secretary school, I've been dealing with groups of girls who are your city, right? They were raised in those attics, where those girls were kept apart. What do you call it? Boarding schools or something? Those girls were raised in the attic, brought to school in vans and were of course completely classically dressed. I've had a lot of fun with those girls, but I thought it was too terrible for words to go through what they were exposed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Kuzu!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u127	So I'm familiar with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u128	It is of course nice that Mr Bertema has been there. But did he also see what he's saying here? If so, how does it stand in relation to what he has seen, namely that they would be so-called breeding ponds of hatred? Does he have any experience with that? Did he actually have the right to consider it that way? I know that Mr Beertema is a strong supporter of the Cito test. When we look at that, we see that Islamic schools score a little better than the national average. If we look at the best elementary school in Schiedam, we can see that that's an Islamic school. Why the need to be constantly derogatory and to create an exception to Article 23 of our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u129	If there is an Islamic school here and there that scores slightly above the national average, it is absolutely beautiful. We have had a whole history of Islamic schools closed because not only the quality of education was very weak and there was no improvement, but also because the direction and governance of these schools was really too terrible for words. There was corruption. Lumpsum money, for example, was spent on pilgrimages and Mecca. Many things have happened there, and I can hardly imagine that Mr Kuzu now wants to give us an image of Islamic education as a model of good governance and great education. But it's not so much about those core targets. Those boarding schools are working hard on the core goals, but it's about what happens during homework counseling, about what happened to those girls I was talking about in the attic interiors, about the indoctrination that was committed there. Those girls all knew for sure that our secular laws were under sharia. It is the way they saw their whole lives destined for a man's service; the way they wanted to give their lives according to the traditions of the Koran and Hadith and the way they stood against terrorism and jihad. I've got the numbers right here in front of me. How much was it? 80% of Turkish youngsters in Rotterdam think terrorists are heroes? Was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u130	You know by now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u131	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u132	...that those cracked researches that the methodology doesn't make any sense at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u133	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u134	What matters is that a human image and a social image of Mr Beertema and of the PVV are displayed here that is contrary to what is happening in those institutions and in those schools. Mr Beertema should really look more closely at what is happening there, using a different human image and a different social image. That makes you happier yourself, Mr Beertema, and that also makes society happier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u135	And that's what you say on November 2, the day of death...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u136	Stop that brief world view of you! Take a broader look at the world around you, Mr Beertema! It'll make you happier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u137	And that's what we hear from Mr. Kuzu on November 2nd. On November 2, 2004, Theo van Gogh was murdered by Mohammed Bouyeri, even if someone who was so at home in "mohammedanism," I'll say, and who has produced a lot. And then you're gonna lecture me here, Mr. Kuzu, about my human image? I'd say, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr Kuzu, you may correct the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u139	Perhaps I could refer you to the fine note that Mr Dijkgraaf sent to Ebru Umar today. You've probably read it already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u140	I have my other favorite writers I prefer to read from, but Chairman, this is exactly the point. This is exactly what the PVV should get used to: a different human image and a different social image. You need to get used to it, Mr Bertema, that there are people in this society who are Muslims, who have a different background, but still make a full contribution to society. People who don't fit in the booth or the box you'd like them in. Time has changed. Question: Did Mohammed B. go to an Islamic school? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u141	No, by the way, are you making another contribution here, a text of speech? I'll be able to interrupt you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u142	It's his turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u143	It's his turn? Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u145	Well, what else? I think I've run out of speaking time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr Beertema said that the education of integration has failed for many years. I have a very sincere question for Mr Beertema. Meanwhile, in 2016, we are dealing with young people in primary education whose grandfather and grandma were born somewhere else. According to the definitions, you could call those kids native. What is Mr Beertema's message to those whole generation of young children, who are Muslims, who are Dutch, who are Gouwenaar and who participate fully in school? They go to school every day and do their best. It seems very much now that Mr Beertema's message is: it's nice to have them, but I don't have much with them. What is your message, Mr Beertema, to these young people with a Moroccan background?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u147	My message, not only to Moroccan young people, but to all young people is: do your stinking best! Take a good look around you in what beautiful country you have come or been born in, look at the blessings you can be a part of in terms of opportunity, but you have to do something for it! You can't just sit in a chair and wait for it to come to you. It's not like you're always a victim of circumstances. Take fate in your own hands! Go for it! Just do your homework sometime! Behave yourself sometime! Do not hang around and harass all kinds of residents of neighborhoods! Don't go to Syria! They are often very highly educated young people with a Moroccan background and a neat HBO education that eventually cut off very pre-modern heads in Syria. So that has little to do with emancipation. I would therefore like to say to them: distance yourself from Islam and from the Koran; integrate into the Netherlands and embrace the West, individual responsibility and individual freedom. I'd give them all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u148	You're suggesting that a lot of young people who just go to school every day, do their homework, participate fully and try to find an internship to get their MBO degree, are all doing very different things. I would say: listen to your own speech and wonder whether young people who were born here and whose parents were born here, but whose grandparents may have been born somewhere else, can really feel at home with the argument you are holding about this group. I do not hear anything, but nothing in your speech that advocates an inclusive society for the young people who are simply fully involved. I hear a whole speech about what's wrong, but also think about all those girls who go to college or college every day...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u149	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u150	...and make the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u151	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u152	Stand next to those girls. Stand next to those kids. That would please you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u153	I find it very annoying that so incredibly selective is being listened to. Like we're talking about color, ethnicity, or I know what! Now listen to that laughter in the room and look at Mr Grashoff shake his head! We have always said that this is not our concern. It's about sharing our values. Share our values and integrate! I have already mentioned other groups, such as the Cape Verdeans, the Surinamese and the Indian Dutch. Come on! It's not about color! You are accusing me of racism, which is completely out of the question. I have a very big problem with Islam. I have a very big problem with a religion, an ideology in our opinion, which ultimately seeks to introduce Sharia. I have a very big problem with that. If you are not sufficiently aware of this, I would like to provide you with a list of literature. We discussed the book of Machteld Zee in the emancipation debate. She also came from a very different direction, but that changed through study and by traveling to England where she visited Sharia courts. They don't fit here! They just don't fit here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u154	Clear. Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u155	If Sharia does not fit here, Islam does not fit here, and that certainly also applies to Islamic education. That's my opinion. You can come up with all kinds of stories, but it's not about ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr. Beertema...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u157	Yeah, but I'm being accused of some really weird shit here, so I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u158	I want to interrupt on another subject. When it comes to budgetary treatment, it is customary for you to bring in your own ideas as well. You can do that through a counter-budget, but I haven't seen it from the PVV. The best alternative this year is to look at the election programme. I was hopeful about this, because in this case the election programme also says something about the coming year 2017. But also in that program I didn't actually find any ideas, until suddenly I saw one on that A4's, namely no more money for innovation. That's the only thing that still affects education a little bit. There is a turnaround of 10 billion at that point. So 10 billion in savings is being made. What does that mean for education in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u159	This means that all innovation projects should be stopped as far as we are concerned, because they are based on the assumption that you should fight against it, and that the government is able to steer innovation. The government can't do that at all. Just as the government cannot create jobs, it can steer science or very smart inventions in a certain direction. They're created in a very different way. It just doesn't work to pump in an endless amount of money. This money goes on all kinds of drivers and managers. There will be a whole dome of innovators and companies and they will all have to be controlled again and so on. That's not gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u160	A brief conclusion: Mr Beertema therefore thinks that the Netherlands will be better off if we cut 10 billion on such matters as the top sectors policy, something the PVV signed with during the previous period, or the policy to stimulate R&D projects of small businesses through the Wbso.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u161	Well, I haven't really heard so far that the prosperity in the Netherlands has been greatly driven by the top sectors policy. We do not have a counter-budget. I can say that there is absolutely no need for more money from us to go to education. It has to be deployed differently. Again, with the SP, I look at that incredibly busy educational province. In it you have all kinds of domes and organizations that cost a lot of money. They can all be lifted. We have a lot of money to spend on that. Then the education lean-and-mean can be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u162	Mr. Chairman. D66 was founded on 14 October 1966. That was 50 years ago. Our first election programme already stated that one's background "should not be an obstacle to receiving the education he needs." Providing opportunities and discovering talents should not depend on fate. Last weekend we celebrated our anniversary congress. As an educational party, we look back on 50 years of education policy. The director of the Education Museum, by the way a very nice museum, kept a story there. He even went much further back in time, to more than 200 years ago, when there was mainly one-on-one education. That sounds nice, one-on-one, because smaller you don't get the classes, but that education was only for a small group of children from the very good class. This changed with the introduction of the Law on compulsory education in 1900. By the way, that law made a difference at the time with only one voice, because someone fell off his horse. You'll see it all the time! With the Law on compulsory education, education became accessible to all. Article 23 ensured that special education was also financed, thereby strengthening the quality of this education. The Mammoet Act, with all its advantages and disadvantages, improved the flow. Much has changed, but we are far from there. Opportunities are still not the same for everyone. It still matters where your crib stood. It is our expensive duty to continue to take steps to give equal opportunities to every child in the Netherlands. There is a right to education for everyone. That sounds simple, but thousands of homeowners are still waiting for a suitable educational spot. People who have had to leave home and fireplace to escape bombs and war are taken away by this cabinet. Taalles from day one are denied to them. Schools may still refuse children on the basis of their philosophical basis. That's gotta stop. There has already been a wide-ranging debate on it this morning. I would like to have that again with Mr Bishop and others, but it seems that this is not going to happen. I am glad that the cabinet is now paying attention to equal opportunities, but, so I ask, why so little now and why so little? It's literally a drop on a glowing plate. How am I supposed to consider that this cabinet says on the one hand to fight for equal opportunities, but on the other hand to cut down on educational deficits, cut down on schools, make performance agreements that discourage the offering of opportunities and do nothing about the cascade cost, a brake on flow in the MBO? It is a cabinet that introduces a faulty calculation test, on which children beach and that students and children are stuck in the wheels of appropriate education and leave to their fate. I would like a response from the rulers to this contradiction. Fortunately, things have gone well over the past four years. An additional 500 million has been added for primary and secondary education and for MBO. That was agreed in the autumn agreement. An investment of one billion in the quality of higher education has been made. The 1040 hour standard, that horrible thing, went off the table. There was an investigation into the legal anchoring of the law of learning. How's that going? Participation was strengthened, inter alia by the right of approval of students and teachers on the main lines of the budget in higher education and the MBO. Now po and vo, I'd say. We are going to work on more room for teachers by reducing the number of teaching hours per lecturer. I am glad that these things have come and are being worked on. None of this would have worked if that 50-year-old party, D66, hadn't pulled that off. Now, for once this year, we are not involved in the budget, and immediately, we are making cuts in schools. That's pretty salient, isn't it? Fortunately, we could partly reverse the austerity in the General Political Reviews. Of course, I'm not completely neutral, but you can see that education needs more D66. I've determined we're not here yet. We still need a solid agenda to provide equal opportunities, to improve our education and research and to give teachers time to improve themselves and their education, to provide tailor-made solutions and opportunities for children. We need more than the 25 million euros, that drop, of this cabinet. No returns on children and preschoolers, prosthetic figures in the information leaflets or political prestige projects should be central. No, providing opportunities for children must be central. Thanks to technological developments, one-to-one education from 200 years ago is becoming more and more accessible to large groups of children. ICT in education offers incredibly many opportunities, but fast internet, good digital learning tools and a teacher who can handle them is either essential or essential. Can the Secretary of State indicate what steps he is taking in this area? Because it doesn't seem to be going very well. Digital skills and coding in primary education is preparing students for the future. Convenient and necessary for all students, whether they want to become auto mechanic app developer or mathematics teacher. The Secretary of State seems to want to wait until 2032 with the introduction of this. Or am I wrong and he's in a hurry? Cultural education is also important. We could start early. I ask the Cabinet to investigate whether a CJP, a Cultural Youth Passport, is possible in the upper secondary education system. Teachers play a crucial role in equal opportunities. For many people, teachers have played a major role, by discovering talent, by paying attention, by supporting and stimulating or by being strict. That too, as I say to Mr Beertema, must be done. Good education stands or falls with good teachers, but teachers need to have the time and space to be able to give them attention. That means two things. First of all, I am pleased that six months ago my motion was adopted to reduce teachers' teaching duties. But it remains silent on the side of the cabinet. Yesterday afternoon we finally received a letter, in which the Secretary of State announces scenarios and reconnaissances. But that doesn't give teachers a second time. What else will the Secretary of State do in the near future? Where the cabinet makes no less than 3 million available for this purpose, D66 wants to release 1 billion to give teachers more time. For example, teachers have more time for the learner, there is more time for training, coaching and training and the workload is reduced. This is better for the teacher and therefore for the pupil and for education, and for equal opportunities. In addition, D66 wants to put an end to puff classes, such as that class with 33 students in Haarlem-Noord or groups 7 and 8 in Helmond, with 38 students, the group 6 in The Hague with 33 children. It's just a few examples. Together with the SP we fight against these overcrowded classes. Because how can you still offer tailor-made work with so many children in the classroom as a teacher? Another current and very acute problem is the elaboration of the Work and Security Act for Insured Persons. On our initiative, we recently had a round table on this subject. More and more often, no one stands in front of the classroom when the teacher or master is ill, because there is no longer any force of invader available under the Law, a law that in practice puts enormous obstacles in the way. We need to find a solution to this, and we need to do it quickly. What can we expect from the Secretary of State? D66, it is well known, believes that we should invest more in education, in teachers, in equal opportunities, in small classes, in catching up and in preventing them in vocational education in the MBO. D66 also considers it important that we handle the use of these funds transparently. There, too, there is still a world to be won in this cabinet, with estimates that are not real estimates, press releases that welcome investment, but which, oddly enough, do not include anything about the much larger cuts in terms of the exchange rate problem. That is not neat and not transparent. It nourishes the distrust of the field of education. Why not the honest story, Minister? D66 wants all investments to be targeted and transparently accounted for. Yes, in some cases this calls for an earing and, in all cases, for the right of assent of participation and accountability in the annual report. Does the Minister share this? The budget contains subsidies that are not legally compulsory, while there are some wonderful initiatives that threaten to stop or cannot get off the ground, because they are no longer receiving subsidies, such as the Modal European Parliament, where thousands of pupils go into Europe and live in other countries and cultures. It would be a shame if this disappeared. What can the Secretary of State do for them? Is there any room in that pot of subsidies? The technical vmbo is getting in a lot of trouble, because there is not enough money to finance the expensive teaching materials. That is when we will only need more technical staff in the future. Does this have the attention of the Secretary of State? Doesn't he leave the technical vmbo in the cold? We must also place the opportunities for students at the heart of the ho. A number of technical studies are at risk of stopping students. That's unacceptable for D66. It is bad for students' opportunities and opportunities to develop their technical talents, and it is also bad for the Netherlands and our economy. In short, a solution must be found for this. The number of students increases, but the budget doesn't. I am glad that CDA and VVD also want to solve this problem, but let's not just look at shifting money, but also at investing more. Is the Minister prepared to look at this in spring paper? I am also concerned about students with disabilities. Under the Participation Act, D66 made 35 million available for a study scheme for these students. These students can also use assistance from the profiling fund. Still, they're having a hard time. For example, we see quite a few differences between municipalities, which almost depends on fate if someone can study. A solution must be found for this. Differences of €381 in Amsterdam and €29.75 in Haarlem, Mr Rog, should not be possible. What is the Minister going to do about this? We should also give students the opportunity to do a second study. That way they can make the most of themselves. That's why D66 wants a second study to cost as much as a first study. We also need to invest more in research. Last week, my colleague Kees Verhoeven launched D66's plan to invest 1 billion in research and innovation. Much of it goes on basic research. In this way, we reduce the pressure to write research proposals and invest in the next Nobel Prize. We cannot, as the VVD does, cut back on research and innovation and hope that the Nobel Prizes will come on their own. In Zeeland is an initiative for a University College Engineering and Innovation, called Beta College. Does the Minister know about this initiative and how does it feel about it? I would also like to ask the Minister whether she would like to make it possible for students and former students under the old loan conditions to opt for the new social conditions of the study advance. For example, they can easily buy a house and pay back their investment more easily. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally, the scientific nodes. This is an initiative to promote cooperation between schools and science. Utrecht professors are teaching at primary schools on Kanaleneiland, beautiful! They also help teachers with teaching materials and practical examples for exciting, inspiring and educational lessons and activities within the framework of science and technology. Is the Minister prepared to continue supporting this initiative? If not, I will table an amendment to that effect. I have one more question which concerns the issue of the application procedures in education. The Secretary of State states that according to the law, you must be able to apply to more than one school. That is understandable in itself, but my question to him is also in the process of preparing a number of written questions, but I would like to see this question answered clearly. This duty of care is a duty for schools that start immediately after the notification. I am very curious to hear the answer to that question. I'm rounding up. Let us not leave it to fate whether or not people get opportunities. Let's give everyone, every child in the Netherlands optimal opportunities. Let kindergarten children, let students study and let students study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u163	Mr Grashoff for a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u164	I'll even do that with some hesitation. Mr Van Meenen has a story about education. That is what we can expect from D66. But it is getting a little too grim for me, I should like to say in the direction of Mr Van Meenen, when he puts D66 here as the party and, more or less, the only party responsible for education. In the meantime, that's starting to bother me a little bit. I have seen motions from my side, from Mr Rog, coming from Mr Mohandis over the past few years. I see initiatives from the SP side. I also see initiatives from the D66 side. I think we can see that on a number of aspects, for example in terms of access to education and the financing of education, there is a fairly broad front in this Chamber that has very high levels of education. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Meenen kindly, but also urgently, to share the honour a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u165	I'll give you all the credit you want. As you know, D66 certainly does not have a majority in this Chamber until 15 March and possibly not until 15 March. That means we've never done everything we do here alone. I'll admit it 100%. But it's about what you really put as a party on number one. That is for our education and that will be another point for GroenLinks. I see that's not true, that's fine. I don't care. But we stand for very good education and fight for everyone who thinks otherwise. And we consider everyone who stands by us and makes good proposals as our great friend. I told you today, especially in the light of our 50-year congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u166	Before I give the floor to Mr Bruins, I would like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u167	I give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Next year is a special year. After a school struggle that continued since the French Revolution, public education and special education were brought together in 1917. During the French Revolution, the idea of so-called neutral state education was born and individuals who wanted to establish a special school were for a long time opposed. Thanks to the great Dutch liberal Thorbecke, freedom of education came in the Netherlands: free education and free choice of school. Thorbecke incorporated this principle in his new Constitution of 1848. But it took until 1917 for public schools and special schools to be funded by the government in the same way. It is therefore 100 years from next year that the free choice of schools and the free education system really became a reality in the financial sense. The year of pacification, 100 years of freedom. What a party that will be in the Ministry of Education! At the same time, we see parties that are less happy with that anniversary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u169	I would like to thank Mr Bruins for his interesting opening. He first mentioned Thorbecke, but then he called Cort van der Linden. So my conclusion is correct that we actually have two liberals who have laid the foundations for our great education system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u170	I give this conclusion to Mr Duisenberg. Liberals from the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were real liberals. I will leave it at that, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u171	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u172	At the same time, we see parties who are less happy with the anniversary and who say that Article 23 is no longer of today, or that special religious education encourages segregation. We'll reach out to those parties. To them we say: apart from our ideological feathers that are so different, look at how it really works in practice. In confessional schools there are comparatively as many children with a migrant background as in public schools. In particular schools, on average, more attention is paid to sexual diversity than in public schools. 82% of parents are satisfied to be very satisfied with the free choice of school and the options they have nearby. At the 4,000 special primary schools in our country, two thirds of our primary schools, men and women work with heart and soul to give our children a future. Identity, faith, respect and connection are central to this every day. 2017 is the centenary of pacification, real educational freedom in all its aspects. The Christian Union is going to celebrate this. The question is whether the Minister and the Secretary of State are in on it. What activities can we look forward to from the Ministry of Education to highlight this festival of education? I know there's gonna be a symposium and an exhibition, but how is the ministry really gonna give this anniversary a festive touch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u173	If I get an invitation, I'd like to come to that party, Mr. Bruins' party. A party at the Ministry? Who knows, I'm waiting for the Minister's answer. Pacific? Yes, deployed by the Free Democratic Union, the predecessor of D66; let us not forget that. There's only one point that bothers me. My stink in this story is the lack of acceptance obligation. Once, 100 years ago, the schools were still the parents'. It's not like that anymore. The schools are now of professional directors. That right as a parent to decide where your child went to school or even to set up a school is alienated to school boards. Parents don't have that right anymore. My point is, we have to get back to that. Parents should be leading the choice of school again and not school boards. They shouldn't have the opportunity to deny that parents. I wonder how Mr Bruins looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u174	D66 and the Christian Union find each other here for one hundred percent. We also believe that schools belong to parents. In our ideal image there is parental involvement and parents are also on the boards. The schools belong to parents and teachers, and the parents and pupils form the values communities that are schools in society as we imagine them to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u175	That's good, but it's not like that, of course. Let's say 99.9% of schools in the Netherlands are simply run by a foundation board. Maybe there's another lost parent on the supervisory board, but they're just professional drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u176	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u177	The same question again: how does Mr Bruins look at the obligation to accept, in other words the right of parents to decide which school their child goes to, rather than the right of the board to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u178	Again, in our ideal image, the parents are on the board. I know a director of such a school is watching with us in this room. It's a beautiful school in the east of the country. In the light of the acceptance obligation, 98% of schools in the Netherlands have an open admission policy. We have a huge freedom of choice and a huge diversity of schools in the Netherlands. This diversity and freedom of choice means that as parents, Article 23 and the freedom of education allow you to choose which school you want to have your child at, one that fits well with the child, the education and the equipment you give. Research also shows that 82% of parents are satisfied with their choice of school in the vicinity of their home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u179	That's fine, of course. It is nice that so many people are satisfied, but we are making rules here for the situation in which things are not going well, as at Hoornbeeck College. There is not much to choose on that MBO and a student is simply refused on this ground. How does Mr Bruins view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u180	Neither does there exist neutral education and a neutral government, as I have just argued, there is a neutral policy. The words we choose here are very important. Indeed, 1% or 2% of schools in the Netherlands apply a strict admission policy, as it is called. I've heard several times today "they're just walking to refuse students," but it doesn't mean that. It means that these schools ask parents and students to endorse the basis of the school when they come to school. That sounds very different. It is a school which has a very strong identity and which is also guarded. And yes, I am also standing in front of that small group of schools in the Netherlands that are still doing so, as may be expected from the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u181	I would like to continue on the example of the Hoornbeeck College. I would like to refer the following passage from the admission criteria of Hoornbeeck College to Mr Bruins. I quote: "Until the Hoornbeeck College, the children of parents/carers who are confessing and ecclesiastical members of one of the following church associations are admitted under the following conditions: Reformed Churches, Reformed Reformed Church, Reformed Municipalities (PKN)..."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u182	How long is that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u183	I'll be right through. They also mention: the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands, the Old Reformed Churches in the Netherlands and the Christian Reformed Churches. The Christian Union is no longer as superprotesses as it once was. I believe the Pope in her constituency is being held in hand. In it it is clear that students are not only refused on the basis of the criterion of faith, so that goes far beyond the basis; this is done on the basis of the faith of themselves and their parents, but also on the basis of the criterion of compassionate membership, read: that they sit neatly in the church on Sunday. Does Mr Bruins agree that this is no longer 2016 and that we should put an end to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u184	I can make it very personal: this will not be my school. I read that from those statutes. I do not belong to such a church and so I do not send my children there; that is my right. My kids wouldn't fit there either. However, I believe that it is a good thing that a school in our country has the right to choose an identity on the basis of certain statutes. Again, that does not mean that "there are people refused." We should not stress that. This is how these schools guarantee their identity. There is one other point I am concerned about: in the Netherlands you have to monitor your identity very closely, both when it comes to personnel policy and admission policy, if you still want to claim this type of identity criteria at all. I think it would be a good idea if we were more relaxed in dealing with it, so that such a school also has the freedom to say: you know, you may not be at one of those churches, but you are welcome to join us. I would agree with that, but at the same time such a school would be in trouble, because according to the Human Rights College it would no longer be allowed to impose those criteria which the school would like to impose in order to preserve its identity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u185	Now I really find Mr Bruins contradictory in his own story. First, he indicates that the vast majority of schools do not handle it so tightly. But these schools exist; they are not therefore deprived of their funding by the Ministry. Apparently, there are schools that fill it out this way. We are wondering whether this can be done at all under the current legislation, but as long as this discussion continues, perhaps we should just close the leak properly. I note that this is a school which is a publicly funded institution which demands the beliefs, including the compassionate membership of a certain church society, and which limits admission to a group which I say with all due respect; I myself come from a Protestant-Christian angle not more than 10% of the Dutch population. I don't think this is the time. It is precisely in order to save what is right about Article 23 of the Treaty that all kinds of things are right about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u186	Briefly, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u187	Is Mr Bruins prepared to hang out with me in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u188	A brief reaction. This really is a repetition of previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u189	Let me repeat briefly what I said. We too stand for these schools, but at the same time we see that 98% of schools in the Netherlands have an open admission policy and that parents really have a free choice to choose the school that suits them. This school also fits a part of the Dutch population. That is a small part, but fortunately there is a big choice and you can choose which school you want. If you want to go to this school, you can also see how that identity is shaped at school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u190	Does Mr Bruins agree with me that the right to establish a school in this way, provided that it meets legal requirements, is simply a direct result of Article 23 of the Constitution, whether or not you agree with the frameworks chosen by a school? This is one of the results of the struggle for equality, which ultimately lasted about 80 years and was settled in 1917. Does Mr Bruins agree with me that it does not matter that you happen to think that this is no longer of this time? That is, of course, not an argument, because this is simply a constitutionally enshrined fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u191	According to Article 23 of our Constitution, everyone is free to start a school, regardless of direction, belief and belief. That is a great right in our country and we like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u192	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u193	Very briefly, I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u194	Equal treatment and equal pay are fine, but also equal duties. There is a difference, because the other schools, the public schools, are obliged to admit everyone and special education is not required to do so. Most schools handle that well, but some schools don't. Shouldn't we just level that out? What could be the argument from the Constitution to make a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u195	This goes ideologically deep, but if I take all the flesh off the bones, I come to the idea that public education would then be neutral education. In the view of the Christian Union, a public school is actually also a direction. Also there are teachers with a certain belief in life who share a certain vision of life and who are a role model for the students at that school. As far as we are concerned, public education is one of the directions we have in education. There is no such thing as neutral education, as there is no such thing as a neutral government. Public schools are fantastic schools, where there is also a certain belief in life. Other school establishments can also indicate from their statutes what type of school they want to be and what vision they want to work from, for example jenaplan schools or montessori schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u196	The answers must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u197	There are also public monessori schools. Everyone has that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u198	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u199	Yeah, but those schools don't have the right to take that right, at least they don't have the right to refuse pupils. That's the point: the philosophy of "public," "jennaplan," and call it all but on "really" never leads to the conclusion that a student is not welcome if he has another conviction. That's the point. The Christian Union should choose to say that the right to choice of school, the freedom of education originally invested in parents for starting a school, belongs to parents. Parents decide which school the students go to, not those school boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u200	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u201	If Mr Van Meenen puts it that way, I wholeheartedly agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u202	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u203	It also stems from Article 23, which states that education is a matter of constant concern to the government. Mr Van Meenen asked me about the party. We are making a start and Mr Van Meenen is warmly invited. Today the ChristenUnion launches the action #myschoolisspecial and the website www.myschoolisspecial.nl. We collect special stories from special schools through this website and through social media. Girls, masters, school leaders, students and parents can tell us in a sentence or in a short story why their school is special. All those stories we're gonna put together and publish next year. I come to my second point. Companies are experiencing a growing shortage of professionals, technicians. I would therefore like to offer an action plan to the Minister and the Secretary of State. The plan is called The Golden Hands of the Netherlands, Action Plan technical and specialist craftsmanship. It is currently distributed to the Minister, the Secretary of State and to colleagues in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u204	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u205	I would like to mention four points of action in the plan. The first is the funding of VMBO technology. A quarter of the VMBO students cannot take a technical VMBO course within cycling distance. How am I supposed to reconcile that with the great shortage of professionals? Earlier, I addressed the Secretary of State about the financial bottlenecks. A student taking a technical course is twice as expensive as a student undergoing administrative training. The introduction of the broad profiles has put the technology vmbo's in trouble. I have therefore tabled an amendment for a VMBO Technology Fund to remove the acute bottlenecks. There's also an image problem. I would like to agree with colleagues that from now on we will no longer be talking about lower and higher educated people. Is it not an idea to set an example in politics and to speak from now on about theoretical and practical trained people? So we don't talk low and high anymore, we don't judge value. Another point in the Action Plan is a better image of practical education and vocational training. That's what we have to start at elementary school. I am surprised that the assessment of schools by the inspection is still based on the average Cito score in group eight. Students with outflow advice to vmbo score below the national average. Elementary school failed if it doesn't deliver havist or vwo'er. The system of apprenticeship weights is not sufficient to correct this. It is a great misconception of those golden hands of the Netherlands and of the efforts of primary schools to extract every talent from students. The Christian Union calls on the Secretary of State to recognise practical skills and not punish schools if they are below the national average. The inspection could be more context-oriented. Does a school make the most of the students? Do you think there might be more care students at school? Are there perhaps smaller classes where one practical student has a major influence on the Cito score results? That kind of context is important. The third point concerns learning rights and training grants. In our election programme and in my action plan, the Christian Union is calling for a training grant for workers who have taken vocational training. The long-term vision is that everyone has the same right to funded education for many years. When I launched this plan in the spring during an AO, broad support was already expressed by other parties. The motion I had tabled together with Mrs Straus on this subject was put on the table at the request of the Minister, because she had something in preparation. Indeed, we now see that the Education Council, VNO-NCW and the ESC advocate such a system. Workers can use this to keep their knowledge up to date. In addition, the position of people with vocational training is aligned with those with theoretical training. I would like to put my motion to the vote after this debate and ask the Minister what first steps she can take on the road to this final picture. We already see vouchers in the HBO and a committee reporting on demand management in the MBO. Can we establish as a goal that everyone during their working life is entitled to funded education up to, say, the Associate Degree? I come to the fourth point in the action plan. The strange thing is that in higher or theoretical education there are negative incentives for late bloomers and stackers. Does the Minister agree with me that students entering vocational education, the stackers, should have sufficient opportunities? Is it prepared to consult with institutions to not punish stackers, but to support them? I come to my third and final point. Already in the introduction of the loan system, the Christian Union has called for attention to be paid to a specific group: students with disabilities or chronic illness. Mr Rog has already mentioned this in detail. They have really deteriorated on it. This is reflected in the figures: the inflow, the outflow from higher education and the higher financial thresholds. This is reflected in figures from the Minister's own monitoring policy measures. The sum added is even greater due to the large differences in support per municipality and per institution. Does the Minister agree that extra information alone is not enough, because this group of students has an unequal chance of higher education? Maybe I shouldn't say higher education, but theoretical education. If the Minister agrees with me, will she meet these students with a higher remission for the extra year of study?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u206	Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget discussion for this Minister and Secretary of State. It is a rather lively debate, in which everything plays. There's still a bit of fun in it, but it's not just shooting at each other from trenches. The treatment has a number of cross-links throughout the Chamber. That makes the debate on the education budget a little more interesting in my opinion than some other debates, so I like to fall into it. In recent years, worrying reports have been published which show that the government is unable to set up the education system in such a way that it is equally beneficial for everyone. The education inspection is very critical: children of the same level do not have equal opportunities. The same talents, but different outcomes: that has been raised by several people today. This inequality of opportunity is not new, but is the outcome of years of policy. In fact, we have been directed towards making our education system more efficient by successive cabinets and administrators, including this Liberal Secretary of State. The sooner through education, the better. At the same time, the system has become less flexible. The creation of barriers, of flow barriers, together with all kinds of other things such as assessing and settling returns, increases the probability gap. You could say that the early selection by obstructing up and down flow becomes irreversible. Early selection continues to harden and the number of barriers increases. At some point, you can expect the kind of reports we've been getting lately. The understanding that we need to do something about that is growing. In the cabinet and a large part of the Chamber, I am happy to see that. Certainly from coalition party PvdA I see valuable proposals in her own initiative paper. Sometimes I know very well what's in there, I'll say, but maybe that's good, because then we'll work on a broader basis. I sometimes wonder if the Secretary of State really wants to run for this. Although we can still get a good deal of agreement in the debates, I see when it comes to action and actually going through things to change, often when it comes to moving forward or very soft law. Are the measures now being taken in the system sufficient? No, they haven't. Is the extra package of 25 million for combating inequality of opportunity sufficient? No, it certainly isn't. I am also pleased that this package is there, because it contains valuable things, but it does not solve the structural problem. It is not enough and it does not touch on the core of what will have to change in our education system. It was said that extra investment would be made in education. An additional 200 million is invested in education. But 230 million is also being cut off on the lump sum, so that schools get less funding. What's the deal now? Is there some kind of magic with numbers now? I would very much like to hear a clear response from the rulers. I would like to see the directors, at the same time, taking on board the way in which they will solve the problem that will arise if, in any case, there is a big line through the proposals on the monument deduction and the education deduction. At least I understood that. How is this going to solve the problem of an additional EUR 125 million on the education budget? I'd really like to hear that. We really need to look at the system. That's why GroenLinks has been arguing for a long time for all kinds of changes. An important part of this is, as we call it, the modern middle school. It is not the case that we want to set up a new kind of school, but it is a matter of summing up a number of principles which education should meet, so that there are opportunities for everyone. For my party, this means a combination of the following: ensuring broad bridge classes, really anchoring the flow right well without all sorts of still permanent obstacles and lowering the workload for teachers. There should also be more money for schools to provide additional guidance and support to those who need it. In doing so, we want to put an end to the growing private tutoring economy. We think that's very important, too. That is one of the concerns that I have not yet heard in the debate, but which at least lives enormously with our group. If you realize that in the meantime, compared to the size of the pack, ten years ago, the tenfold turnover in the economy of private tutoring and retraining, you have to conclude that something is really not going well. So that's going to be something common in education, when we know that that's only possible if you actually have the money for it. After all, it's an expensive joke to have your child educated. The consequences of this development may well be much greater than they are today. I would like to speak about promoting broad bridge classes. GroenLinks considers it a worrying development that the number of broad bridge classes is decreasing by at least two levels. We've reported that before. There has been an increase in category bridge classes and there has been an increase in single opinions. So there's a relationship between them. My group believes that every child has the right to a place in a broad junior grade. That doesn't mean that we necessarily think that every junior class should be wide everywhere, because we want to leave room for category gymnasia or vmbo-schools, but a broad junior class should become the norm. If you're gonna get that done, you're gonna have to do something for it. Then you shouldn't just send a letter and say, "I'll talk about it again." Then you really need to take action. One of the issues in the motion, which was adopted, is that it should be examined how this can be promoted financially. The Secretary of State has made it clear that he doesn't want to. Does he want to explain that here again? I disagree with him on this point. I think it is very important to give this broad secondary school a financial incentive in the right direction, even if it is only because, for example, it can be justified by an objection that is attached to it: that the teacher should take more levels into account and that the approach of such a broad secondary school therefore also requires more flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr Rog has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u208	My question was about the previous point: the homework institutes. Indeed, we can see that there is a huge increase. That can lead to inequality of opportunity. The students who have rich parents can go to those homework desks, get their tests and move on. If we have 20% fewer lessons in primary and secondary schools, what effect could that have on this inequality between pupils?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u209	That is a rather difficult question, because the direction of solution for primary education differs from that for secondary education. I think it would be wise to go to a little less hours in secondary school. Then there will be room for teachers to guide more. I also think that there should be a funding component that allows schools to hire additional formation or expand the formation where necessary to provide homework guidance and support. This must not be done through a private circuit, but the school, which should have this responsibility, must offer the student what he or she needs. There must therefore be a reduction in the workload of teachers, which can therefore give more attention to them, but there must also be an additional financial provision in order to be able to hire additional training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u210	That sounds great, but if there's less than five hours in secondary school, could it eventually be that Sem and Starre go to homework counseling for five hours and that Saïd and Sharol are screwed? Wouldn't the desired reduction in hours increase the odds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u211	As I said, Mr Rog's question is a difficult one. If you misread "it might be so," then the result is equal to what Mr Rog is describing. That is why, unfortunately, I could not give the shortest answer. It requires a great deal of care. It doesn't mean that it's said at less hours: figure it out. The available space should be properly filled in, allowing the school to take a broader responsibility instead of just ensuring that the teacher is in front of the class all those hours. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State wasn't planning on giving the broad middle class extra finances. I would like to explain this, because I do not think that is wise. My party is in favour of the right of transit. That's what we discussed with this Secretary of State. A motion has been passed asking for this right to be granted to students. The Secretary of State needs a lot of time to work on that. He was about to come back to it now, but in the meantime, we see a plan on equality of opportunity coming back. We see a weakened variant coming back that is subject to conditions. As far as our group is concerned, the only condition that is acceptable is to have proper pre-training within the education system. Vmbo-tl and vmbo-gl give access to the Havo. If there is a problem with the ability of students to reach that level, then that is another problem. We will have to do this in a different way, but we should not shove the problem off our plate by means of additional inflow requirements. Additional influx requirements are not a suitable solution, because this solution hinders children in their development. I want us to settle the debate on the right of transit. I welcome Mrs Vermue's input on this point. I want to hear very clearly from the Secretary of State that he's taking care of it now. Otherwise, I will, preferably with all the parties who feel the same way, present an initiative legislative proposal that firmly regulates the right of transit. The one-after-last but certainly not unimportant point is investing in teachers. We all believe that the quality of teachers is an important measure of the quality of student development opportunities. But if you're gonna work on it, you're gonna run into some crazy shit. In any case, we see that the remuneration of teachers in primary education is clearly different from the remuneration of teachers in secondary education. That's crazy, isn't it? I think we all think that primary school teachers are as valuable as secondary school teachers. When it comes to the development of the child, primary education is at least as important, if not even more important than secondary education. Yet in the reward it is reversed. That means that a lot of people who graduated from pabo do not even start primary school or leave primary school before they reach their 30th. That's not good; that really has to be different. When you look at what's going on, you come up with crazy things. It's gonna be very technical. It's about pay scales and the like. We have to note that the salary scales in primary education are somewhat lower than the salary scales in secondary education. That's crazy, but that's not even the biggest difference. The biggest difference lies in what is called "the third scale": scale LC. In primary education, no more than a few hundred teachers have been trained in LC. This scale is therefore not used at all in primary education. Why is that? It is one way or another that job descriptions and salaries standards are quite crazy at this point. If we want to give primary education a serious place, our group would argue that we should start here and say: we are going to ensure that there is also a very clear possibility in the LC scale and then also in the LD scale, so that we retain experience. This can be linked not only to training requirements but also to experience requirements, to training issues and to responsibilities. Let's do that. I would like to table an amendment which seeks to ensure that at least one experiment is carried out and that one school or a few schools are accompanied to deal with the job evaluation in a different way. Let us see if this can mean that we are moving towards better pay in primary education, while maintaining experience and expertise and strengthening experience and expertise. Mr. Chairman. I want to end up happy. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has made 15 million available to carry out the motion on my part calling for additional funding for asylum children in the second year. There's been quite a fight over that. It did not happen by itself, because the Chamber had to be required to ask this very clearly by way of a motion of censure. But anyway, it's settled now. There are adequate finances and I welcome that. That concludes my story, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u212	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by joining my colleague in the Christian Union's plea to commemorate 1917 in a dignified way. It's worth it. Reference has already been made to the National Museum of Education in Dordrecht, an extremely interesting museum, where you will see not only 1917 but also the impact of the enormous diversity of educational institutions and disciplines. This diversity is partly the result of the education pace. It becomes tangible there, even almost palpable. Then you suddenly understand the enormous social wealth it is for our country that we do not have state education but socially embedded education. We have education that breathes with society as it develops. I was also pleased with the enthusiastic support of the VVD on the resolution of the school struggle, the educational pace. I am pleased that two people have been mentioned here. The first is Thorbecke, who enshrined the freedom of education in the Constitution in 1848. Because there was then a failure to anchor the financial equivalency, the battle continued for a while. Under the leadership of Cort van der Linden, the educational pace was then brought to a successful conclusion. By the way, it is a slightly too generous claim to include Cort van der Linden as a liberal, because he was partyless. He did lead a liberal and liberal-democratic cabinet. I would also like to raise a warning, because there is another liberal who has played a major role in the education struggle. That was Kappeyne van de Coppello, who led a law on primary education by the Lower House in 1874. Because that law did not provide for the financing of Christian schools, he put Christian education in great difficulty. He was reminded of this and then his reaction was: well, that's just a minority. That minority had to be suppressed, because if they did not want to go, they would be the fly that spoils the whole ointment and would have no right of existence for that Christian minority in this society. That too is liberal language. No, that is not a liberal language but a liberal language! I see Mr Duisenberg pointing the finger, and those were indeed other liberals. I wouldn't want to identify with them either. Mr. Chairman. Having said this, I begin my speech. The government expects primary schools to use apprenticeship follow-up systems to monitor the development of pupils. For example, you can show with all kinds of colors how a student stands. It's called some kind of traffic light method. It would actually be useful if we also had one of those cabinet-tracking methods, in which we can see the state of education policy. However, it is also questionable whether such a system of red, orange and green would be sufficient. At the end of this cabinet period, the SGP asks itself the following questions. 1. What went and what goes well? 2. What existing problems remain and have not yet been resolved. 3. What non-existent problems has the cabinet put its teeth into? It will be clear that we can use the color green for the first category. So we're going to give you what's going well. The second category concerns the existing problems which have not yet been resolved. For this category we can use the colour orange or red. However, I was stuck with the third category, namely the non-existent problems in which the cabinet has put its teeth in. I couldn't find a tan for that in the "stop light model." Anyway, let's start with the question of what's going well. After all, I want to start with the good news. Let us be grateful to note that education during this cabinet period, during a serious crisis, has been largely spared. In fact, a lot of extra money has been invested in education on balance, despite all kinds of discussions that I can also put in place and which I would also like to know what the response is. I'm not referring to the money that was first knocked out of the pocket by the students, but to the real money, and that's not a little bit. These kind of remarks in between are just part of it. The way in which appropriate education is introduced is also worth complimenting. I know some people think I'm cursed in church right now, but I want to have said that out loud anyway. There's a mega operation going on. There is a huge change in the system for the support of pupils with an additional demand for care. There is still an incredible amount of work to be done and sometimes things really go wrong, but the way in which solutions are sought even in individual cases deserves to be followed up. I would like to express my full appreciation for the cabinet on this matter. The third point of appreciation is that, after some wild plans, the cabinet continues to recognise the right of smaller schools to exist. This is not only incredibly good news for parents, but also for society in a village, in which one cannot really go without school, because otherwise cohesion in such a village will be affected. At all these points, the traffic light clearly jumps on green. That is to say, keep up the good work! I'll be on the second category. What existing problems have not been solved? During this cabinet period, there has been a strong debate on testing in education. Although the nuance is often lost, the SGP is pleased that there has been a change in the policy of testing more and more. The final test was made compulsory at the beginning of this cabinet period, but after that a pass was made more or less on the spot. But the SGP still has some concerns in that regard. The legislative proposal to make the diagnostic mid-term test mandatory still exists. In fact, the cabinet already has the power to impose these tests without amending the law. The idea that this obligation will come sooner or later is fed up with this. You will also notice that some schools are actually already pre-sorting on that obligation, although they are not at all enthusiastic about it on their own. That is undesirable, and that is why the SGP, together with the CDA, has recently tabled a bill to underline and effectively protect the freedom of schools. We are, of course, waiting for further treatment, but it would be wonderful if this cabinet would send a clear signal of confidence in the schools. The next problem that has not yet been solved is the assessment of learning outcomes. The current system allows vulnerable students to be perceived as a threat to school scores. Of course, that is exactly what we do not want, and that is what the schools do. Honesty requires us to say that we are working with a correction model, which we have known for years that it is actually not right, because there are too few indicators and factors to consider. My colleague, Mr Dijkgraaf, has already presented a discussion paper on this issue in the 2010 budget, and it is still extremely topical. The proposal being developed does not yet reassure the SGP. We continue to work with an abstract model that cannot do justice to the concrete situations of schools, for example the extent of the care demand of pupils. Would the Secretary of State like to explore how more customization can be achieved in the assessment of school outcomes? An example is a well-founded deviation. That principle is being applied more often. The principle of governance is then: apply or explain. The SGP also calls for attention to be given to a bottleneck that can be resolved in the shorter term. Primary schools are not charged on a current, but on an outdated national average. I'm asking the Secretary of State to handle this. The question of home education has not yet been resolved either. For the sake of time, I shall confine myself to the question of the procedure for the proposed legislative proposal on home education. And what about home education organisations? One final point that has not yet been finalised is the debate on performance agreements. We will come back to that in more detail, but I would like to make the statement here that you cannot capture quality in a few figures. That's been on the table before. All kinds of unintended effects can also occur here. How does the Minister feel about this? At these points the image is actually on orange. It could turn green, but it could turn red. Finally, I will deal with the non-existent problems that the cabinet wants to solve. I am thinking here of the development of the teacher register, but I will not go into that further. Another point is important: the big renovation in the school landscape to give parents more freedom of choice. The school-founding system must go against the plains. With such plans it is wise to first ask the environment what it thinks is necessary. We have tabled a motion for this, but, contrary to the request made in the motion, the investigation, at least in what we have seen of it so far, did not check the actual satisfaction of the existing model, but the fictitious need based on abstract indicators. Fortunately, we now also have information from another research, from TNS NIPO, but by the use of drivers' organisations. The conclusion of all the studies so far is in any case that the problem is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u213	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u214	I'm gonna finish up. Other needs than denomination can also be neatly solved within the system. So what problem is this solved? In the meantime, the many concerns and risks associated with its elaboration do not outweigh the hoped and even limited President... eh, limited benefits. Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't dare characterize you like that! It's about the limited benefits. Here the image doesn't actually get color. It has become more like a snow screen and it threatens to run on a large, deep, black plane. I am curious to hear the response of the Secretary of State and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u215	Mr. Chairman. According to DENK, education must be a source of development for every Netherlands. Everyone, whatever their origins and how much money their parents earn, must feel supported by the fact that education in the Netherlands offers equal opportunities for everyone. But is it? For four years, the couple Bussemaker and Dekker are now the scepters of education. It is painful, but true: the division in education is huge and equal opportunities have never been so under pressure. Education must lead to the recognition of every unique talent in a child, regardless of who it is. Every child must be trained to contribute to society in the end, but in 2016, children increasingly receive lower school advice and increasingly end up at a lower level because their parents have lower education and/or a smaller wallet. Children perform less in education because their parents are born somewhere across our borders, while these children have enough talent and are intelligent enough to get more out of them. In order to tackle the dichotomy and inequality of opportunity in education, it is necessary to do something about the under-advisation of children with lower-educated parents and with a migrant background. Both the inspection and the OECD are calling for this. Teachers can be consciously or unconsciously biased. This is why awareness needs to be increased by increasing the expertise on under-advisation among teachers and by giving greater attention to this in teacher training. Work needs to be done on the number of opinions to be adjusted after a higher final test. That happens now in only one in five cases. There are school boards where, despite higher test results, no school advice is adjusted. Children who can handle a higher level should simply be able to enter at a higher level. Therefore, give children a right to participate at a higher level by automatically updating the advice if the test result is higher. We would like a response from the Minister. Instead of reducing it, more money should be allocated to the education deficit policy. Students from disadvantaged regions are becoming less and less frequent in higher education. The 5 million extra that this year goes to the municipal educational disadvantage policy is rather modest if the cabinet really wants to do something about fighting the division and the inequality of opportunity. In addition, 5 million will now be added, but in 2018 40 million will go down. Efforts should also be made to increase parental involvement in relatively disadvantaged families. Parents from disadvantaged families tend to be less able to stand up for their child. Therefore, strengthen the parent organisations within education and ensure that parents who need support, difficult to reach parents, find their way to these parent organisations. And above all: require schools to provide information on parents' rights and opportunities in school advice and other important matters that are essential for the future of a student. Together with the growing division, the loan system, which should actually have the name "debt system," is a deadly cocktail. Students don't want the debt system. 84% of students think that the debt system is just a bad thing. They call the debt system a privilege system, because they believe it reduces access to education. Fewer and fewer students live in rooms, because they are no longer able to pay for this because of the debt system. As a result, they sometimes cannot choose the study they would like to take and get less from student life. Students also do not want longer internships because they fear higher student debt. As a result, they gain less experience in practice and put pressure on the link between education and the labour market. Apart from the loan system and inequality of opportunity, many young people are also hampered by discrimination in the traineeship market. One in three Turkish-Dutch, one in four Moroccan-Dutch and more than one in five Surinam-Dutch students find it difficult to get an internship because of discrimination. This discrimination can no longer be denied. 30% of bbl-stage companies say they have more to trainees without a migrant background than trainees with a migrant background. Apart from discrimination on the internship market, it also appears that different sectors have to do with a shortage of traineeships, such as in nursing or craftsmanship. DENK finds it unacceptable that students are on the line due to discrimination or a shortage of internships. DENK therefore calls on this Minister. We know you don't like it. Mr Jadnansing had tabled a motion on it and it was adopted in the Chamber. You're wondering, "Would it still be possible?', But step over those procedural objections. Show some social-democratic guts. Give those students an internship guarantee. Make educational institutions legally responsible for students getting an internship place. Of course, they have to do this in consultation, consultation and cooperation with municipalities, learning companies and civil society organisations, but a training guarantee gives you more pressure. That's necessary, because that's not how a student sits at home anymore because it's impossible to find an internship. That way, no more student gets delayed. In this way, the parties assume their responsibilities and we solve a persistent problem. As far as we are concerned, equal opportunities in education apply not only to pupils. They also apply to parents who want to start a school. DENK stands for Article 23 of our Constitution. We stand for the freedom of education and the freedom of choice of parents to choose a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u216	That's extremely good to hear. I ask Mr Kuzu how he looks at Gülenschools. Can they be in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u217	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u218	That's good news, too. How does he look at the actions that there have been of groups of parents who have actively tried to influence other parents to take their child out of such a school?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u219	As I have just said, I think that Mr Van Meenen is also in favour of the fact that this is also about the freedom of choice of parents. It is well known that intimidation, threats and violence are being used, and we have repeatedly said that this is not allowed. Parents, however, have the right to choose which school they put their children at and which school they do not at. Let's leave that choice to the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u220	Does Mr Kuzu think that, in the situation of the Gülenschools, that right of parents to choose to keep their child in such a school has been compromised by the actions that have been taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u221	I think every parent makes a different choice and a different consideration. We must respect the choice of the individual parent in that. If a parent deliberately chooses to send his child to such a school, that's fine. If a parent chooses to send his children to a Catholic school or a Protestant school, that's all fine. That is Article 23 of our Constitution, that is the freedom of education as we know it in the Netherlands, and that is what we stand for. So we stand for the freedom of choice and the freedom of education of parents. Is special education still in good hands with this government and with some municipalities? We get many signals from people who want to set up an Islamic school that they are being obstructed. They feel that there is a municipal and national opposition to initiatives in the field of Islamic education in particular. The most appealing example is the Foundation for Islamic Education in Amsterdam, which has repeatedly spoken about obstacles that it experiences. The Secretary of State is aware of this. I would like to ask the Liberal in him whether he agrees that the law is right to protect citizens from the arbitrariness and power of the government. This is a rhetorical question, of course. Then why do the Secretary of State, the Ministry and the Municipality of Amsterdam continue to oppose these people, despite the fact that there are court rulings that are in favour of the people they oppose? Does Article 23 apply to everyone? Does the Secretary of State feel bound by the law? If so, stop the opposition. If not, just be honest about that. Just say it to his orwellian: all initiators of educational institutions are equal, but some are more equal than others. I'm closing up. Education is the lifeblood of our society. Make sure everyone has equal opportunities, support our teachers and make our schools learnable. Do it for our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u222	I would like to return to Mr Kuzu's speech on the obligation to adjust on the basis of the Cito test, as the second objective criterion in the case of under-advisation. My other point is internship guarantee. I am glad that he mentions two plans, one of which was introduced by the PvdA four years ago. That didn't have a majority, but I'm glad it connects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u223	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u224	Then there's the other point. We have presented a wonderful initiative paper as a group to promote equal opportunities. Can we also expect a wonderful initiative paper from DENK on promoting equal opportunities, Mr Kuzu? Then you should also mention that these are your plans, because we came earlier. You can't say later: these are the plans of DENK. Then I expect you to have very good ideas for promoting equal opportunities, and if we agree, we will be working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u225	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u226	Finally, in this term of office, I give the floor to Mr Van Klaveren, who speaks on behalf of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u227	Mr. Chairman. Education is the foundation of a prosperous future, crucial for the development of our country. Unfortunately, education is still often seen as a laboratory of outdated makeability ideals. In the past, when PvdA reforms were introduced mainly in the educational country, it is thought of the basic formation, the second phase and the study house, it is now a State Secretary of the VVD-huis who wants to reform. For example, in the final opinion of Platform Education2032, we read a report on the future of education, which aims to focus on social competences, cross-skills, ICT literacy and creativity. It looks like history is repeating itself. Old wine in new bags. They are practically the same so-called educational renewals that the Dijsselbloem Commission stated in 2008 that they do not benefit quality and lack serious scientific support. It is time for us to go back to the basics: knowledge transfer. The association Beter Onderwijs Nederland rightly pointed out that more than 10% of Dutch children leaving primary education are functionally illiterate. If these students then learn above all to work together and be creative in secondary school, the fundamental language problem will obviously not be solved. The application of skills is hollow rhetoric in that context, as long as the basic substance is not controlled. The same applies to math. In this way, it is now so miserable that the cabinet was forced to introduce a calculation test for secondary education. This problem continues. Even in colleges and universities, boarding tests are now required to determine whether prospective students have sufficient language and numeracy levels. Professor Anna Bosman of Radboud University states that the spelling is mostly hopeless. The Hague University of Applied Sciences notes that as many as 80% of freshmen do not have the desired starting level in the language test. Students are not helped with hollowed-out diplomas and teachers with superficial expertise. Plans by the PvdA to give powers to a cluster of subjects rather than first and second degree vocational competences are therefore silly and counterproductive. As far as VNL is concerned, the problem is addressed at its core. No more lap drugs. Well-trained teachers and putting true knowledge transfer at the centre. Raising significantly the level of language and arithmetic education. Make the course attractive again by increasing the salary and reducing the classes. No more experiments, no more thresholdless transitions between levels and towards a rigorous selection at the gates of colleges and universities. Is the Minister prepared to commit to this? I'd like a response. There seems to be no end to the number of plans and projects in the field of nonsensical educational innovations. It is precisely in the field where it is really time for sound renewal, Article 23, that virtually nothing is happening. That's weird. The system is a hundred years old next year and it is still fully aligned with the hidden situation of that time. However, the Netherlands has changed. The reality of progressive secularisation has overtaken the existing multi-religious model, which also pays for religious education by the state. The Netherlands has changed fundamentally. The pillar structure of the past is outdated and no longer a reflection of the religious organisation of the Dutch population. According to Dr. Bernts and Dr. Berghuis' research, 82% of the citizens never enter a church until almost never again. This is independent of whether this is desired or not. Almost 70% no longer belong to a ecclesiastical mindset. Spoken atheists now form a larger group than pronounced theists. The researchers even speak of marginalisation and a great Christianity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u228	I'm a little surprised at this sound. Of course, we've known each other a little longer. I know Mr Van Klaveren as an ardent supporter of Article 23 and the freedom of parents. He's suddenly saying that secularization has increased so much. Has this happened since he left us? Or did he just make a spin because his foreman, Mr. Roos, came out with these messages?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u229	No, little has changed, I have to say to Mr Bertema. I have always been in favour of religious education, but not paid by the Dutch state. Because there is little substantive discussion within the PVV, we may not have been able to exchange it in such a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u230	Does it perhaps also have to do with the fact that there is actually just a deep fear of Islamic education and that, in order to abolish it, you are putting all of Article 23 on the brink? 'Cause that's kind of what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u231	If Mr Beertema, whom I personally like, would like to wait a little longer? I will indeed come to Islamic education later. That is certainly a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u232	I understand that the Group Bontes/Van Klaveren likes to portray themselves as a classic-liberal group. I've read reports before that they're for state weed. I understand now that they are also for state education. Can Mr Van Klaveren explain that? What's in his mind that parents aren't allowed to decide for themselves which school they send their children to? Should the alderman or perhaps the minister, a Social Democrat, decide that? Please be careful, Mr Van Klaveren, that is going to be a total failure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u233	It would be nice if Mr Rog was more interested in classical liberalism. That can never hurt a Christian Democrat. Classic liberalism is for a small government, a small state. We do not want to be overused when it comes to, for example, the financing of matters that civil society itself can regulate. Mr Rog must appeal to that. The religious component of education can perfectly be arranged by people themselves. Children spend an average of 30 hours in school. The rest of the week one can do at home with religious education. That does not seem to me to be a task for the state. That's very classic-liberal. When it comes to the weed, for example, to which Mr Rog referred, I can say that there will be no state weed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u234	Still a comforting thought. Nevertheless, I am a little surprised at Mr Van Klaveren's speech. 82% of parents opt for non-public education. Apparently, in the eyes of Mr Van Klaveren, they are wrong. Because either they don't go to church anymore or they don't believe in anything anymore, but they do choose a Christian school. So that possibility must be taken away from them. That's a weird argument, isn't it? If Mr Van Klaveren wants to put the freedom, the right of parents first and also give them that freedom, then surely it cannot be that the whole education system should be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u235	It's not. The current system is a remnant of a period that started in 1917. That's why you have more religious or confessional schools than public schools. For the rest, I think people are perfectly capable of making their own choices when it comes to religious education. All we're saying is that this shouldn't be paid by the state. People can still form their children religiously. That can be done in a Christian way, a Hindu way, no matter how, just not paid with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u236	Parents who send their children to a Christian school should therefore only provide additional funding themselves, in Mr Van Klaveren's view, in order to achieve that? Parents who send their children to public school don't have that cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u237	All people simply receive general education. One plus one is two in Christian school, but also in public school. So that stays the same. The religious education can take place at home or in the church. That's what happened before 1917. That's just before the time your party came into being, but it really was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u238	That was precisely the reason why we were committed to the constitutional anchoring of financial equality between public and special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u239	That had to do with universal suffrage, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u240	That was precisely the commitment, because there was no financial equalisation. But parents who opt for public schools and want to do philosophical education, should they even pay for that themselves? In other words, you put an extra burden on all those parents. You're gonna cut back on education, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u241	It's not an extra burden at all. The church now also exists without funding from the Dutch state. So it's just gonna stay there. Only where religious education is taking place at school will that have to be done more intensively at home. That doesn't have to cost anymore, because telling a story doesn't cost money. For the rest, of course, you can do that in the church. If you look at it as a whole, you will see that we have a fantastic socio-economic story. The burden is falling hugely with us. We have a flat tax of 25%. People also have a lot more money left in the wallet. If people would like to start a religious institution with their own money, they should do so above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u242	There is no such thing as neutral education. That has been argued before. I hope we can agree on that. My problem is that if parents do not want to have their children formed religiously, they must make provision for that. Then you must also grant subsidies or not. Isn't it going to be a complete inedible bribe, that education of yours?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u243	No, it is getting very clear: we simply have one form of general education. Religious or philosophical formation can take place at home. As I mentioned earlier, this can apply to people with a Christian background, a Hindu background or whatever background. It's gonna be very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr Van Klaveren has general education. We're our children. That's not about 1+1=2. Of course 1+1=2 is fairly neutral...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u245	In any case, we agree with each other. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u246	... ifyou work in the cartesian system. But we're our children. That includes all aspects: citizenship, how you stand in society, what kind of person you are, who you are, how you deal with your feelings and with others. We're our children. That has everything to do with how you stand in life. That cannot be seen as just as neutral 1+1=2. Then Mr Van Klaveren doesn't have enough schools. He's failing teachers. He's failing teachers and parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u247	No, I absolutely don't. I myself have been a teacher and at the moment I am also the father of three very beautiful children. If I wanted to form that religious, I'd do it at home. I'll do it in church. I'll do it at a catechization club. This does not necessarily have to be done at school with subsidised funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mr Van Klaveren makes an artificial distinction between religious and non-religious. Forms are about philosophy. That's about who you are as a human being, how you look at people and society, and how you feel about life. That's all part of the formation. You can't separate that from other parts of education. We're our children. This is not about the transfer of information. This is about knowledge and wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u249	Yeah, but that's definitely about information. That is also knowledge, even in your view, I hope. Furthermore, I indicated that this can be done at home. That doesn't have to be with government funding or support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u250	I think that points are being repeated now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u251	In a country with a more Christian civilian population than the Netherlands, for example the United States, it is. So you can do that in the Netherlands. If Mr Bruins would like to do so, he should do so in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u252	I would like to make a final point, Mr President. From now on, thanks to Mr Van Klaveren, Christians are going to pay less tax, because we are not going to use his state education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u253	Paying less tax is always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u254	I would like to give Mr Van Klaveren a heartfelt voice, because at this point I recognize a lot and perhaps we can find each other. Van Klaveren is absolutely right that Article 23 and special education have nothing to do with classical liberal thinking. Ask Frits Bolkestein. He was also a fervent opponent of that weird system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u255	So you have no question of asking Mr Van Klaveren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u256	Here's the question, Mr. Chairman, pay attention! What I found so surprising is that today's news is that Van Klaveren said in a nutshell that he also contributed that to his previous party, the PVV, and that Mr Wilders said at that time: no, we are not going to talk about that, because we are not discussing it within the PVV. That's what I read in the Volkskrant last weekend. Is that why he is standing here as a separate group and we have the new VNL party here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u257	I am not going to elaborate on the issues that I have been specifically discussing with my former group chairman, but there was little internal discussion. That's no secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u258	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u259	It's about education, isn't it? Just a reminder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u260	I would just like to ask Mr Van Klaver whether he does not start scratching behind his ears a little when he gets the full and heartfelt support from the SP for his ideas for state education, with the vision given from a different angle that state education will then be determined by a socialist or social-democratic minister. Isn't he gonna scratch behind his ears?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u261	As long as the SP agrees with me on the basis of Frits Bolkestein's ideas, you cannot, of course, oppose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u262	Mr van Klaveren does not approve of making this kind of comment about the way he experienced it at the time. I don't recognize myself in that image at all. Mr Van Dijk wanted to say that if he manages to distill facts from a five-page Volkskrant article with a thieving junkie, he would not be pleased to draw any conclusions. That's what I wanted to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u263	Then you've made your point. I have also said that this debate is about the budget for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u264	Then I come to the second argument why it is a great good thing to stop spending taxpayers' money on religious education. This has to do with the consequences of the existing model, which allows for the construction of a new pillar on an Islamic basis. The further secularisation of society as a whole will not allow this pillar to stand alongside other pillars, but completely on its own. This is a foundation for a parallel society in which not the dominant western values but the Islamic values are central. As far as we are concerned, this is a very problematic development. The social question is therefore whether society should continue to subsidise a structure with religious columns, while the broad support for a religious population has now disappeared. I say this all the more so, and that is the third argument, because religious education, the essence of particularly religious education, is not a task of the government. It is therefore time for a system change, a strict separation between Church and State. A neutral position is assumed by the government in such a way that all beliefs can be present in society, but the State has no role in facilitating and therefore its financing. Confession of one's own claim of truth is of course open to everyone, but not within the government domain and certainly without interference from the State. Freedom of religion is absolutely not at stake here. This model has also been implemented in France, where it is known as the laicite. Religiously segregated educational institutions receiving subsidies will become a thing of the past. Islamic schools that are also ethnically completely segregated disappear. The riddle about prayer spaces at universities, for example, has been resolved, and subsidies are no longer provided for the specific training of ministers with a mental approach. There is no class anymore where boys and girls are divorced and the sexual preference of teachers will no longer be a matter for the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u265	I see Mr Van Meenen standing at the interrupting microphone. We must come to a conclusion because we have been discussing the OCW budget almost all day, while there are more debates on the list. This is due, among other things, to too long and extensive interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u266	I understand your concerns. I'll be brief. I also understand Mr Van Klaver's concerns, but there is still a contradiction. He says those kids go to school for 30 hours and the other 138 hours are home. Isn't the good thing about the system in the Netherlands that there can be special schools that are supervised by the government? After all, it is not a free education. In Islamic schools, too, we must pay attention to the values we know in the Netherlands, to our order and mention it all. If you don't do that anymore, I don't think the problem's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u267	This is the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u268	That supervision is, indeed, good and will continue to exist. I'm rounding up. Of course, everyone will be free to start a school on a religious basis, but without state subsidies. No vision is imposed by the government; it must be philosophically neutral. Next year it is exactly 100 years since the current system was introduced. Before that, the Netherlands, like the United States for example, did not have equal funding from public and religious schools. In this respect, let us return to the core and thus also move towards the future. I'd like to get a response from the Cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-7.u269	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow evening, the Minister and the Secretary of State will give the answers to the questions asked.
