ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. We're all tired sometimes. We probably also know that old song from "I don't feel like getting up..." And we all recognize ourselves in that, but if there is one profession that should not get tired, then they are pilots. A major study conducted by the London School of Economics, which is not the first to be the best school of economics among 7,000 pilots, shows that six out of ten pilots are occasionally tired in the cockpit. It then appears that this overfatigue is much more common among the pilots of prize fighters, of budget companies, namely three quarters of them. More than half of the pilots questioned do not say that their employer takes the problem of overfatigue seriously. Previously, research journalists from De Groene Amsterdammer have shown that there is a staggering picture of this issue at Ryanair in particular. Ryanair and other prize fighters use false self-employment by allowing pilots to do work for society from an example. As a pilot, you have a huge debt because of the expensive training. So you've already got one anyway. You'd have to buy yourself into a company like that to fly at all. After that you have the situation that you are paid per working hour and you are not paid by sickness; so if you wake up too tired and you say "I won't go," then you can just whistle at your salary. Besides, you can't join a union. So if you put that whole pile together, I'm really wondering where this is going. Ryanair's most expensive seat is the pilot's seat and that's the only person on that plane who shouldn't be tired. My question to the Secretary of State is: how is she going to stop this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is true that during the period January-March of this year the London School of Economics conducted a study into pilots' perception of the safety culture. I would like to begin by saying that 'European aviation is an ultra-safe sector with a very impressive safety record'. This is a fact that I would like to have said here. By the way, I am going to go into what that experience of pilots then requires of us. It is true that certain groups of pilots have a negative perception of the safety culture and it is also true, as Mr Smaling says, that there seems to be a relationship with pilots, for example, who have a zero-hour contract or who have to do with other constructions such as pay to fly. What do I think? First of all, I think it's okay that there's an investigation like this. This subject has been going on for a long time. Nor is it for nothing that in the second half of this year, since the summer, if I am right, new rules have entered into force which have tightened things up on this subject, preventing pilots from being too tired. So that actually happened, but it did after the outcome of this investigation. So that has not yet been included in the investigation itself. In addition to our strict enforcement through, for example, our ILT, I think it is good that we keep this issue alive on the European agenda at the same time. Because, yes, the rules have been tightened up and there will also be research into whether that works properly. I also think that this study of the London School of Economics needs to be put on this European agenda to see if we can do more than all the actions that have taken place since summer, up to and including courses around this whole issue at management level towards pilots. I agree with Mr Smaling that this is important. It is not only about the reality of flying............................................................................................................................................................................................ We just need to have a good eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	An attempt to hide behind European laws and regulations is always lurking. That's what's going on here. There are, of course, European rules for working and rest periods, but these are generally seen by normal airlines as an absolute upper limit, which you should not go near. However, companies such as Ryanair see it as the standard and go up to the level of European rules. I don't think you should want that. I call on the Secretary of State to look at this country. Ryanair has a base in Eindhoven. It's just a national issue. I would say: send both the Inspection Environment and Transport as well as the Labour Inspectorate, or the Inspection SZW, to this; fall in there and make sure that this cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	I agree with the latter. It happens all the time. There are audits in which, so to speak, unsolicited pilot logs are added to check whether people comply with the rules. We have to do that, because it is a national issue; Mr Smaling is right about that. However, it is also a European issue, because we have rightly agreed stricter rules within Europe on working time and rest periods for pilots. I would like to use this research in hand to see if it has worked better. Then we can also do what Mr Smaling is now asking, namely to discuss the relationship that there is or is not with pay-to-fly constructions or zero-hour contracts. People are sometimes insecure because they don't have a permanent contract. Apparently, that affects their sense of security. That's not a question of hiding, it's a question of setting up. Mr Smaling asks me to do so and I do so. Furthermore, the standards are justified and realistic. We did not agree to some sort of absolute upper limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	That you can call flying safe, I agree. It would be awesome if there was an accident every week. However, safety is at odds with working conditions. That's what I'm really worried about. We can wait for the lawsuit brought against Ryanair in Belgium, but Germany, for example, takes matters into its own hands. That country has balls and simply invades Ryanair and thus obtains information about the operating conditions of the pilots. I want the Secretary of State to do the same, because she's really the type to deal with it right now. That is my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	Once again, we are working well together, including with Germany, on precisely these kinds of issues. The Netherlands has indeed joined as a country in a Belgian case against Ryanair, because we want to support that process, because we want to defend the rights of workers in the aviation sector and because we want to limit improper constructions. So that's what we're doing. At the same time, the relationship, if any, between flex contracts or zero-hour contracts and pilots' sense of safety should be considered. That must be done on the basis of facts. That is what we need the European institution EASA (European Air Safety Agency) for, because it is about that. Mr Smaling may ask for an activist attitude from me there too; he gets one too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	We talk about this all the time. Mr Smaling raises a very important point. I have a question for the Secretary of State. Is it not possible to deny landing rights, especially to the well-known budget companies? Is it possible to do something about this through the landing rights we grant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	Again, aviation safety is really good. This is evident from the research we are discussing. So, first of all, we need to establish that. So you don't just have a title to take away a airline's landing rights. If safety is not right, airlines will be blacklisted, for example, if they come from outside Europe. Then you can deprive them of their rights. You're gonna have to go fuck yourself. But that's not what this is about. This is about something else, and that is important, namely that pilots have the feeling of insecurity, perhaps in relation to the fact that they do not have a fixed contract and perhaps worry about it. That is now apparent from this investigation. I have promised that I will also address this in a European context...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	Et cetera.
