ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u1	It is the third time, ladies and gentlemen, in this parliamentary year that there is a citizens' initiative on the agenda of the House of Representatives. Previously, the Chamber discussed the operation of our monetary system and the prohibition of nuclear weapons. I now turn to the citizens' initiative, 'One pill too much does not make a criminal'. The delegation of the citizens' initiative has taken its place in the chair, says here. I just don't see anyone sitting in the President's Lodge. That is now going to be the case; very good. These are Mr Tim Hofman, Mrs Linnemoor Looije and Mr Leon Zervos, all working for BNN. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. I also welcome the people in the public gallery and those who follow this debate in other ways. Mr Hofman will present the proposed citizens' initiative from the point of view of the Chair. I therefore ask the guardian of the Chamber to accompany Mr Hofman to the chair. We've just met. Mr Hofman, before I give you the floor, I note that it is the agreement that you should not interrupt during your speech. This means that no questions will be asked to you or comments made by Members of Parliament. You have five minutes to speak. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Earlier this year in the Chamber I asked what the dangers are in the use of ecstasy. Almost none of the policy makers, political mastodons or other seat fillers here in the Chamber managed to give me a decent answer. Much further than "this is not my wallet" or "no idea, but it's bad for you," palpably motivated from a sham progression over the years, fake liberalism or, God forbid, the pews didn't come. When I asked what the active substances in the aforementioned pill were, they were stunted, gambled or run away. All this would have little value if it were not for the people who have to make Dutch drugs policy, led by a minister of security and justice who once claimed that he lost a friend to the use of hashish, something that has never been registered anywhere, perhaps except for the few times that someone got a block of hash of 90 kilos on his head. So you could say that we from Sprays and Swallows are right to worry. Drugs and so on can be dangerous. These dangers are mostly due to ignorance: do not know how to use drugs through poor information or do not know what you are using because of a lack of testing possibilities. For example, you cannot have drugs tested in Zeeland or Rotterdam and the possibilities in the north of the country are also very scarce. It turns out, for example, that the zerotolerance policy leads to the fact that young people are less likely to go to first aid at a festival or festival if they notice that something is wrong. This is a direct effect of the fact that the subject of drugs is taboo. What does not help to improve or solve the problem that drugs can cause, although they are still so minimal at xtc that I would like to stress is that it is silent whether the lack of reasoning pushes into the taboo angle. The use of drugs should be openly discussed in Dutch society precisely because it entails dangers. Drugs are not used in any way. We believe that the more decriminalisation of drugs, in this case also ecstasy, contributes to reducing their dangers, partly because it becomes more discussable. That is why we of Syringes and Slikken thought it was time for a citizens' initiative and started the petition "One pill too much does not make a criminal." As it stands, you get a record on your criminal record if you get caught with more than one xtc pill at a festival or party. This can, for example, cause you to have problems with getting an explanation about the behavior. In the answers we received from Mr Van der Steur he said: it is very rare. We read: it happens. Whether you get that statement or not, we find the note on the criminal record and therefore criminalising possession of a minimum amount of drugs disproportionate and with us more than 40,000 Dutch. After all, they signed the petition "One pill too much does not make a criminal." Because why would you be a criminal with two pills in your pocket instead of one? Are we calling for reckless drug use or even for the use of drugs? No. We see trends, we follow them, and we also see that policies have to be different and different. Through the petition that has been put on the agenda for this evening's debate, we are calling for a more open debate on drugs, a debate that is quite fixed, and also for a more progressive and finally more liberal drug policy. So, to start tonight, this topic: does one pill make too much of a criminal? At least we don't think so. Kind regards, fervent non-drug user Tim Hofman on behalf of all Sprays and Swallows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you very much. The MP will escort you to the President's Lodge. After this inspiring speech, I will be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. My compliments to Tim and his colleagues who have managed to gather sufficient signatures to get this issue on the agenda here. Not a lot of people can do that, so, as the President said, that is a real achievement. As far as my group is concerned, the right of a citizens' initiative strengthens public involvement in parliamentary work and allows citizens to influence public policy. GroenLinks considers the current drug approach to be untruthful, counterproductive and inefficient. RIVM has made a ranking of the danger of all drugs. All the spokesmen are aware of this, and the Minister is undoubtedly aware of that. It's not hard to guess what's at the top, I've tried it out in my circle of acquaintances and everyone immediately gambles well: that's tobacco and alcohol. That's right, tobacco and alcohol are at the top, far away from the others. Then you get a list of the other species, now also banned, drugs. Crack is somewhere in the middle, among which are benzodiazepines, GHB and cannabis and only under cannabis is ecstasy. Then the ranking continues to lsd, qat and mushrooms. I assume the Minister knows these figures and does not dispute them. If you're wondering what rational policy is, you'd say you have to deal with the things that pose the most social and physical danger. However, we have not traditionally done so, because alcohol and tobacco have traditionally long been regulated and released and these other means have come onto the market later. My first question to the Minister is: why has Ecstasy become a hard drug again? I remember that once because a Scandinavian country wanted to prosecute a particular drug ring and needed it to be on the list of hard drugs. However, Cannabis is higher and this is seen in the Netherlands as a soft drug and to the grief of GroenLinks only tolerated and not regulated. Anyone who is arrested with Xtc pills for their own use is offered a settlement from the Public Prosecutor's Office. You pint the fine on the spot and you continue the party. No one's gonna tell you that that's why you confessed to guilt and that a criminal record is richer. Now I have read in the letter that the Public Prosecutor says that you will not get an immediate statement about the behavior, which means that you will no longer be able to take an internship, but does the Minister still think that that is really proportionate? With young people, you risk their whole future by one pill. The Dutch order of lawyers didn't mention this properly in 2014 and it still isn't. In the latest book of Maarten 't Hart, "The Mother of Ikabod," the author tells about his lunch with the then MP Van der Steur in the House of Representatives. In that book we read that the conversation comes at the criminality of 't Hart if he has more than five weed plants in his garden, and we read that the MP Van der Steur, if he was still a lawyer, would lovelyly stand by the Hart's legal side. A lawyer like this minister, who was a member of parliament at the time, you wish for every suspect. I wonder what his defense would be of a young person getting caught with one pill at a party. GroenLinks shares the view that one pill does not make too much of a drug criminal. We add: it is time for a different drug policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the compliments from our group to Tim and the team of Sprays and Swallows. We very much appreciate the success of the initiators in putting this issue on the agenda. However, they can expect little support from the CDA group. With the government, the CDA Group believes that a relaxation of action against drug possession is not desirable. On the contrary, we want to combat the standardisation of hard drug use. If you were to support this, you would have the idea that it doesn't matter so much; that's exactly what we don't want. The CDA is deeply concerned about the increase in the use of drugs in the nightlife circuit. The use of hard drugs, especially of xtc but also of cocaine, GHB and amphetamine, seems to be taking for granted during the last few years. This is also apparent from the study of the Trimbos Institute, cited by several people. Combined with other developments, such as an increasing dose of especially MDMA in ecstasy, the apparent underestimate of the risks of drug use and the increase in the number of large-scale events, parties and festivals, this standardisation has contributed to an increase in health incidents and health damage. Other studies also show that the Netherlands is really on the wrong track when it comes to drug use. In 2015, the KWR research institute showed that the Netherlands is among the top three countries in Europe in terms of drug use. Before that, people looked at the amount of drugs that disappeared in the sewers. The sewer works as a kind of mirror of society. In this case, that didn't yield a good picture. According to this research, Utrecht, Amsterdam and Eindhoven are building the crown; in these cities cannabis, xtc and crystal meth are dumped and discharged by users and producers in large quantities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u6	I wonder if this is a moral judgment: I'm fine with drinking alcohol but I don't approve of having someone with a pill at a party. I can totally imagine that. I just gave you an overview of the real damage, the number of deaths and the people with physical impairment. Then Mr Van Helvert must agree with GroenLinks that the damage caused by tobacco and alcohol is many times greater?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u7	This is about whether we want to allow something new, whether we want to broaden the rules. The CDA isn't for that. Call me one doctor who says it's healthy to use that. That's what we're talking about right now. If GroenLinks would like to start a debate on the use of alcohol: be my guest; you may do so. We are now having a debate on whether or not it is criminal to have a pill on our hands, a pill that can be life-threatening. I blame it for pretending that tests can give 100% assurance that the pill is safe. That is not the case. It is not 100% to guarantee that your body responds positively to such a pill. We are against sending out the following signal: it's fine, go ahead. I don't know any parent who likes his kid being allowed to do that by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u8	You scared the shit out of me. I thought you took one of those pills yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u9	My private situation is not relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u10	No, definitely not. But you suddenly went sky high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u11	I'm trying to untangle the answer. Is it about health concerns now? At the time of the prohibition in America, one of the biggest risks was that you didn't know what was in that alcohol, what it was produced and whether it was contaminated. After alcohol was regulated, people got a reasonable idea of how to react. Still, no doctor says alcohol is healthy. GroenLinks will never say that either. No doctor says you have to drink two glasses of wine every night. No doctor, nor GroenLinks, will say to people: you have to take drugs, very well, every young person has to do that at some point. We certainly will never say that. But if something happens, we also heard the man of the citizens' initiative say: this is happening anyway, then we as a government have a choice: or we pretend it doesn't happen and we stand here fetching that we shouldn't, or we say that we don't think this is a good idea, but at least we give people the opportunity to look at what they're taking and we also make sure that a human life doesn't get completely ruined by going wrong once. Isn't it CDA, also the party of forgiveness, not agreeing with me that going wrong once shouldn't mean starting a criminal record straight away on your internship or your career? That is what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u12	GroenLinks always wants to talk about alcohol. Most of Mrs Van Tongeren's words were about alcohol. If GroenLinks is so keen to start a fight against alcohol, it has to. I'm fighting to get hold of hard drugs here. The CDA is against that. That is what the CDA considers more essential at the moment. Mrs Van Tongeren talks about ruining an entire life immediately. First of all, responsibility begins with the person who swallows the pill. If someone does something that the law doesn't allow, you can never say that it's the government's fault that it has consequences. That's a bad start. First of all, I can't. Then, and Mrs Van Tongeren is right about that, it does not have to ruin a lifetime. That question was also addressed to the Minister. The Minister replied very clearly: if your record says that you took such a pill, that does not mean that you cannot apply for a dog. In fact, most of the people with whom this is the case have just been able to apply for a vog. In some cases this could not be done, but that is because a vog is delivered to a tailor-made model. In most cases there has been something extra going on. You're right, you're not getting a dog. But it's really wrong to say that your life is ruined by possessing a pill and getting caught for it. There's a better chance that a lot of pills will ruin your life and that of the people you've got a lot to do with. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u13	Either the microphones are very loud, or there is a lot of emotion about this subject. The CDA makes it very clear that it is in favour of repression in the field of drugs. It must be dealt with criminally, it must be on top of it. And yet there's something I don't understand. At the moment, there is repression. When I hear the CDA like that, it is very critical of the current drug policy and the amount of people who use it. In other words, the CDA criticises a policy that it itself supports. Should we not conclude with each other that the current repressive policy is not working?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u14	I am fine with having a debate on drugs policy here, but we must also say that we are going to have a debate on the whole of drug policy. I was invited here today and signed up for a debate on whether we think it is criminal or wrong to own a pill. We think that's a mistake. If Mrs Bergkamp wants to have a debate on the whole of drugs policy, I think that is fine, but she must be honest enough to include our regular spokesman on this subject, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Today is a debate on the proposal put forward by citizens. I believe that we should do justice to the citizens who bring that in. They have said that they want to talk about this particular situation and not about the whole of drug policy. Then the initiative of Tim and Spuiten and Slikken would also be snowed under. I don't think that's right. About what's going on here, excuse me if I speak a little loud, I say: if you get caught for using a pill, that's your own responsibility. We don't think it's a good signal to society when we say a pill more or less doesn't matter that much, dude. It is dangerous stuff, it is not healthy and it is not desirable as far as the CDA is concerned. D66 may think otherwise, but we do not think it is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u15	On the order of the debate: we are talking about the initiative. Then there are other subjects to discuss, but we are not going to talk about them all evening. If everyone takes that into account, it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u16	Something strange is happening right now. I agree with what the CDA spokesperson said, which criticises current policy. He's worried about the great use. He also mentions the public health argument. I will follow up with a question and then I get the story: I don't really know, ask another spokesperson. I find that disappointing. If you are standing here to talk about decriminalizing BNN and you cannot look beyond public health, then I think: what spokesperson are we dealing with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u17	No, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u18	But let me address Mr Van Helvert. Maybe he can answer the next question. Let's look at the adverse consequences of criminalizing. Now you don't get prosecuted on one pill, but you get a criminal record, while you can get prosecuted on more than one pill and you get a criminal record. If we're talking about that right now, then the CDA can't disagree with D66's statement that you're not a criminal with a couple of pills in your pocket, and that you have to deal with the traders instead of the user with a few pills in his pocket? I hope that the CDA spokesperson will be able to answer this simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u19	Now it's a couple of pills already. It's getting worse. We're against letting you have pills. We're not okay with that. Everyone knows you're a criminal if you get caught with that. And if there's too many, you'll get a criminal record. That is the case, and everyone must know it in advance. It's the same as speeding. You don't get a criminal record for that, by the way, or you must have driven way too fast. If you drive too fast, you can never say, "I didn't know." You're supposed to know that. It is good that the program Spraying and Swallowing makes this topic very easy to discuss. It is precisely through this programme that many more young people now know that it is punishable. Now, however, it's pretended that a record like that will stand on your record your whole life. That is absolutely not the case. For young people, the exception is that after two years it is no longer there. Furthermore, I would like to say once again that it is offered in vog's customization. A committee looks at what a vog is being applied for and what exactly the person concerned has done and, above all, has not done. In the case of a pill or, as D66 says, a few pills are then examined to see whether the risk to society is greater than the possible loss to the vog applicant. If that is not the case, just a dog is provided. This happens in most cases. The number of people who didn't get a vog because of a pill in their pocket is really very small.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Van Nispen. Oh, no, Mrs. Bergkamp. Very briefly. Perhaps a little shorter could be interrupted and answered. Otherwise, we'll be here at 2:00 a.m. tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u21	I still have one more question. Is the CDA satisfied with current policies? Or does it want a tightening up? I'm gonna find out exactly where the CDA is, also in relation to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u22	The softer we deal with hard drugs, the harder the consequences are. At least that's the case. The CDA says, "The best thing would be for no one to use hard drugs."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u23	I am a little surprised at Mr Van Helvert's remark that, if you support this citizens' initiative, you would send out the signal that it is all normal. Then I wonder whether he has based himself on the passionate way in which Tim Hofman has just made his presentation here? Or did he actually read the citizens' initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u24	Yeah, or I wouldn't be here. I'm standing right here because I'm the one who read this citizens' initiative. I got inspired by what Tim just said. I have also expressed my appreciation for the proposal. But if you appreciate anything, that doesn't mean it's just plain supportive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u25	No, of course not. However, I think the question is justified as to whether Mr Van Helvert has read the citizens' initiative. It says: "With the petition and the citizens' initiative, we want to ensure that a first conviction for having a small amount of drugs for personal use at a festival or party does not create any obstacles in obtaining a vog." And now it comes: "It's not like we want to take possession of hard drugs out of criminal law. We also do not want to promote the use of hard drugs." That's just what it says. How can Mr Van Helvert say that by supporting this citizens' initiative you are sending out the message that it is not so bad and that it is all good? How is that consistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u26	On this point, we disagree with the SP. The SP says, "Well, that's nice." It's also nice to tell your constituents that you don't care; everything should be possible in the Netherlands. There's got to be a way. Saying no to people isn't around these days. The CDA is making a point of this. We're not okay with this. We're not for that. We don't think it's normal that you just walk around with pills and need them at a party. We do not think that is normal, and we are opposed to that. So we differ and we may.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mr Van Helvert can all attribute to me opinions and things that I have not said at all. Maybe he can just listen to my input right now. I'm asking him to answer my question. Has he taken the trouble to read all about the short citizens' initiative, from a to z, and the two sentences I told him? How does that relate to his input? Can he just answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u28	I will answer this for the second time. I read the citizens' initiative. I keep saying that Sprays and Swallows and Tim can say that they want to make sure it isn't even criminal. I'm fine with that. You can imagine. But if you let me do that, I'm gonna find the CDA and the CDA with me that you're gonna send that signal. The SP may feel that this is not the case, but the CDA believes that this is a wrong signal to society, a wrong signal to young people, a wrong signal to parents who are worried about it, and a wrong signal to the parties that are being organised. We don't think that's a good signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr Van Helvert continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u30	We believe that, but it is good to see that from my reply during the interrupting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u31	It's very worrying. Instead of relaxing, the CDA Group is proposing an even stricter policy for possession of hard drugs. Does the cabinet see room to tighten the policy? How do you make "" besides a clear rejection of this initiative "" work to combat the normalization of hard drug use?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr Van Helvert says that he actually wants an even stricter policy. I can only imagine that the CDA Group has already thought about this. How does Mr Van Helvert see that? What does he hope the Minister will do if he proposes an even stricter policy on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u33	Yeah, that's the question I'm asking the Minister. Because, indeed, we are thinking about that, but that is difficult. That is why we ask the Minister to look with his officials at how to make things even stricter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u34	So you say, "I'll leave it to the Minister." It must be stricter, but you and your group cannot indicate how that should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u35	I could report that, but I'm not doing that right now. We are looking at how we want to do this and we want an opinion from the Minister. We hire a minister to think about this in the House of Representatives. We agree with the Minister that the use of hard drugs is not normal. We agree with this minister. We are therefore very curious to see how the Minister and his officials have thought about this. We want hard drugs to be minimized in the Netherlands. I don't know anyone who thinks that's a healthy situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u36	I support Mrs Volp's speech. It can't be that the CDA says that the criminal should be standing there for the CDA and then in no way can justify what that looks like. Isn't that what makes you unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u37	Not at all. I can't be clearer than I just was. The CDA would prefer not to use hard drugs. I'll ask the Minister how he thinks about that. I think that's a perfectly normal question. You are now asking me to unsubscribe the policy. I can surprise you: I do not. We prefer not to use hard drugs. I don't know any parent who likes to know his kid's going to a party where it's normal, where it's okay, where it's okay to have hard drug pills. That is simply a normal opinion of a popularly represented group. We ask the Minister how he stands in it. I think he'll find the same thing. Do you think he could come up with ideas? I think that's a perfectly normal question. But I get it: D66 doesn't agree with us. And that's allowed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u38	I agree with the latter. I have a question from a sense of reality. The CDA says we don't want it, we can't, it has to go. The fact is, of course, that with this policy, 80,000 people use ecstasy every month. The CDA may claim that this is not allowed and that ecstasy must be removed, but there is. So I call on the CDA to look at what we can do about the policy from a realistic point of view, so that we can at least bring more reality to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u39	Now it really breaks my clog: it's there, so we have to agree. It's not 80,000 people, it's a million people a month running through red lights. Then we're not gonna say, "You know what, all the traffic lights gone?" Every year thousands of people avoid tax. Then we're not gonna say: we're not gonna tax it anymore because we can't master it? 'Cause there's always people avoiding taxes. If you don't want something, you have to stand up for it. The CDA doesn't think it's normal for us here in the Chamber to approve that it's normal for you to go to a party with pills in your pocket, hard drugs pills in which absolutely dangerous pills are included. We are against this, and we do not think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u40	I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP. May I ask Members to listen to each other during the speeches? If you'd like to consult, please do so in the hallway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u41	But someone's been skipped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mr Van Nispen has the floor and Mrs Bergkamp then has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u43	I think Mrs Bergkamp will forgive me. Mr. Chairman. The SP supports the citizens' initiative. A first conviction for possession of a small amount of drugs should not be an obstacle to obtaining a vog, a statement of behaviour. Support, therefore, and a compliment to the citizens who have taken this initiative, especially for the passionate way in which Tim Hofman presented it. However, in my opinion, the cabinet response of 29 September 2015 also contains good elements, for example that hard drugs should be discouraged and that the use of xtc, cocaine and GHB is worrying. The SP doesn't want to normalize hard drugs. Risks are there. But if they're found, the question is, how do you deal with it? We have already pointed out the major problems with the search washes at festivals. Without the assistance of a lawyer, people from the D.A. were given a sentence by paying them directly so that they could return to the festival. Nicely fast and easy, but then they couldn't resist the judge anymore and ran the risk of a criminal record. This is where things have improved. The SP insisted at the end of 2014 that assistance should be insured and that access to justice was always assured. In the meantime, you can only pay directly if you've had advice from a lawyer. That's good. There have also been trials with legal aid at ZSM at the police stations. At events, the lawyer was also allowed to join. The SP has always said that the lawyer should be given a followable and structural place in this procedure. We were therefore pleased with the trials and the event schedule. Those tests have been carried out to the satisfaction of all parties. The added value was recognised by everyone, especially by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Despite all this, funding for the event scheme was discontinued in 2016. So there's no legal aid on site. Also in the regular ZSM process, the lawyer only joins when a so-called Salduz consultation is requested. For that, you have to go to the station and almost no one chooses, especially when you're at a festival like this. In short, we're back to square one. Why don't you just get the lawyer a chair again by default? Is the Minister prepared to make a budget available for the structural inclusion of legal aid in the ZSM process, including at events, as all parties concerned want? Does the Minister attend with interest the trial in Breda where a criminal attorney's office has recently been held every day at the police stations where ZSM is taking place? No suspect leaves the station without talking to a lawyer. Shouldn't we eventually go there? I'm gonna come up with a statement about the behavior. Here too, there is already some improvement. Nowadays, suspects should be reminded of the consequences for obtaining a vog if they agree to a settlement proposal. People get a leaflet, but is it also being considered whether anyone who understands that leaflet enough and can see the consequences well? Do people get fed if they have one too many pills on them? Are you or are you not a criminal if you have one pill too much? In the past, this has often been a question of well-being. The messages about it just kept coming. Also today, an attorney came up with examples. But when we asked the government from the Chamber if the policy was not too strict, the answer was: there are really very few rejections for the vog. That is why I want to make it very concrete today. It was also said by the director of Justis, the screening authority of the Ministry of Security and Justice on this issue: "Getting caught with a few pills is a small offense. Then we can't really imagine a job you wouldn't get for." Can the Minister confirm this? What about it? We are focusing on the concrete citizens' initiative. The concrete example is that of people carrying one pill too much. According to the Minister, are there any possible functions for which a vote can be refused? If so, what functions are these? If not, let us clarify that today: one pill too much does not yet make a criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr. Chairman. Within a short time, BNN collected over 40,000 signatures. That's quite an achievement. My thanks go to the team-Hofman of BNN. Thanks to this team tonight, we are discussing drug policy and, above all, decriminalisation. That is quite special, because we do not talk so often about drugs policy in the Chamber. Decriminalize ecstasy, that's the thrust of the petition. One pill too much doesn't make a criminal. That's right. At least that's how it should be. The aim of drug policy is to discourage and punish traders. Recreational use is not considered as a search priority. That's right, but finding a single amount of user will give you a record, a record. In his letter, the Minister writes that one user quantity directly gives rise to the suspicion of drug trafficking. I think that is a very special statement, because I think that is what we are going to miss out on. The Public Prosecutor's Office in Amsterdam sees five pills as a user quantity and not as a commercial quantity. This is based on years of experience at parties and in tourism. Often within a group of friends one person takes the drugs and then distributes them. The aim then is not to trade the drugs and make money with them. That makes sense, too. The tickets to a festival are often more expensive than selling a few pills. Someone with a few pills in their pocket uses them for themselves and for friends and is therefore not a trader. And shouldn't be treated like that. I would therefore like to see the possession of three ecstasy pills similar to five grams of hemp produced no criminal record and no prosecution. Then you don't get a record in judicial documentation and you don't get your vog in danger. I realize that this whole discussion about the vog over the past period has been a bit reliant, but it's just not nice to start with a criminal record when you're young.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u45	I just have an article in my hand, in this case of Omroep Brabant. A few highlights from that article I'll explain to Mrs Bergkamp. Two and a half years of research has led to the seizure of 15 kilos of pills, 15 kilos of MDMA, 100,000 xtc pills, 20 kilos of amphetamine, 400,000 euros hidden in mattresses, 2 kilos of cocaine and so on. What is Mrs Bergkamp's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u46	That the repressive policy of the present cabinet is not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u47	In this case, it's rolled up and you could also say it works. In the media, I have read that Mrs Bergkamp proposes that you leave the possession of a number of pills unpunished. In doing so, she is helping to serve those criminals who produce amphetamines in an industrial way. We don't want that, do we? We don't think that's normal in this country, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u48	Let me be clear: tonight's debate is about whether you are a criminal if you have a few pills in your possession. I don't think so. Apart from the debate on the vog, I do not agree with the idea that young people in particular should start with a record. I just don't think that's a good start, and that's what we're talking about tonight. Of course, I also think it is important to deal with traders. The current repressive policy of the VVD is fair, the PvdA is also in the cabinet... does not prevent an enormous amount of xtc being produced and dumped in nature. I am concerned about that, but I would like the VVD to get behind the ears and wonder if the policy is working with a war on drugs and punishment. I would like to see that reflection of the VVD in the debate sometime, hopefully already tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u49	Only because you're being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find it very complicated that Mrs Bergkamp, the spokeswoman of D66, is advocating, on the one hand, that we should leave the use and possession of more than one pill, and, on the other hand, leave three unpunished, and, on the other hand, completely separate from the other side of this dossier, industrial production. We can't disconnect that at all, because it's just a fact that criminals are going to make a lot of money in a way that I really don't want. I say "take it," and I hope Mrs Bergkamp will repeat it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u51	There's no causal link between them. According to current policy, you already get a note on one pill. A lot of ecstasy is being produced and dumped, and I am against it, but I do not see the causal link that Mr Van Oosten is suggesting. If you don't get a note on one pill and if more pills aren't prosecuted, there's really no sudden increase in the amount of waste. You can already see that a lot is being done and that a lot is being produced in the Netherlands. I really hope for some reflection of the VVD in this debate on the petition, because that would be a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u52	D66 makes the scholarship impossible through the student loan system, but wants to make it possible for students to bring a bag of pills for their friends. Does D66 agree with me that the consequences of the student debt mark students' lives much longer than a two-year record?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u53	I think this is such a bullshit argument that I'm really not going to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u54	That's not bullshit at all. I understand that Mrs Bergkamp may not be able to answer right away because she is not a spokesperson for education. It is true that someone has to pay off for years and years if he has a student debt of tens of thousands of euros, but that a student gets a record on his criminal record for up to two years for a pill too much. Does D66 agree with me that the students who are obliged by D66 to charge a debt of tens of thousands of euros carry that debt longer than the record record for a pill too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u55	You'd almost ask yourself, "How did you come up with it?" In the recent debate on public health, this spokesperson on drugs did not know anything about it. He is now linking up with the funding system and I would therefore almost ask him to turn it into a serious debate tonight and not fall into a political game, because he does not know about drugs and public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr Bergkamp just spoke to the two government parties about policy. Let me ask you another question. Today, she has indicated in the media that, as far as she is concerned, three pills should be taken. That sounds very practical and very nice: let's go to three pills; let's do that. Now one of the problems at Lowlands is that it is a multi-day festival. Am I supposed to see it like it's three a day? How does Mrs Bergkamp see this in practice? Does this not undermine the complexity of the problem? In particular, the importance of information on this issue is at stake. It is also important, as the petition states very clearly, that this does not automatically deny the explanation of behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u57	There are several questions in Mrs Volp's interruption. I think it is right for her to say that we should look at this from the perspective of public health. We absolutely share that with each other. That's why I said it wasn't just those three pills. The point is that there will be more testing opportunities, both at parties and outside; D66 has already argued for this. I know, for example, that Jellinek does a lot of good work in Amsterdam for that, but Jellinek runs into the limits of his capacity. Drugs are always at risk. If you have pills tested, it also offers an opportunity to get information, for example about the use of the pills, or about heating. Should I or should I not drink a lot of water when heated? There's all kinds of footage and stories about that. I therefore share Mrs Volp's view that this is certainly about public health. That's the spirit of my story, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u58	Then we share that part, but then my question remains: how should I look at the three pills? This gives you the suggestion that three pills is fine. For a multi-day festival, maybe three times three is nine. In doing so, Mrs Bergkamp undermines what she has just said that we share, namely the health interest. So I'd like to get a comment on this after all. How am I supposed to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u59	If the access is very strict, what do you get? Young people will then take several pills outside the festival grounds. There are signs of this, which I have talked about with Jellinek, for example. The Trimbos also indicates that. It also happens in regions that there are drug dogs. People think, "I'm gonna take those pills fast." There are also signs of this. The pills are very strong these days. That also makes people think: I only take one pill, and it is super strong. Of course you don't want to. People can also supplement it by drinking a lot of alcohol. It is precisely from the perspective of public health that I think it is important to take this out of the mysterious criminal sphere. We need to look at what is good for public health. We also have consultations with Jellinek, for example. There are signs of this kind from the E.R. I therefore hope that this reassures Mrs Volp: our proposal is certainly based primarily on the importance of public health. I shall continue my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u60	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u61	That is why I ask the Minister to enter into consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to amend the designation of the Opium Act in this way. Then it is clear to everyone that three pills are a user quantity and should therefore not be subject to criminal proceedings. This also ensures equality of law, including in the Netherlands. Everyone, wherever he lives and whatever festival he's going to visit, knows what he's up to. Then we can focus on the actual approach of the traders. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to this D66 proposal. I read it in the media, I must say, but I hope that the Minister, now that there is more time in between, may have a different opinion. I come to a point on which I have already said something; so I am keeping it a little shorter now. I think it is very important that there are sufficient testing possibilities. Fortunately, Secretary of State Van Rijn has already promised that there should be, but I also think it is important to know whether this Minister thinks that we should take a broader look, one cabinet, one mouth that we should take a closer look at the test sites. Are there enough capacity? Are there any bottlenecks? Can we look at ways of solving this with each other? I come to the last point in my speech. Xtc is on list I of the Opium Act and is therefore seen as a drug with an unacceptable risk. Nowadays there are rethinks and new insights, of many scientists. I think it would be a good idea to take stock of the situation, so that we are not only reacting from our political underbelly but on the basis of facts and scientific insights. So I ask the Minister: isn't this a good time to re-examine the place of ecstasy, list I or perhaps list II? I think it would be a good idea to back that up for once. The last insight dates back to 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators of this citizens' petition. I'd like to bounce the ball right back. It was suggested that no representative of the people could say anything about the dosage of MDMA in the ecstasy pill. That's not correct. I think you even said that on camera, Mr Hofman. I therefore have a correction on this point to the words of the initiators. In addition, I would like to say that we in this Chamber are in fact always getting bogged down in this kind of debate when discussing drugs. So the question is whether we are going to make much progress tonight. It would be a pity if that were not the case, because it does not do justice to the 40,000 people who signed the petition. We need to talk about what this petition says, so we need to talk about the concerns there were about the explanation of behavior. You would not get this vog if you were found with more than the tolerated user quantity. Since the initiative and the petition, a number of important steps have been taken which have at least improved information for people who go to festivals. Steps have also been taken in connection with the BNN broadcast. So we can also say that some of the concerns that have been expressed have already been resolved. We are still having a discussion that we will probably not resolve here tonight, namely the question of what is a quantity that could be used. Mrs Bergkamp suggested we could go to three pills. I do not think that will solve the problem. As far as my party is concerned, the key issue is that the policy at festivals should focus on information. This information must focus on the health aspects of the use of pills, because we live in a world in which they are used. I am very sorry for the CDA colleague, but that is the reality, so let us deal with it in a sensible way. In other words, information on health risks, but also information on the consequences of the use of pills at the moment, because it is covered by our criminal law. After all, the product xtc is covered by the Opium Act. The initiators do not question this either. As far as my party is concerned, information is the most important thing. I would like to conclude with what Mrs Bergkamp said earlier, namely that access to information at festivals must be guaranteed. As far as my party is concerned, so is testing. Of course, that immediately evokes the reaction that you should not take those pills because there is a zero-tolerance policy. However, we know that in practice people do use pills and that they also carry them. Then it is of the utmost importance that we prevent them from using that one heavy pill and ensure that they are properly prepared for and informed about what they want to use. In the run-up to this debate, I realized that last year there was a hit on booze and drugs. A colleague of this minister, the Secretary of State of VWS, has scored another gold record with that. He himself indicated that such a number could contribute to the information he would like to provide. The same rapper scored another hit this year, which is played and sung a lot at my house. The core of the text is 1, 2, 3, 4 pills. Can the Minister think about what the BNN initiators of this petition are calling for? Can we not make sure, in another way, that we focus on prevention and information, and that we think about a system where a warning may be an option the first time it is used? I suspect I already know the Minister's answer, but I would like an answer to this question from this minister in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u63	I'm trying to get hold of what the PvdA wants right now, looking at the petition. I also understand now that there is not a lot of movement in the cabinet, because I think Mrs Volp says...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u64	This seems to be going to be quite an argument. An interruption is short and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u65	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Volp says that the criminal consequences should remain with two and three pills. The PvdA doesn't want to change that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u66	We are in favour of clarity on the quantity of users. We've seen that the D.A. is dealing with this in different ways. Mrs Bergkamp herself pointed to the Amsterdam Dance Event, where a number of five were mentioned. I think there should be equality of law in terms of the quantity of users. However, we want to bet on something else. If someone is caught for the first time with a defined user quantity, we believe that a warning should be the first option. If it happens a second time, we can see what the consequences will be. However, the BNN initiatives of the citizens' initiative were an automatic link to the statement of behaviour, but that link is no longer there. I think that Mr Van Nispen has also put a clear question on that point. There's gotta be some clarity about the limitations when you get caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u67	I don't know if I totally understand. Mrs Volp thinks that D66's proposal on the number of three pills is not exactly what you think. But at what level does the PvdA consider that there should be no criminal record and prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u68	I think that the PvdA should be very clear about the directive of the Public Prosecutor. We have data on this and so does Mrs Bergkamp. It lays down conditions not only for pills, but also for other drugs, such as GHB. However, I do think that there should be clarity about how the public prosecutor applies the user quantity and how criminal proceedings are followed, as Mr Van Nispen pointed out. I do not think that we should determine a user quantity for one drug, because we know that this does not correspond to the reality of festivals. Festivalgoers not only use xtc, because there are now other products on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u69	I'm glad the PvdA suggests that a warning might be appropriate at a first time. However, I do not understand why we cannot talk about the user quantity. For hashish, we have set the user quantity at 5 grams, so why shouldn't we be able to determine it for xtc on three pills or what other number of pills the PvdA has in mind? In this way there is legal equality and clarity for the whole of the Netherlands, which the PvdA rightly advocated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u70	In my view, this is not a question of the user quantity of one, two or three pills, but of the possible consequences of the directives currently in force on the quantity of users. That is precisely what the citizens' petition is about: what consequences do it have for a possible explanation of behaviour? I think that the solution is too short when we say: let's fix a usage quantity of three pills, because then there is no problem anymore. If someone goes to a three-day festival, should we change the user quantity to nine pills? I don't see that in front of me. We would not do justice to the discussion about exactly what is in a pill. Mrs Bergkamp referred to this just now when she said that sometimes people take only one pill and use it at different times, because they know there is quite a bit of MDMA in it. I think the solution today is not to set another limit for the number of pills. We need to talk about equality and the consequences. We also need to think about a system in which there is a first warning, so that there can be clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u71	I understand this is very difficult for the PvdA. The PvdA heart probably says it's brightest for kids if they know that for example three pills are okay, while four are not allowed, just as we now unfortunately say in the Netherlands that 130 km/h is allowed, but 140 km/h is not. At least that way, everyone knows what they're up to. The PvdA is stuck between the VVD and what it wants. Could the spokesperson of the PvdA light up a little tip of the veil? If someone visits a three-day festival, they shouldn't have 15 grams of hashish in their possession. We have a clear limit for everyone: it is forbidden in itself, but it is tolerated. I think that warning is a very good suggestion, but people need to know if they get it on one, two or three pills. Otherwise, kids still don't know, and we still get legal inequality and unclearness. Can we get a clear PvdA position tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u72	As far as I am concerned, it is very clear and not very complicated and certainly not under the influence of a possible liberal coalition partner. We are sticking to the user quantity now laid down in the directive. I do not see any added value in the extension to three pills, because that does not solve the problem. We'll solve a problem if we can clear up the consequences if you get caught with too much. We also want clarity about testing locations. Above all, we also want the policy of this cabinet to be based on explanations, information and clarity about the health consequences and legal consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u73	I must confess that I do not fully follow Mrs Volp either. If I understand correctly, she says on behalf of the PvdA that you should initially be able to use a warning. If you have too many pills in your possession, you could no longer get a dog. That's what we're afraid of. That's why you should be warned: once and never again! What if I drive 140 next week? Does Mrs Volp therefore think that a warning could be sufficient in the first instance? Or suppose someone steps behind the wheel with not the maximum two wine, but four wine. Does Mrs Volp therefore think that they should be given a warning first and that we should look further afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u74	I find these false equations. I would like to comment on that, but then we will have the same discussion about too much as Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Helvert had earlier. There is, of course, also the possibility that someone with a huge trading stock will be found. As far as I am concerned, that is not a warning. So I don't think this comparison goes far enough. If someone is really found with too much alcohol behind the wheel, they will be denied driving. In other cases, he'll be fined. We also have such a system for the amount that is found with someone at a festival. We believe that there is no need to fix a different user quantity for these pills, but that you can think about a system of warning, which is also more focused on prevention and information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u75	I think it's a little lame to say that this is a false equation. I'm not going along with that. I'm just recording it as Mrs Volp's opinion. Still, I find this difficult to follow. It is a matter of rules that we lay down here. We have established that possession of hard drugs on the opium list, in this case the ecstasy pill, must be punishable. You have to maintain or decide to change that whole rule, but you can't say it's criminal except for the first time. I just find that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u76	Do I have to respond to this? I understand that Mr Van Oosten finds it complicated. It's possible. Maybe it's complicated for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already told and said the necessary things about this citizens' initiative. May I first of all say the following? Recently I read an article in the newspaper about a mother who happened to the terrible suffering that her son died of an overdose of ecstasy. When I read something like that, it scares the hell out of me. It hurts me. Then I understand that a lot of people are just worried about the fact that the use of pills, hard drugs, recorded on the opium list, seems to be getting more and more normal. Parents are worried about their children, about what might happen to their children. I'm thinking about that, too, and I'm worried about that, too. I don't want a country where ecstasy pills can be used freely. Whether it's a pill or three pills, I just don't want to. I'm afraid of that. As far as the VVD is concerned, hard drugs are a step too far. These are hard drugs. As I pointed out in the little interrupting debate with Mrs Bergkamp, we should not be naive about the trade component, about the industrial production component. There is a great deal of intertwining with serious organised crime, with producers who have no other purpose than to make money in a gross manner at the expense of our children's health. I just don't want to. It may be too common in the eyes of young festivalgoers, but it may happen that one is caught because one or more pills are in possession for one's own use. Own use or not, it's forbidden. The fear that it will then have far-reaching consequences for the career, you can nuance something. I heard colleagues do the same. It's said you couldn't get a positive explanation of the behavior anymore. There is a need to change the argument that it could have disproportionate consequences. We received a letter from the Minister. Legal aid shall be granted in order to ensure that such a transaction is not accepted too easily. In addition, I do not share the concern that possession of a relatively small amount of hard drugs would stand in the way of positive feed. I read that in the Minister's letter and I heard colleagues asking questions about whether there could be a risk to society, if that particular job were to be chosen. They're often young people. The review period is two years instead of the usual four years. I'm rounding up. It's simple for the VVD. I said earlier in this room that if someone wants to smoke a joint, they should do it nicely. I'm liberal enough for that. I won't do it myself, but if anyone wants to do it, they have to do it nicely. I'll draw a line on hard drugs like ecstasy. I don't want to, and that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mr Van Oosten makes a passionate speech and actually says: I do not want it and so we should not debate it wisely. Eventually, it happens in reality and we know that the dangers of this hard drug, compared to a number of other hard drugs, are not that bad. So it is important that we inform people about it as best we can. Mr Van Oosten says: I do not want it. Do we not want to give more information about this? "I don't want it" isn't gonna change the world. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u79	I have concerns, too. I have concerns as a politician and as a father. That is why I say very simply: do not do it, do not use it, but inform people about it. That's what happens, isn't it? I have no objection to this, but I do not have to cooperate in normalising the use of those ecstasy pills in such large quantities. I don't need any of that. I hope that information can help to ensure that this does not happen. Perhaps this evening's debate can also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u80	Fortunately, we agree on the importance of information. The core of information must be to point out the risks involved. Let's get to the bottom of this evening. "I don't want it" is not the point we should be talking about tonight. What does the VVD think of this initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u81	I already told you. I do not share the concerns of the citizens' initiative. I do so on the basis of the letter we received from the Minister, in which he explained the nuances I just mentioned about the fear that no positive explanation of behaviour can be obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u82	The VVD colleague's argument is a bit along the lines of: the best way to prevent teenage pregnancy is not sex. Of course, I can't. We live in a world where there are a lot of things I'd rather they weren't there. However, we in the Chamber, especially at the VVD, generally look at facts, scientific arguments and policy starting points. The policy starting point for drug policy is public health. If that's what you're assuming, you should say that testing should be possible, because we don't want there to be crap or a lot of active substance in such a pill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u83	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u84	My question is whether the VVD colleague agrees with me that we should look at public health and that you should therefore allow minimum testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u85	I was also looking into the question, Mr President. I understand the question in the end is whether you want to allow tests. The answer to that is that I have no need to cooperate in legitimising something that we have criminalized. The Minister will undoubtedly go into this later, but I think that is the most logical answer. There's something else. I'll allow myself to do that for a while, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Tongeren pretends that it is only about public health. As far as I am concerned, that is not the case. I have also mentioned another, very important, component, namely the serious intertwining with organised crime. I really would not want to ignore them in this case, as I say to Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u86	So the VVD really thinks you're fighting serious crime by giving kids who get caught at a festival with three pills a conviction? That is what my colleague in the VVD is serious about, that it is possible to combat serious crime in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u87	Those pills are sold, aren't they? Those pills are being converted, aren't they? There's no criminal running pills out of idealism, is there? A criminal runs those pills, puts those pills together to sell them. He does that to those festivalgoers for whom Mrs Van Tongeren stands up. I'm worried about that. That's my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mr Van Oosten and I both know that the situation around the vog can indeed be nuanced. Whether a dog can be refused or not depends on the crime and the type of job you want afterwards. Mr Van Oosten bases himself 100% on the Minister's letter in which he writes that everything is not so bad. However, the Minister does not say: with one pill too much you will get a vog. My question to the VVD Group is whether there are any jobs that you shouldn't get for by one pill too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u89	I do not think it is up to me to assess which jobs would no longer be eligible. It begins with the fact that you have self-responsibility for doing something that is not allowed. Especially when you're an adult, you can have a certain responsibility. For young adults up to 23 years of age, the return period is only two years, so it does not apply after that. So it is not true that I also read in the Minister's letter that no profession can be exercised and that any career can be smothered in the bud. However, it does start with taking responsibility for the fact that you are doing something that we have not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr Van Oosten now says that it is not the case that no job is possible anymore. This is different from the observation made by, for example, the director of the screening authority. He said he can't actually imagine a job that a dog is refused because of one pill too much. What attitude does Mr Van Oosten now feel more at home in the attitude that there is actually no job conceivable for which one pill is too much an obstacle for the vog or the Minister's attitude that it does not have any consequences for all jobs? I am nevertheless looking for the attitude of the VVD Group towards the specific offence of this citizens' initiative. With one pill too many, are you or are you not a criminal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u91	I already told you. I joined the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber. In this I read in a nuance of what the initiators of the citizens' initiative are advocating. It is therefore not the case that there is never any possibility of obtaining a vog that is actually the spirit of the citizens' initiative. That is not the case, because it is possible. It may depend on the kind of function you aspire to. The Minister will respond in response to Mr Van Nispen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mr. Chairman. It has already been mentioned a few times: the BNN program Spraying and Slikken collected 40,000 signatures under the petition "One pill too much does not make a criminal." "Citizen initiative" is the official word, but perhaps we should call it a journalist initiative...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u93	Of course, I am trying to tell Members that they must discuss the motions in the suspension or in the corridor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u94	Thank you. Technically, of course, it is still just a citizens' initiative. Everyone who does this deserves tribute, but of course you do not have to agree, as Mr Van Helvert said earlier. That will also be demonstrated by my contribution. The petition should prevent arrest with a small amount of drugs intended for personal use from affecting the obtaining of a vog. According to the initiators, caught party-goers at major events are increasingly given a criminal order on the spot when they are caught with an xtc pill too much in their pocket. Then it is nice that they are often able to get back on the festival grounds quickly, but it is a pity that in some cases they can whistle to jobs in care or education or as a taxi driver for the next four years. A criminal decision can cause problems in obtaining a vog, which is necessary for certain jobs. That is clear, and the initiators think that this is far too high a price. In his response, the Minister indicated that hard drug use was becoming more and more normal and that this resulted in an increase in health incidents and damage. On the contrary, the government wants to combat the use of hard drugs and a relaxation of action against drug possession is not appropriate, says the Minister. Recreational use of hard drugs and possession of a small amount for personal use does not give rise to a search priority. That, I think, is a great deal about the way in which the government stands in this debate. For a change, we agree with the Minister. No tracking priority, that's a hell of a lot. People who are caught at a festival do not immediately receive a penalty decision without being aware of it and unable to oppose it. If legal aid cannot be granted on the spot, the Public Prosecutor shall use as an implementing measure that no criminal order imposing a fine is issued. However, the prosecution imposes, for example, a criminal order with a community service, a measure or a designation. A suspect can therefore always refer the decision of the D.A.'s office to a court and provide himself with legal aid. There's even a pilot legal aid running at local events. Finally, someone with a criminal record can get a dog. It's been remembered here before. In doing so, account shall be taken of the type of function in relation to the offence. It then looks at, for example, the number of crimes, the length of time, etc. Age also plays a role. Again and again, this consideration is made of whether the application for a bird outweighs the risk to society. Mr Van Oosten of the VVD said that too. I told you, for a change, we agree with the government. The possession of hard drugs is a criminal offence. If you break the law, criminal action is the result. Those who are caught with hard drugs have nothing to complain about as far as my group is concerned. They're still being taken into account. I have just indicated this at the beginning of my term. No criminal order imposing a fine shall be issued so that a suspect may refer the decision to a judge. Legal aid is then the result. Then they can go straight back on the festival grounds. How much more consideration do you want? As far as PVV is concerned, they should be banned there. Anyway, let's be tolerant in that too for once. There is no question at all of automatically not getting a piece of cake. For example, possession of drugs on your criminal record is not a problem if you apply as a plumber or cashier. But the alarm bells are gonna ring if you want to work in a hospital. That makes sense, since you can come into contact with medication or drugs or even steal them. At the Medical Center West, a doctor with sweats like that once walked around; who doesn't know the picture from the old days? If you can't get anywhere near medication in that job or you've only been convicted of possession once, you're probably just gonna get a vog. I'm almost done. In the case of young people under 23 years of age, the assessment can only look back for two more years. With two years of waiting, this person still gets the dog. If Service Justis doesn't deliver a vog, the risk to society simply outweighs it. That's right; you're sticking to the law. If you don't, you'll know the adverse consequences, the consequences of your own behavior. Learn from it, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u95	Why does that last sentence "do you stick to the law or the consequences are for you" apply to drugs but not to speeding? I'm also a traffic spokesperson. There the PVV, by the way also by the VVD, complains that there are too many fines. Does that "hold on to the law" apply anywhere, or does that apply very selectively to something the PVV might have moral problems with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u96	That last word is clear in the discussion, otherwise we will have a blur of the discussion and a misrepresentation of things will be given. We're a law-and-order party. We are always in favour of sticking to the law. However, we can complain about the priorities that are being set. Do you have to flash off anyone who drives 1 km/h too fast all the time? Or should you say: I put more blue on the street and do it in a different way than just with flashboxes, where you pull the scrolls or the data and with which you label motorists who are on their way to work? We call for the speed to be increased to 130 km/h and in some places even 140 km/h, so that everyone within that range can decide how far he pushes the accelerator. That way, traffic on a highway will be able to regulate itself up to that limit. Above that, it is indeed a criminal offence, but as the law is now, everyone is committed to it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u97	Then why should we not do the same? There is no penalty at 131 or 132 km/h. That doesn't happen until 139. Why should we not do exactly the same with one or two pills, a user quantity? Then we are consistent. It should appeal to a law-and-order party to say the same thing: if you are a little bit above it, it does not have a policy priority; the police do not have to be on top of it; we do not do that too fast; we do not do that with one or two pills?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mrs Van Tongeren didn't listen very well. I said, "Everyone has to abide by the law." It's about where you put priority on blue on the street. One pill too much is already not given a search priority. It is therefore already being taken into account. You can just get back on the festival grounds. Mrs Van Tongeren and I can turn that into a wells-noise, but I know stories of people who could just go back afterwards. So there's probably holes there. One doesn't say, the other says. I know it is. So they are already being taken very much into account. If you calculate that to drive too fast, Mrs. Van Tongeren lets everyone 180. That's not what you're supposed to do, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u99	This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber, with the exception of Mrs Bergkamp's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u100	I'm getting a little tired of the comparison with speeding. If you drive too fast, you can hurt someone else. By speeding, you can hit another man with terrible consequences. A pill you take or have in your pocket, you swallow yourself. That's for your own use. Of course there are drug risks, but then it's about your own body. So I don't understand the constant comparison with speeding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u101	It was Mrs Van Tongeren who made the comparison. I replied to that. I think it is appropriate to give my colleagues an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u102	I think we are gradually going a little too far. Last chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u103	Then I'd like to get a response to my question. The comparison with over-speed driving, which has also been used in an interruption debate before, I believe with the CDA, is a nonsense equation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u104	Again, I didn't make her myself. Mrs Bergkamp says: I am tired of the comparison. Then she makes her own and I have to answer that again. That creates a very strange perception. But again, I think everyone should abide by the law. That's what the whole PVV group thinks. There are comparisons being made that I don't want to make myself. So if Mrs Bergkamp says "I'm making a nonsense comparison here" about herself, then I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for inviting it to act as its advisor to the present citizens' initiative, which was launched at the initiative of BNN, more specifically the Sprays and Slikken programme. Syringes and Slikken is a programme in which, in general, constructive but also sometimes critical attention is paid to drugs and sexuality and the elements involved are brought to the attention of young people. It is also a program that I have been able to watch regularly with great pleasure at the time I was still a normal MP. I have to admit that in the last year I have less opportunity because I am generally working at the time of broadcasting, but I have followed Mr Hofman's progress towards his own weed nursery with great enthusiasm, and we have had a chance to discuss this together. That is also what we have done about the citizens' initiative that is now before us. I'll come back to that later. The idea behind the initiative is twofold. Firstly, the citizens' initiative calls for a larger amount of ecstasy pills to be identified as a user quantity. The result would be less criminalisation, as I understand it. Secondly, it is indicated that there would be a problem in obtaining a statement of conduct, if, on the basis of the excess of the user quantity, the public prosecutor and the person concerned chose to take a criminal decision, or if there is criminal proceedings leading to a criminal conviction. Mr Van Nispen has already referred to this question in the past, and many questions have been put by several Members of Parliament. I agree with the words of appreciation and thanks expressed by the spokesmen. Achieving 40,000 valid statements of support is, of course, a great achievement, and it is also good to see that this initiative involves so many people on a social issue, in this case the social issue of hard drugs. It has also been discussed in detail by Members: hard drugs seem very popular with young people who go out regularly at the moment. Unfortunately, the use of hard drugs at festivals is a well-known phenomenon and the use of hard drugs such as xtc, but also cocaine, GHB and amphetamine seems to have become increasingly common in recent years. As I explained in my letter, the cabinet sees a great risk. The number of health incidents caused by night-time drugs and the severity of these incidents have increased in recent years. Primary drugs are dangerous, and this is certainly true of ecstasy, which is becoming more and more common at ever-increasing doses. Moreover, many users do not realize that those pills are no longer the same as they were a few years ago. The government, in particular the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, and I want to counter this trend of standardising hard drug use in the nightlife circuit. Facilitation of action against drug possession, and certainly possession of hard drugs, is not in line with the approach we have chosen as a cabinet. Hard drugs are not legally allowed to be in possession. Festivalgoers know this and should also know this. This is also clearly communicated by festival organisations, including through the Celebrate Safe campaign. Moreover, prior to entering festival sites, there are ample opportunities to turn in the hard drugs. If you are still found with hard drugs on the festival grounds, finding more than the user quantity will lead to the suspicion of drug trafficking and this will be sanctioned criminally. Moreover, a user quantity is not tolerated either. Once found, it is impounded. In the use of hard drugs, including at festivals, the use of criminal law is the final part of all measures taken to ensure the health and safety of the entertainment public. In doing so, criminal prosecution is mainly directed at dealers. BNN argues that people who have been caught at a festival with more than the amount of hard drugs by the criminal order without the intervention of a lawyer get a criminal record, without being aware of it and without being able to oppose it. I can reassure the initiators on this point: in the meantime, the Public Prosecutor's Office is using as an implementing measure that, in cases where legal aid cannot be granted, there is no criminal decision that does not have the possibility of opposition, for example by paying directly. A suspect therefore always has the possibility of subjecting a criminal order imposed by the Public Prosecutor to the judgment of the court and providing legal aid in that context. In addition, before being questioned by the police, all suspected persons are informed in writing by means of a comprehensive information leaflet. Mr Van Nispen pointed that out. This leaflet informs suspects about their rights and duties: about the course of a ZSM process, about the different possibilities of settlement but also about the possibilities of legal aid, the consequences of building up judicial documentation and a possible future Vog application. That brings us to the point of the dog. By the initiators, the concern has been expressed that once a quantity larger than a user quantity has been found with you, you will never get a vog again. The spokesmen have already said a great deal about this, especially the current policy. Let me say the following. On the one hand, the purpose of the declaration on behaviour is to protect society. On the other hand, the statement on behaviour supports resocialisation, because a convicted person can go to work somewhere, he or she will also get a vote for it where the nature of his or her conviction and the nature of the offence does not entail any risk to the work that the person concerned intends to do. It has been rightly pointed out that young people are in principle looked back for two years. That's four years in adults. In this way the vog works optimally protective for society, but at the same time supporting towards the convicted offender. Let me explain that process. An extensive assessment process by the Justis Service precedes whether or not to issue a vog. When assessing a vog application, Justis first looks at the purpose of the application and the judicial documentation of the applicant. If there is a criminal record, a balance of interest is made which also takes into account the circumstances of the case, such as the number of offences and the length of time since the offence. In this way it is assessed whether the performance of the task or function creates a risk to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u106	The minister just said that a younger person has been looked back for two years and four years with an adult. We are 18 adults in the Netherlands. So we look back from 18 years to the age of 14 years. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u107	No, because the two-year review period applies to young people under 23 years of age. In practical terms: if an applicant has committed a drug offence and has been sanctioned for it, then it has not been said that every animal will be automatically refused. The vog is custom-made. That is an important point, because the initiators think differently about it. For example, in the case of a one-off marginal violation of the rules on possession of drugs, a fee will simply be provided for, for example, an administrative function. Customization means that a dog can often be delivered. I will put it in perspective: the number of applications rejected in 2015 was only 0.35% of the total number of applications. A dog is thus allocated in 99.65% of the cases. The government considers it important that the target group targeted by BNN, namely young people and young adults, should be at the start of its professional career. The Secretary of State and I don't want them to suffer for too long from crimes they committed at a younger age. Therefore, the time limit for young people up to 23 years of age is only two years in the context of the assessment of vog release; for people over 23 years of age, this period is four years. In addition to the importance of security, justice is an important starting point for our rule of law. We are constantly looking for the right balance between, on the one hand, the social need to protect society and, on the other, justice. That balance is there in concrete terms. The Chamber regularly asks for statements of behaviour to be applied when there is specific target groups to be protected, such as children. There are many other examples in which the vog has a very important protective role for society. It is very important that the right balance is always sought between this social need on the one hand and the importance of the individual and the right to a second chance on the other. There is a proper balance in current policy. Because of the facts I have just laid down, the initiators can also find them in the letter I have sent. I do not see any reason to change the policy. I then have five issues: the need to be even more comprehensive in relation to individual questions, legal aid, enforcement, harmfulness of drugs and the fight against standardisation. I shall deal with these issues in turn. I'm just gonna start by explaining the behavior. Mrs Volp asked: what about the explanation of behavior? She asked if you could also say that with a certain amount of drugs, and with a certain amount, a vog cannot be delivered. Is there a limit to that? That question cannot be answered in general terms, because the penalty level, the history of the crime and the function for which the vog is requested are decisive for obtaining the vog. There's always customization. An individual assessment is therefore made each time. Each vog request is always linked to a particular function. This also means that the rejection of the Vog application in one case does not mean that the applicant could not simply get a Vog in another case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u108	We have already received a letter from the Minister to answer the question of a vog, which the initiators say you will no longer get when you are caught with too many drugs. I have also had discussions with the Secretary of State for Security and Justice about the fact that young people are often afraid to ask for a statement of behaviour, because they assume that they will not get it. That is a very worrying development, especially for the most vulnerable young people. How can we give more clarity? I understand it's customization. Mr Van Nispen referred to the director of the Justis Service, who says: I can't actually imagine a job for which an offence such as a festival could be committed, could be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mrs Volp also asked that question in the first place. So I had an answer to that and I will recite it. A survey carried out by my department has indeed shown that both young people and youth professionals estimate the chances of getting a bird low. I myself have had a few conversations with young people, in which I have been able to tell them that it is simply not true. This means that good information is also what the Secretary of State said when Mrs Volp asked the question, which can contribute to a correct picture of the vog. This has also been promised by the Secretary of State, specifically aimed at young people and their environment. Young people, youth workers, parents, schools, employers, internships and municipalities are therefore closely involved in this process. Clarification of drug vog policy is also part of this communication process. We are also willing to agree to this additional communication process, specifically aimed at festivals and drug use and the possible consequences for obtaining a vog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u110	In any case, this can help to remove false assumptions. I did have one more question. The Minister mentions a number of figures in his letter. They are generally about issuing statements of behaviour. Can the Minister comment more specifically on information on statements of conduct that are not issued due to an infringement of the Opium Act? This is about having more than the user quantity at festivals. Does the Minister have any more specific figures on this? I also like to get a specification to the 23-plussers, because they make up most of the festival audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u111	I think that is very difficult to give, but I have to make that clear in the second period. Why is that difficult? Because Mrs. Volp is asking for rejected vog applications. It will in many cases be rejected for other reasons or for more reasons than just drug use, as I have just indicated. If Mrs Volp asks me to look at a very large number of refusals to vote one at a time and to process them manually, I do not think that is a good idea. I don't think that's what she wants either. I don't know if we have a picture of that. Mrs Volp also knows that not I but the Secretary of State is about the vogs. In the second term, I would like to look at what I can and, above all, what I cannot do for Mrs Volp on this point. In general, Mrs Van Tongeren asked me whether I consider it proportionate that, after a conviction, a vog can be refused, for example, in the case of a conviction for having more than the amount of drugs in possession. In principle, this can be proportionate in certain cases. However, I have already said that in most cases it is expected to be possible to issue a vog. However, there are vulnerable functions that require a very high degree of integrity. In these positions, smaller drug offences may also be of interest in the assessment. They may then stand in the way of the issue of a vog, I say to Mrs Van Tongeren. Think of extraordinary investigative officers, staff of the Public Prosecutor's Office or staff of the Judicial Institutions Service. In the event of refusal of a vog, the seriousness or topicality of the offences committed shall be such that the interest of society outweighs the interest of the applicant in obtaining the intended job. Mr Van Nispen asked what was going on. He actually asked the same question: can you or can you not get a vog? The starting point is that in most cases you will get a vog, but in some cases that is not possible, as I have just explained to Mrs Van Tongeren. I'm coming to the block about legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u112	I see MPs walking to the Interrupt Microphone. I doubt for a moment, because we just found out that a question was being asked to which the Minister's answer was to come. Perhaps it would be useful to wait for the Minister to give his answers. Unless you have the impression that it has not been discussed in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u113	With a certain probability, I know that it is, because the Minister said: end of the road over the vog. That is what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u114	We'll take our chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u115	The minister said the initiators suggest you'll never get a dog again. However, I have not read that at all in the citizens' initiative. I do think that the Minister should do justice to the text, namely that a small amount of drugs should not create obstacles to obtaining a vog. The Minister's answer is: no, it is possible to obtain a vog, for example in an administrative position. I had hoped very much that we could make it more concrete today, that we would not be stuck in the vog process description, because we all know it, and that we would not be told that it is custom-made. Can the Minister specifically, following the text of this citizens' initiative, one pill too much does not make a criminal, concreteise for which functions you do not get a vog? I was hoping he'd give that a little bit of substance here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u116	For the record: when the initiators say that a conviction should not hinder a vog, they say that a vog should always be given to young people, even if they have been convicted or have been given a penalty decision. That is the whole tone of the initiative. Young people and youth workers are concerned that this barrier exists. That is not the case, but people think it is. It's perfectly clear. In my view, there is no difference between my paraphrase of the purpose of this citizens' initiative and what the initiators themselves point out. I then explained that this concern is not justified and that we are releasing communication on it, at least that is what the Secretary of State will do. Of course, there is no way to give an example of specific functions, for the simple reason that you have to ask the question: what more should be going on, on top of the condemnation for more pills than the user quantity, before you come to a refusal of a vog? That's casuistic. That's customization. I am not tempted to give here a list of functions that could, for the simple reason that it is best that under other circumstances in the individual case still has to be chosen to refuse the vog. It can just be. Let Mr Van Nispen stick to the idea that this occurs only in 0.35% of the cases. In 99% and a little more of the cases, in the Netherlands, just a dog is issued for functions for which that dog is requested. So the problem we are trying to solve is not that big.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u117	That's fine. It is very good that the Minister stresses this again, because everyone has to ask for a vog to see what is coming out of it. We agree on that. Let's change the circumstances for a while. There are no other crimes at stake and there is no history of crime and so on, but only the offence of one pill too much. The director of Justis says he can't actually imagine a position for which you couldn't get a vog. Can the Minister confirm that here? I repeat: there are no other crimes, there is no crime history, but only one pill too much. Are there any functions you can't get a vog for? Why can't we actually get a list of them, maybe in second term? Because if there are criteria, I wonder what functions they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u118	Mr Van Nispen continues to ask the same question. He asks how we will do customization based on individual cases. You can never make a list of them. You shouldn't want to, because if you do, you would say: in those cases it always is. But it may well be that in some cases this is not the case at all, because there is more to it than just this. So it's very simple. I have already said what I said about the chances of getting a bird if there is a criminal decision just for this fact. It also depends on when it was. Is that two years ago or was that last week? That's all relevant when you apply for a vog, because it's customization. Customisation is not suitable for making lists for customization, because the essence of customization is that you do not have lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u119	I have a question about this block, which is mainly about the vog. Why are we doing what we're doing? The minister says that one pill almost always gives you your vog. This is the case with a very large percentage; the other percentage is almost negligible. Still, you get a note on one pill too much. Even with one pill, you get a note. Why do we do that? If there are risks to public health to his legal policy, is the Minister prepared to reflect on that for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u120	I do not understand the second part of Mrs Bergkamp's question. The first part is. I have already said this, but I repeat it for the sake of clarity: one pill does not result in a note, because it is part of the user quantity for which no criminal proceedings and no criminal order are applied. That's the D.A.'s policy. Furthermore, if you do get that punishment decision, you will have more than the user quantity. That is what we have policy for. I can also tell you that a large majority in the Chamber wholeheartedly supports this policy. The second question must be reworded by Mrs Bergkamp, because I did not understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u121	Let me rephrase the question. What if there are risks to the Minister's legal policy? I will briefly give a few examples to illustrate this. If access is properly controlled, there are signs that people are thinking: well, I'm only taking one very strong pill from now on because of all the criminal consequences around it. There are also people who say outside the festival grounds: I only take two. Furthermore, there are people who think during the festival: I only have one pill, because that is criminally the least risky and that is why I supplement it with a lot of drinking. Perhaps the Minister's legal policy is correct within the framework and the brackets, but if it has negative consequences for public health, is the Minister prepared to reflect on the current legal policy with the Secretary of State for Public Health from the point of view of public health and its effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u122	I do not think that Mrs Bergkamp's reasoning can lead to the conclusion that you need to pursue a different policy. Mrs Bergkamp actually says: if people are going to use a lot of drugs, you should actually review your policy. No, the government has a very clear policy. Hard drugs are not tolerated. They're dangerous and they're not on list I for nothing. That's what specialists judge. The government doesn't make that up. On the basis of a whole analysis, certain products are added to List I of the Opium Act. Mrs Bergkamp knows that. There is no reason to say, through Mrs Bergkamp's reasoning, that things have to be different. That would be the same thing if you said: a lot of people get caught driving under the influence, so we have to change those arrangements. I do not intend to do that, not even with regard to hard drugs. I come to Mr Van Nispen's questions on legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mrs Van Tongeren at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u124	It is good that the Minister himself gave the example of traffic, because in flashes we do exactly that. If there is a flash and that gives a dangerous situation, so more chance of accidents, then the police are urged to stop and leave. This minister knows that. We are doing this very consciously. Why should we at a check that gives more danger...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u125	The question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u126	You want me to finish him off?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u127	No, because otherwise we'll be here at 2:00 a.m. tonight. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u128	I myself started this morning at 10 a.m. and I am very happy to finish this short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u129	An interruption is short and concise and it was perfectly clear what you wanted. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u130	I really cannot follow that traffic checks and the ban on hard drugs would be comparable. Those are really two different quantities. Perhaps I should have taken another example, but Mrs Bergkamp's reasoning was that it is a reason to review drug policy if someone is using more illegal drugs. I indicated that I don't see any reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u131	The question is whether you should assume what is best for the health of the population. In flashes we say: don't, because it gives a dangerous situation. Checking hard at the entrance also poses more danger. That is why I asked the Minister whether we should not be consistent about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u132	No, I really cannot see that consequence in Mrs Van Tongeren's question. Mr Van Nispen asked whether suspects were given the information leaflet when they were arrested and whether they read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u133	No, if they get it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u134	That, of course, is also the point. The information leaflet has been extended and is given to everyone detained by the police. One can choose oneself whether one wants to go further in that direction. It says exactly what to do with it. Mr Van Nispen has asked about the pilot with lawyers at festivals. The evaluation of this pilot, in which lawyers were present at a number of pre-selected events to provide legal aid, has been completed very recently. The results will be discussed with the chain partners in the short term. It will be decided whether, and if so how, possible legal aid will be provided for at events in the future. Of course, this will also take into account the regular practice of legal aid at ZSM, because these events are often part of ZSM. An implementation plan is foreseen for this purpose in autumn 2016. Mr Van Nispen then asked about the trial in Breda with the ZSM location. I have already announced that one of the starting points in the cabinet response to the Wolfsen Committee's report on the structural organisation of legal aid in the context of the ZSM procedure is that suspects in cases for which pre-trial detention is permitted can only waive their right to consultation assistance in respect of their lawyer. So they can always talk to a lawyer. For this, lawyers will be stationed at all central ZSM locations in the Netherlands. The Chamber will be further informed on this matter. That brings me to the end of the legal aid block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u135	What Mr Van Nispen probably has a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u136	You saw that very well, Mr President. How long have we had ZSM? I think that's really been there for four, five maybe six years. To this day, the Minister still has the presence of an attorney, so putting a seat on it in the cases where the prosecutor himself does business, is not guaranteed and not funded. There have been all kinds of successful trials. The D.A. was satisfied with that and even asks for it. How come we still haven't settled this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u137	I believe that this question is no longer very closely linked to the initiative we are discussing here. The answer to that question has already been exchanged with Mr Van Nispen on many occasions. I have just indicated that I will inform the Chamber in the autumn about the ZSM method of operation and the pilot in this particular area. I think I've been complete with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u138	The Minister may run away from the question, but it has to do with the citizens' initiative. It is precisely about the situation that people get a D.A.'s decision without the presence of a lawyer. This can lead to problems, at events and at the central ZSM locations. The Minister said that a lawyer will be present at the central ZSM locations in the future. This has not yet been decided for the events and funding has not yet been settled. So I do not think the Minister should run away from this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u139	I repeat what I specifically said about this in my introductory speech: "In the meantime, the Public Prosecutor's Office is using as an implementing measure that, in cases where legal aid cannot be granted, no criminal order is imposed." Mr Van Nispen's point is therefore adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u140	It's just factually wrong what the Minister says. Yes, there can no longer be paid, then there can no longer be paid directly. That is what I said in my speech. That is a good development, but the presence of a lawyer is still not standardized. However, if the Minister does not want to answer my question, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u141	I have made it very clear that through the pilots, via ZSM, through the Wolfsen Committee, we have worked on legal aid in all possible ways. I'm committed to careful processes. I am committed to giving clear answers. I'm gonna do it like I've discussed and agreed with the Chamber many times. I come to the harmfulness of drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u142	It may well be that the Minister did not expect a question on this point, but I do ask that question because the citizens' initiative notes something about that lawyer. The Minister should not blame me for asking about this. I believe that we have had ZSM for six years, but the standard presence of the lawyer is still not structurally guaranteed and financed. The Minister may say that he wants careful trials, but I do not think they should last six years. That is why I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u143	That's fine. I believe that I have given a very clear answer to this too. At ZSM we work with regular lawyers. It makes no sense for Mr Van Nispen to table a motion on this matter. I have answered this very clearly, but I do not think Mr Van Nispen intended to listen to that answer. If he wishes to table a motion, I am fine with that, but I have made it very clear what the policy of the Public Prosecutor and the government is on the issue of lawyers at ZSM. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked why ecstasy is on list I, the hard drug list. Before a drug is placed on one of the lists of the Opium Act, a risk analysis is carried out by a committee of experts. This also happened for ecstasy. This analysis shall take into account, inter alia, the risk to individual users and the extent of their use. On the basis of that expert analysis, ecstasy is qualified as a hard drug. That's why it's on list I. Mrs Van Tongeren then asked about the RIVM report. The figures of RIVM are of course known to me and I certainly do not dispute them. The fact that alcohol and tobacco are at the top does not mean that ecstasy is without risk. The extent and severity of the health incidents due to xtc use have increased in recent years, not only because people may be allergic to it, but also because there may be overheating due to xtc use. Mrs Bergkamp asked if the government is prepared to increase the capacity of test sites. The establishment of test sites on the site itself obviously has something curious in it. On the one hand, all festivals try to prevent people with drugs from entering the festival grounds. There are tough measures regarding the amount of drugs that you could possibly have to the maximum. If there are test locations at a festival, this is a choice that municipalities or municipalities can make together with the event organizer. Then we have the testing capacity of the successful Drugs Information and Monitoring System (DIMS), which is being expanded. This will increase the visibility of the extra-risk drugs. It is an important instrument because we know in this way that the ecstasy has become increasingly dangerous in recent years. The cabinet is also currently examining the possibility of extending the prevention function of the DIMS. Recently, a letter was sent to municipalities to stay in consultation with each other and to remind municipalities of various prevention measures and interventions. I give this answer on behalf of the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u144	I am pleased that the Minister says that it is being considered whether the existing possibilities of the DIMS can be extended. The Secretary of State had already indicated that. Can this be brought to the attention of the public a little more actively? For example in Zeeland and Rotterdam there are no possibilities. In Amsterdam there is too little capacity and there are also waiting lists. Jellinek can hardly handle it. Are these bottlenecks also being identified and resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u145	I repeat what I have just said: the cabinet is currently examining the possibility of extending the prevention function of DIMS. That is the answer to Mrs Bergkamp's second question. In response to the first question, I have just said that a letter on this matter has recently been sent to the municipalities to continue to consult each other and to draw the attention of municipalities to various prevention measures and interventions. There are therefore two elements: capacity expansion and information provision. I have just said it in the first part of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u146	Fine. When will the Chamber get an overview of what came out of that inventory at the municipality? Where is it being extended and where is it not? I think it would be very interesting for the Chamber to have an insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u147	That is certainly interesting, but the joke is that it is the responsibility of the municipalities themselves. Since it is a responsibility of the municipalities themselves, I would be surprised if the Secretary of State for Health is kept informed of it by municipality, let alone informed. If it's any different, I'll let Mrs Bergkamp know in second term. I estimate that the Secretary of State will not be informed, because there is no obligation for municipalities to share their local policies with anyone in the cabinet. I do not think that this information is available, but if that is different, then I will tell Mrs Bergkamp in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u148	I really don't think so. I believe that the Minister, but certainly the Secretary of State for Health, has an independent responsibility for the public health aspect. Anyway, this minister says he'll come back to it in the second term. If not, I'll try to get back to it in another meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u149	Mrs Bergkamp is always free to ask the Secretary of State himself directly. Mr. Chairman. That also answers Mrs Volp's questions on testing. I would like to make a technical comment on this. If you already opt for testing, you can only determine whether active ingredients such as MDMA are present, for example in the case of xtc, but not in what amount. You cannot determine the amount or dose of the active substance contained in it and what other harmful substances may be present in the pill. That actually means that the potential user, especially when testing on location, still doesn't know where he is, except that he knows if there is MDMA in the pill. At a DIMS test site, drugs can be tested through laboratory tests. That happens in a very different way. For example, the user or potential user is informed in a quiet environment. When testing on location there is therefore never the guarantee that a pill is safe. Moreover, any human body can react differently to ecstasy, but that is well known to everyone, also thanks to Sprays and Swallows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u150	It is good that the Minister nuances it, but on the other hand we also know that the possibility of testing itself already works preventively. So I can imagine that, despite the limited possibilities of a test site on a festival site, offering a test, precisely because of its preventive effect, does fit within the discouragement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u151	That's one way of thinking about it. Of course, it's still crazy, because possession of drugs is a criminal offence anyway. Therefore testing on the dance floor does not really relate to the strict control at the entrance. After all, it is intended not to bring the drugs in. So it would mean that there is actually some kind of reward: if you manage to smuggle drugs in somehow, you can have them tested. That's an anomaly that at least seems strange to me. It is without prejudice to the fact that I have indicated that it is not up to the government to judge municipalities or event organizers who wish to make their own choices in common. Mrs Bergkamp has made her own proposal. It was in the news this morning, and that was funny to read. It was written in such a way that it seemed that the debate had already taken place. That was soon adapted, but I thought for a moment: "Hey, how nice. I don't need it tonight, because the debate has already been over." My reaction was already there and that is a special incident. We have the debate, to my great pleasure, fortunately. Mrs Bergkamp proposes to take three pills as a user quantity. I believe that this is in line with what Mr Hofman proposed to me at the time, but it is also possible that he proposed two pills. I had a good discussion with him on this at the time, because whether it is one, two, three or four pills, there will always be a discussion about that one extra pill. It will always be said: "I may have three, but I had four. Yeah, that was for my girlfriend and so it's actually still for your own use." Wherever you set the line, you always get to argue. That is why we have opted for the current system. There is a directive from the Public Prosecutor's Office, which states that one pill is the user quantity. On the basis of local considerations, this can be done on a custom basis. It is also used very occasionally. All in all, it is very clear policy and that means that everyone knows where they stand. Therefore, I see no reason to increase that user quantity. If I did, the discussion would immediately burst on the fourth pill or on the third pill if we chose two pills. Then we will continue to do so, and I therefore propose that we stick to the policy that is now in place. I also have considerable support for this by a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u152	I was also a little disappointed that I could read the Minister's response in a message, but that's how things sometimes go. In itself, they have made a good assessment, I think, because in fact it is quite correct. I think it's a bit of a weird discussion. The Minister says it's clear to everyone. So it's not. It depends on which region you go to a party in and to which party. Sometimes one already takes action, sometimes five; I mention, for example, ADE in Amsterdam. So I'm talking about a sense of reality. One, two or three pills are obviously not a trading stock. I understand the VVD's plea, which says: take on the traders, who make really large quantities available. But a few pills aren't a trading stock, are they? Surely we must dare to be realistic about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u153	We are also very real about this. The D.A.'s office also has clear manuals on it. It assumes that in some circumstances, for example, more than ten pills are a trading stock. Then there's always criminal prosecution. In between it is chosen for customization. It is precisely the D.A.'s mission to continue to deliver custom-made products. In the event that someone is found with more than one pill, it may also be the third time that he has that amount of pills. So you can never say that someone who is found with more than one pill is not a dealer. It could be a dealer who's been back and forth three times and successfully smuggled pills in from the outside. It's all possible. We are therefore very clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u154	It's not that obvious. It really depends on which region you come to and on which party. The advantage of the proposal that D66 made today, I think that three pills will make everyone aware of what they are up to. Three pills don't give you a criminal record and no prosecution. If you communicate that widely, it is clear to everyone, but now it depends on the circumstances or on the party or the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u155	This too will be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u156	I said what I said about it. Then I come to Mrs Volp, who pleads for the warning. A number of spokesmen have already responded to this. We do not know the system of warning in Dutch criminal law. Failure to prosecute a user quantity ensures that a simple user runs a very limited risk of sanctioning. In fact, every time a person is found with that amount and it is taken away, it is actually standard.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, there is no reason to introduce a warning into our legal system. Mr Van Helvert asked whether the Netherlands is not entirely on the wrong road. He's on the other spectrum of the Chamber. In fact, the CDA believes that the government should change policy and that this allowed user quantity should not be there at all. In my view, it is very important that the government has set out the direction it intends to take in the policy vision of drug prevention. We want to ensure better support for parents and better information for young people. The hand-off Drugs and alcohol at events, the funding of the Celebrate Safe campaign, the expansion of the DIMS' capacity, they are all measures that prevent the normalization of the use of hard drugs. That is also what Mr Van Helvert is calling for. I will support him in that. I have one more point to make. I might have just given the impression that there could be testing at parties and festivals themselves. That is not the case. This requires an opium waiver, which is not granted because of the limited possibilities for carrying out these tests carefully, as I have just understood. What can be done is that municipalities decide to create an additional test possibility in a different way than through the usual authorities, but that is then outside festivals or parties. That brings me to the end of my answer. All things considered, I note that there is really no reason for the concerns put forward in the citizens' initiative. With regard to the quantity of users, there is a clear policy which, as I see it, is supported by the majority of the Chamber. It is very important to ensure that young people know that they can be eligible for a vote, even if they are faced with a decision on penalties on this particular point, and that there is always tailor-made work on this issue, including in the interests of young people. If an offence or a criminal offence has been committed in the past, it does not necessarily mean that it has been committed, and in many cases it does not mean that there is no vog. We all recognise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u157	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. In any case, I have heard Mr Van Nispen announce a motion, so there is a second deadline for the Chamber, which does not necessarily require everyone to take part. I can see from the main signs that some people do. Since there is no need for a suspension, I give the floor immediately to Mrs Van Tongeren, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the citizens' initiative "One pill too much does not make a criminal" has more than 40,000 signatories;]] [[Whereas a marginal offence may have consequences for obtaining or maintaining a statement of conduct;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a first conviction for a small amount of drugs for its own use does not create any obstacle to obtaining a vog,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the active substance in ecstasy, MDMA, is currently on list I of the Opium Act and is therefore classified as drugs with an unacceptable risk;]] [[Whereas more and more studies show that the health risks associated with the use of MDMA are less serious than was initially assumed;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent scientific study of the health risks associated with the use of MDMA and to determine on the basis of these risks on the list of MDMA and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34433-3]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34433-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u159	You want MDMA in full?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u160	We're not gonna do that. Thank you very much. I see that Mr Van Helvert does not need a second term. Mrs Bergkamp does. But I now think that in the first term Mr Van Nispen preceded. We are keeping the same order as before, so Mr Van Nispen has the floor. If you're gonna make a mistake, you're gonna have to keep it up!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr. Chairman. I have already expressed my support in the first term, because my group does indeed believe that a first conviction for possession of a small amount of drugs should not be an obstacle to obtaining a vog. That is why I have just co-signed Mr Van Tongeren's motion. I'm here to talk about legal aid for the prosecution's criminal order. I'm gonna try again anyway. Yes, something has been improved in this area; I also pointed that out in the first term. You can't pay directly without a lawyer's assistance. That part of the citizens' initiative has therefore been met. However, there is still, in fact, a problem, because the availability and funding of the lawyer in the ZSM settlement by the D.A. has not yet been settled. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, following the successful pilot ZSM and legal assistance by the Minister of Security and Justice, it has been concluded that the ZSM procedure should be accompanied by adequate legal assistance to suspects;]] [[noting that this has been carried out by ensuring that lawyers will be present at the central ZSM locations in the future one or more daily parts;]] [[Whereas legal aid should also be available for events where ZSM is applied on site;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that not only those central ZSM locations, but also at events are lawyers available and given reasonable remuneration to ensure that legal aid is better guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Van Tongeren and Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34433-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u162	There's also an abbreviation here, ZSM. However, this does not only represent 'as soon as possible', but also eight other issues. I will not list them all here; this concept is also supposed to be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u163	Within your committee, yes. I can now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, which I read directly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the possession of more than one user quantity is now subject to criminal prosecution;]] [[noting that the objective of drug policy is to discourage and punish traders, while recreational use of hard drugs does not give rise to a priority of detection;]] [[Considers that the possession of three ecstasy pills does not give rise to a commercial quantity;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, to amend the Opium Act so that three xtc pills are considered as a user quantity, and in that case not to prosecute and make a note in the judicial documentation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34433-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u165	I now submit my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that knowledge about the composition of drugs contributes to reducing health risks;]] [[noting that not all provinces are now able to test drugs, whether testing sites are overcrowded;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the bottlenecks in testing capacity in the Netherlands, to identify them and to inform the Chamber of Health, Welfare and Sport on this matter for the budgetary treatment of Health, Welfare and Sport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Volp and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34433-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u166	I have one short question for the Minister: if you get caught with one pill, do you get a criminal record, or isn't it? That remains very unclear. The Minister says no, but our information shows that this is the case. I would like a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u167	I shall suspend the meeting until the Minister has been able to take note of the motions on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u168	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the government, I would like to express my thanks for this citizens' initiative, which has led to a good and interesting exchange of views today on certain aspects of the drugs policy that the Dutch Government is considering. It is good that such a debate is taking place, including for all those people who have watched. I therefore hope that the Sprays and Slikken programme will seize the opportunity to remove the prejudice over the vogs from its information function. Young people now think they can forget about ever getting a job or a vog, if they've ever done something that can't be done, if they've been punished or if they've somehow run into the light. I hope that this debate will at least have the positive effect that this influential programme will be prepared to pay attention to this. If Sprays and Slugs do, this has a huge impact on the youth and the young adults in the Netherlands. I think that goes for more things that Sprays and Swallows does. It would be very good if this prejudice could be eliminated once and for all thanks to Sprays and Slugs and this citizens' initiative. I therefore hope that the programmers will, in part, take home the gauntlet they have put down here. I hope they will discuss with their editors the possibility of doing something positive for young people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u169	So much for broadcasting for V and J! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u170	I am, of course, prepared to do so, at least that is what the Secretary of State will do in order to bring this particular point to the attention of the programme itself, even though the comments I made on my performance at the last time in the programme, at least via the video, were not very positive. But that aside, I was allowed to make a pleasant contribution! Mrs Volp has asked whether we know in any way how many vogs are refused on the basis of drug offences. We don't know that; I told you I thought that. However, we do know how many vogs were refused in total in 2015: 0.35%. Only 0.30% of all young people under 23 who have applied for a vog have been refused. All over 2015 it was about 553 refusals of a dog. I can give Mrs Volp those figures. Ms Bergkamp asked if municipalities would also report back to the State Secretary for Health on how they will process the prevention and information information. No, VWS isn't getting that information reported back. So the Secretary of State can't do that either. Mrs Bergkamp also asked about the one pill. It actually works exactly as Mrs Bergkamp suggested for three pills, but with one pill. One pill is punishable, because hard drugs are punishable, but there will be no prosecution because one pill is in principle included in the amount of users. There is therefore no tolerance or legal amount of hard drugs. Hard drugs are hard drugs. They're forbidden. One pill is seized, but does not lead to criminal prosecution. Of course it will be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u171	I know, but my question was whether someone with one pill gets a criminal record, a record in the judicial documentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u172	No, that can only be done if there is some kind of succession. There isn't one. One pill does not lead to a record in the judicial documentation. I'm getting to the motions. In the motion in part No. 3 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Van Nispen, the government is called upon to ensure that a first conviction for a small amount of drugs for their own use does not create any obstacle to obtaining a vog. We have had an extensive debate on it. In this general form, I have no choice but to discourage the motion. There is a clear policy to ensure that young people can also benefit from a vog, but there is always a tailor-made approach. That means that this motion must be discouraged. In the motion in part No. 4 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Bergkamp for a scientific study on MDMA. I have already said that research is being carried out on a very regular basis. Mrs Van Tongeren says that ecstasy is becoming less and less dangerous, but we see exactly the opposite. Xtc is getting heavier and therefore more dangerous. We know a lot about products like MDMA. There's been scientific research into whether it's a hard drug and that's confirmed. It's been on list I ever since. So there is no other way but to discourage this motion. I suspected the motion in part no. 5 by Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Bergkamp. I have explained very clearly what the government's policy is with regard to ZSM and legal aid, whether or not by criminal decisions. I also explained about the pilot at events. The motion assumes that it would no longer be interesting or relevant to discuss these pilots in the context of the ZSM policy, Wolfsen and so on. That means I have to discourage the motion. In the autumn we will simply come up with the policy we have talked about. One possibility is that Mr Van Nispen will continue the motion, but I leave it to him to do so. If the motion is put to the vote, I would advise against it. In the motion in part No. 6 by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Van Tongeren are asked to allow three ecstasy pills. We've talked about that extensively. I must discourage the motion, because it is contrary to cabinet policy. Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution on item No. 7 by Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Volp and Mrs Van Tongeren. It calls for the identification of bottlenecks in test capacity in the Netherlands. I have already shared with the Chamber what the U.S. Secretary of State has said about this. There's no reason to do this anymore. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I would like to thank Members and, in particular, the initiators of the citizens' initiative for the opportunity to have this debate. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u173	We have thus reached the end of the second term on the part of the cabinet. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given, I thank Members for their commitment to this debate and, of course, I thank those who have submitted the citizens' initiative. I propose that we vote on the motions next Tuesday.
