ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The European Union wants to draw more and more power towards it. This also applies to the important point of border surveillance. The PVV wants the Netherlands to control its own borders and that no powers are transferred to the European Union in this respect. This is a serious damage to our country's sovereignty. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, never to agree to proposals that can give the power to guard its own Dutch borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-390]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	The motion was tabled earlier, but it became clear this morning during the consultation with the Secretary of State that the need to do so again has unfortunately not disappeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	I note that the Secretary of State can reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. The motion was filed earlier. I have tried to explain to Mr Fritsma that in the end there is always a choice for a Member State, including with the new proposal. If one Member State makes a mess of its border control, it can lead to the other countries saying: now we are going to help you and here is the plan. Mr Fritsma was particularly concerned about a possible situation in which the Netherlands is making a mess of it first and then being corrected. I have also tried to explain to him that a country can always refuse to do so, but that it will probably have to leave Schengen from the other countries. That seems to me to be a logical consequence. I couldn't convince him to do that. I'll bring you subtitles next time. Maybe it'll work. That is why I find the motion superfluous and I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	There's no need for subtitles. The PVV prefers yesterday rather than today from Schengen; let that be clear. This is, of course, better achieved with less Europe than with more Europe. We have received many promises from among others the Prime Minister. I just read them again. There really are ten: rather less Europe, rather no more delegation of powers and so on. The cabinet is creating more Europe, which is completely against all promises. Why do you have to do this? That is my only question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	We strengthened and strengthened our economic power by sharing external borders and removing internal borders. In addition, each Member State is closely guarding its share of these common external borders. We see that not every Member State accepts its responsibility. In the current system you can either ask nicely a few times or say to such a country: you have to get out. The only thing that comes up now is that if one Member State fails to comply with its obligations and harms other Member States, the other Member States can say: either we are going to guard the borders for you or it is the end of the deal. I told Mr Fritsma this morning that there is no question of losing power over guarding your borders. However, there is the possibility to impose restrictions because of the non-monitoring and maladministration of your borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr Fritsma, you may intervene only if it concerns the motion, because we are not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	It has, because we know the EU. If you give the EU a means to gain more power, it will get worse and worse. The Secretary of State is cooperating in this. In principle, there can be a situation in which the Netherlands simply gets a border agency to take over the surveillance of borders against its own will. That's impossible, isn't it? In principle alone, it is not right. As a matter of principle, you should not want to violate the sovereignty of our country. That is the point of principle. The Secretary of State has a lot of explaining to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	In any case, I am pleased to note that Mr Fritsma has very high expectations of the strength of the European Union. There are people who doubt that these days. He was talking about gaining extra power. If there is such a plan in the end, a country can say: I will not accept it; I will not do it; I will reject the operational plan. All I have said is that it makes sense for me to say that you no longer want to be part of that club, of Schengen, and that the other Member States will then say: it is either this or out. I don't think that's a crazy idea, but if you're gonna make a mess of your border patrol, you're gonna reserve the right to move on alone and keep making a mess of it. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	We are going to vote on the motion this evening.
