ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bontes of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u2	Mr. Chairman. Total untrustworthyness. This VVD prime minister is soaked with it. He has for seven months ignored the voice of his own people, the opinion of millions of Dutch people. First, he would decide before the summer, then after the referendum on the Brexit, and then after the EU summit at the end of June. Eventually, the Chamber had to set the deadline on November 1st. But we still don't know anything. The whole process is a complete mockery of Dutch democracy. Not only is there slowing down, it is also being manipulated. According to Prime Minister Rutte, this was only a simple trade agreement, but now he states that the world will burn if the Netherlands does not ratify. It's the Prime Minister's pure scaremongering. His actions are totally unworthy of the office. Despite the fact that every time the cabinet says that justice should be done to the no vote, it admits that the intended declaration to the Treaty does not change anything at all. This Prime Minister despises the Dutch electorate. The worst part is, he's gonna do it, too. The strategy of this cabinet is working. The CDA and D66 will go through the pump willingly. The distrust of politics continues to grow. VNL says no is no; no ratification. How simple can it be! We no longer have any confidence in this democracy-hating cabinet. I shall therefore table the next motion in the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u3	It concerns the submission of a motion in the first term. I take it there is no objection to that. To Mr Buma, who is now coming in, I say welcome. Proceed, Mr. Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u4	We would like to have a roll-call vote on this motion right away. Let's do it right away. We don't have any trust anymore. Let's vote right away. There's no need for that charade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u5	I'll take a look at the MPs first. It is customary for a debate to take place and for colleagues to be given the opportunity to make their views known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u6	As far as D66 is concerned, this motion may be put to the vote and there is no objection to it being tabled. As far as I am concerned, this Chamber is quickly full and we are going to vote by roll call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u7	This is a bizarre situation, but it is also a bizarre commitment by Mr Bontes, so come on through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u8	It is bizarre that the Prime Minister leaves people in uncertainty for seven months. That's weird!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u9	No, no, no, Mr. Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u10	I apologize for coming in a little later...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u11	You were on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u12	...and now this is the first thing I'm going through. If Mr Bontes wishes to table a motion of censure in the first term, he must do so in particular. I do not know if he would like to participate in the debate afterwards, but as far as I am concerned, we will then have a substantive debate on the letter from the government. I therefore believe that we should vote as soon as possible and proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u13	It is quite bizarre indeed to do so without any kind of discussion. We should probably just vote on it directly, but I think we should discuss it in the political groups first if we still need a discussion or a debate afterwards. I suggest that we take a moment to discuss this in our groups. Half an hour should be enough for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u14	No objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u15	I also propose that we do this as soon as possible, but I would also like to have half an hour to discuss briefly, as Mr Ten Broeke said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u16	It is customary for a ruler, in this case the Prime Minister, to be able to respond to what is on the agenda. So I would find it as neat and chic if we did this in the order that we have always agreed with each other. I would therefore like to continue the debate. So no support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u17	As far as I am concerned, there is no support either. I find it unusual to put forward a motion of censure in an initial period and not to give the government the opportunity to reply. We have the use of voting at the end of such a debate. In order not to pursue the normal debate, I do not like it. So no support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u18	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. It is good to have an orderly debate first. Then the arguments can be exchanged. At the end of the debate, we can work towards this. I would therefore urge Mr Bontes to allow this debate to take place first. He is the first speaker and can therefore table that motion in the second term, but allow colleagues to make their own contribution as well. Then we have a decent debate and then we can finish it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u19	I'm going for a debate. So that means that no support for this proposal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u20	Mr Bontes is now depriving the Prime Minister of the opportunity to repent of his enormous sins. Anyway, he's realistic. So are we. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we shall continue with the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u21	So support for the vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u22	It is very unusual to table a motion of censure in the first term. I do not think I have experienced this before, but apart from that, the Rules of Procedure allow it. I would like to have the vote as soon as possible, but with a short suspension of half an hour. After that, we can just have the debate quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u23	My group would like to start with the debate and then vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u24	I'd like to start with the debate and then vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u25	There is a majority in favour of the motion tabled by Mr Bontes, but also for the suspension of half an hour before we vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u26	I'm having second thoughts. I am in favour of voting as soon as possible, but suspending for half an hour is a waste of time. Then I would say: let us do the first term and then we will vote immediately afterwards. Maybe that's a little more efficient. I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I like the other thing, too, but I think this is working a little bit more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u27	We're gonna go for a new round. I'll get a new piece of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u28	I agree with Mr Buma's proposal in itself. Let's do it this way in view of time. I do not think Mr Bontes is really going to change his mind anymore. That motion will therefore have to be put to the vote, but let us not wait half an hour. Let us do the first time, then the motion and then move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u29	For the sake of clarity, you want to finish the first term, then vote and then move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u30	I'm following Buma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u31	Support for Mr Buma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u32	This is separate from the debate here. We have made proper agreements in this Parliament. If we start to do this, it will have a precedent for any other current debate. Each party will then table a motion of censure and then we will have this kind of debate. I therefore appeal to all parties to simply maintain that order: a decent first term, the reaction of the cabinet and then a second term. Let's just stick to that, because before you know it, a party submits a motion of censure every week in this way. We have a proper order for this; let us maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u33	So no support for Mr Bontes' proposal, but no support for Mr Buma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u34	I appeal to the other parties to think again about this, because the precedent that this is based on is enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u35	I fear that this is no longer entirely new, but parliamentary hygiene is also worth something to me. I believe that Mr Buma's proposal meets this requirement: simply finish the first deadline and then put Mr Bontes' proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u36	I too agree with Mr Buma's proposal. I think that's the most convenient way, even to get this a little smooth in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u37	It is logical that Mr Bontes does not have confidence, but we must finish the first term. Then we can see what we're doing with that. Then we'll put that motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u38	Support for Mr Buma's proposal, but I assume that we will not get a response from the Prime Minister before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u39	Yeah, that's exactly the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u40	Yeah, that's what's bothering me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u41	Let me get this straight. Mr Bontes wants to vote on the motion right away. The proposal, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Kuzu, Mr Voordewind, is a central one. Mr Buma's proposal is to complete and vote on the first deadline. So that means no answer in the government's first term. Did I understand you so well, Mr Buma? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u42	Let's face it, this is a charade. I really do, if you're gonna work this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u43	You're playing charade. The CDA does that. Your senators do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u44	No, Mr. Bontes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u45	Fine. Of course, all true, Mr Bontes, but I would like to say this. We can then very neatly ask the Prime Minister for a judgment, but I do not, quite frankly, need his judgment to reach a judgment on my own. My judgment will not be that I follow Mr Bontes. I do not need a group meeting for that, and I do not need a Prime Minister's opinion. We shouldn't be doing this. It's being asked. The vote and then the content of a debate that is important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u46	So Mr Buma's proposal is that we complete the first term as a Chamber and then vote on Mr Bontes' motion, then we look at the second term. Clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u47	I object to that. It is only natural that, if we invite the Prime Minister here for a debate, we bring in our contributions here, and it is not just a motion of censure: it is a debate on content, and that there will first be an answer from the Cabinet to what has been said here before we put the motion of censure to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u48	Let's have the debate first. Then everyone's been able to give their opinion. Then we'll vote. That's always the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u49	After the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u50	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u51	I'm gonna see if there's a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u52	I would also like to start with the whole debate and vote only then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u53	We're counting, too. There's a majority...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u54	Mr President, I asked one more question, but I agree with Mr Buma's proposal, so we are going to do the first time and we are going to vote immediately afterwards. Then the Members who may be outside this house will know that there will be a vote and they will be able to come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u55	On second thought, I agree with Mr Buma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u56	The proposal is therefore to keep the first term of office and then to vote. Then we get the government's answer in the first term, followed by the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u57	One more thing. If, for the sake of order, you want the Prime Minister's opinion on this particular motion, that is fine with me. But I don't need to. As far as I'm concerned, we can just vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u58	If it is a motion of censure, then the Prime Minister does not have to judge it. It's up to the room. A majority is in favour of holding the first term of office. Then we'll vote on the motion. We shall then proceed with the debate. Thank you very much, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u59	My position is clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u60	Just a minute. The microphone's off. And you have to recite your motion, because I need to see if there is sufficient support for its submission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u61	Yes, I do. That's what I'm gonna do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[says confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u62	Mr. Chairman. It is more than seven months after the referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine. A large majority of 61% voted against the Treaty. The turnout was over 32%. This makes the execution of the result simple: the government must send a repeal law to the Chamber as soon as possible. The House also asked for this in the first debate: no is no, the treaty must be removed. Why is this crystal clear statement not being carried out? The answer is simple: because the Prime Minister does not want it. That's why he's now twisting himself into all sorts of corners to get away from this. He really takes everything out of the closet to get other parties involved. I make one simple request: follow the outcome of the referendum and throw that treaty in the trash. Many people are rightly furious about the way things are going. We soon saw the Prime Minister bet on a delay tactic. He would have preferred to take the whole thing over the election, but that went too far for the Chamber. We then had to wait for the Brexirefementum, but that also yielded little. The Prime Minister, in his despair, came up with all sorts of crooked reasonings, including the reasoning that if we don't ratify, the other 27 countries will simply continue with the treaty. It doesn't matter. The Netherlands has said no, so implement it. We also had to learn that the Prime Minister had never played the referendum high in Brussels and that he had not put forward a concrete proposal. That's a straight shot by the voter. The Chamber then forced the Prime Minister to come up with a solution by 1 November at the latest. We now know that the Prime Minister doesn't either. This is a real mess! Does the Prime Minister recognise that he does not take the Chamber and the people at all seriously? The result of the referendum is quite clear: the treaty must be removed. But the Prime Minister now wants to make a statement instead, with some self-chosen points. It is reminiscent of the referendum on the European Constitution, after which the flag and the national anthem were removed. You ask the people for advice, the people say no, you change a few points and commas, and then you pretend to take the voice of the people seriously. That's pure hypocrisy! Does the Prime Minister recognise that this kind of shit undermines democracy? Does the Prime Minister realize that this way of working will widen the gap between citizens and politics? I appeal to those parties who, like the SP, have set themselves in principle on the 'no is no' line. In April, this was the case for the entire opposition, including D66 and the CDA. But the Labour Party also spoke clear language prior to the referendum. Both party chairman Spekman and party leader Samsom said no is no. Three letters! I am counting on these parties to maintain their views, for the sake of the credibility of democracy. Don't go with the Prime Minister. Make sure your party remains credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u63	Mr. Chairman. In April of this year, a majority of voters opposed the association agreement with Ukraine. That was a disappointing outcome for the VVD group, because we believe that this agreement is good for the Netherlands and for Europe. The interests involved in this association agreement were not taken up in a simple yes or no. These interests affect not only our security and stability, but also our prosperity, given the trade interests associated with this treaty, which is largely a trade treaty. It is our duty as representatives of the people to take account of all these interests in an opinion that is being delivered to us. However, the VVD does not ignore the concerns of the no-voters: the fear that this agreement would be a stepping stone to Ukraine's EU membership, that this agreement would require the Netherlands to cooperate in military matters, that this agreement would make a bag of money available for Ukraine or that we would import a stream of workers or corruption with this agreement. The VVD has always said, both before and after the referendum, that this treaty also serves another important objective, namely stability at the external borders of Europe. Russia has annexed part of a country to our external border and unleashed a destabilising war in Eastern Ukraine. We want Ukraine to be a buffer between Russia and Europe. This agreement contributes to this. It contributes to the security and stability of our country and of Europe. We, and no one else, are dealing with the question of who we are concluding this kind of agreement with. It's called sovereignty. If we simply wipe the agreement off the table, we will show Russia that Europe is unable to form a strong block. With that weakness, the Russians know what to do. We show that we are vulnerable, both in terms of our economic interests and our security. And that is exactly what Russia is after. I'm not making that up. Anyone following Russia's military doctrine can only come to that conclusion. Their primary goal is to break us up in NATO and EU contexts. For the VVD, NATO and the EU are still our best guarantees for the security and prosperity of the Netherlands. We do not respond to aggression with aggression, but with intransigence; intransigence about what we stand for ourselves. That's the only language the Russians understand. As a Dutch representative of the people, I would not be worth a slap in the face if I did not take these interests into account in the opinion given to us on 6 April. That's my job. I believe that this is the task of all of us. We in the VVD Group therefore support the efforts of our Prime Minister, who also wants to do justice to the no, but does not lose sight of the political and geopolitical interests. That's why we're giving him the room. That's what I said in April, and that's what I'm saying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u64	Mr. Chairman. In a democracy, there is no higher authority than that of the electorate and those of the elected representatives who have promised to respect the outcome of an interim consultation of the electorate. Any swing, any goat path that is sought to do anything other than what the voters wanted, is adversely affecting our democracy. It is also contrary to the interests the Prime Minister claims to want to defend. The Prime Minister didn't meet the deadline of 1 November. If the Chamber takes itself seriously, it cannot accept the re-negotiation of a mandate. The majority of the Chamber has promised to respect the outcome. The first re-negotiation already caused a serious breach of confidence with the citizen. A second renegotiable mandate is impossible. Threats about Russian bears that would have been awakened from their hibernation, which would require a signature, are forms of political theatre. It is hard for the Prime Minister to call the Russian bear a decisive reason for signing the Ukraine Treaty. The same Prime Minister is running the fire to turn the Netherlands into a gas roundabout for Russian natural gas. If you don't want to be dependent, stop buying gas from the Russian bear. That helps. That doesn't help, but a free trade agreement with Ukraine doesn't. We've heard terms and threats around treaties before. May I recall what Minister Brinkhorst and then Prime Minister Balkenende said in 2005? A vote against the European Constitution would be detrimental to the Netherlands in the long term. They said: in the long run, the lights will go out in the Netherlands and we will lock our country. In their view, Europe would not become a superstate, because the European Parliament would have more powers. It would be more democratic. After 11 years, the opposite turned out to be true. Balkenende warned against the consequences of a 'no' to the European Constitution. In his view, it was naive to think that a no would lead to new negotiations with a better outcome. I quote: 'Those other countries will say: you have achieved this now, you have not achieved your referendum, then you have to sit on the blisters'. A legally binding declaration to such a free trade agreement is nothing more than a lightning rod for domestic use. With money from Dutch banks and credit insurers, huge megasthals were made possible in Ukraine, the most corrupt country in Europe. This free trade agreement is not going to erase this scandal, it is going to make it bigger. The Ukraine Treaty, like CETA and TTIP, makes the situation worse. The Treaty deserves nothing but a proper repeal law. Is the issue of the Ukraine Treaty a bigger issue than the Netherlands alone? If there is anything bigger than ourselves, that is our democracy that deserves protection from trade agreements with corrupt countries such as Ukraine. Whoever claims to be afraid of a Russian bear who would have been awakened from hibernation does well not to seek confrontation, but to avoid it. Governing is forward-looking. Ignore is sticking the head in the sand. In this context, too, I believe that we must put an end to the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u65	Mr. Chairman. For seven months and two days, Prime Minister Rutte has been stuck in the Ukraine file between The Hague and Brussels. After all the broken promises to do justice to the voter's voice, he is now taking another six weeks to get the Association Treaty between the European Union and Ukraine ratified, even though 61% of the elected voters voted against in the referendum on 6 April. After a desperate process of ignoring the voter's counter-vote by interpreting the no-vote himself, the Prime Minister thinks he can still succeed. On Monday, he announced this in his letter to the House of Representatives. It intends to be able to obtain support from the other 27 Member States for a legally binding supplement to the Treaty which responds to the objections of the no-voters. But those objections have been expressed by the Prime Minister, not by us or by the electorate. Because the voter only wanted one thing: no to the association agreement! For that appendix, that appendix, the Prime Minister really finds a majority in the Dutch Parliament, as far as we are concerned, with the arguments sought. Those are arguments that did not play any role in the seven months and two days before. The position of D66 and of the CDA's Eerste Kamergroep is crucial. There is no deal with the other parties, emphasizes the Prime Minister, but he still thinks there is a good chance that the Second and First Chambers will agree to such an adjustment. What does the Prime Minister base that trust on? Why does he think D66 was turned? D66 was once the party to the referendum. How did the Prime Minister get D66 to do this? After all, we are talking about the party that was extremely armed in this. From the very beginning, D66 said that as a first step, the cabinet should implement Article 11 of the Referendum Act as soon as possible and therefore send a repeal law to the Chamber. Which CDA senators were sensitive to the geopolitical arguments that the Prime Minister is suddenly throwing into battle? Will the Prime Minister share that with us? For we sincerely do not understand the latest geopolitical arguments. We don't think the Prime Minister himself understands it either. He has never brought the weight of the association agreement to his attention in this way. In fact, we all remember the incantations of the government, at the very beginning of this disgusting process, that the association agreement was a trade agreement. There were so many of them, with South America and so on. This week, the Treaty was promoted by the Prime Minister to a treaty by which we call or hold back the Armageddon over us. Scared of the purest kind. The disarray is getting worse with every subsequent debate. The inconsistency in the argumentation becomes more embarrassing with each debate. From one of many trade agreements without further consequences to a treaty that would be important for stopping vacuum bombs on Aleppo and restraining Putin's aggression at the EU's eastern border. It is not to your credit, Prime Minister, that you are now placing the responsibility for war and peace on the sign of the no-thumb. It is utterly embarrassing that you are burdening the no-thumb with these arguments, which you, as far as I am concerned, are dragging on in your desperation. That is the Prime Minister's implicit message: if you want to express the result of the referendum, the no vote, you will destabilise the eastern borders of the Union and then all the consequences will be on the sign of the "no' voter. It's all your fault, the Prime Minister says. I think that's shameful politics. We say that the geopolitical relations the Prime Minister spoke of on Friday do not play any role for the electorate. Failure to ratify is the only outcome that the referendum allows. All those no-voters have had only one goal in mind with their no-vote: no association agreement with Ukraine, in any way. Locking up. The treaty needs to be cancelled. That's the result of April 6th. That is the view of the Dutch electorate. That's what 61% voted. No is no. Do not damage our parliamentary democracy further than you have already done. Remember that those 61% no-voters will not settle for any variant on "no is no." Submit a repeal law, yet. Show yourself a leader of this country at last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u66	Mr. Chairman. More than seven months ago, the Netherlands was asked: are you for or against the law approving the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine? The Christian Union Group is against Ukraine's accession to Europe, but for cooperation and hence for the Association Treaty. It is also clear that we are not in favour of the consultative referendum. In this we have once again been confirmed by the aftermath of the Ukraine referendum. This referendum also says something about the functioning of our referendum law. The evaluation is there. We are going to talk about this later, but I hope that the progress of this referendum will lead to a further reflection of the parties who voted in favour of this law at the time. But the referendum has taken place, the turnout threshold has been reached and a "no" has sounded. That no-vote of the Dutch people expressed the feeling of growing discomfort about the European Union; a boundless European Union, which does not deliver if it has to deliver if it does not. This inconvenience is now also felt by the choices made by the cabinet following the outcome of the referendum. The referendum law is clear: we need to clarify ratification or not ratification as soon as possible. The Prime Minister added a third option: we're gonna wait and we're gonna talk. So the ball is still in the cabinet. The cabinet now opts for a postponement and for a longer ambiguity, which has been going on for seven months. The cabinet is aware of the impatience and writes that this difficult process leads to a general feeling of displeasure which must be removed as soon as possible, as stated in the letter. If that is the same "as soon as possible" as from the referendum law, I ask the Prime Minister. In other words: is that clarity indeed at the end of this year? Ignoring the no vote will cause democratic damage and that will undermine confidence in politics. At the same time, we say that geopolitical interests also play a role. But why does the Prime Minister now come up with these arguments, which we have not heard before the referendum? Why is it suddenly a matter of national importance? The cabinet is still looking for that goat path to do justice to the no vote and the geopolitical situation. As far as my group is concerned, it is essential that the final proposal of the cabinet should take account of the 'no' vote that sounded in April. We will therefore assess the final proposal of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u67	Mr. Chairman. My party has campaigned hard for a yes to the Ukraine referendum, unlike the cabinet. If the Prime Minister had shown anything of the urgency with which he suddenly came last week before 6 April, and just now at EenVandaag, it would have looked different. Unfortunately, however, it is only as international pressure rises and the Chamber imposes deadlines that the Prime Minister sees the consequences of his absence from the campaign and his delay. Only now he comes with emotional calls about the Russian vacuum bombs on Aleppo. Now suddenly it is not a trade treaty but a major geopolitical issue. This is striking for a Prime Minister who cheered the King on Putin and recently refused to impose sanctions on Russia in a European context, precisely because of those vacuum bombs. Only now does the Prime Minister see what we were campaigning for before 6 April: a strong Europe against a threat to Putin, a common fist against aggression in our backyard and a European response for all those demonstrators in Maidan Square. But we cannot ignore the fact that the outcome of the referendum was different from what we wanted: a clear no. D66 has always said to take the outcome of this referendum very seriously and to make it heavy. Whatever you think of the referendum and the result, the objections of the no-voters must be addressed. Not listening to those objections is simply not an option. I've been in all those rooms during the campaign, day in, day out. In the debates in those rooms with Mr Van Bommel, with Mr Baudet, with Jan Roos, with all kinds of people from the SP................................................................................................................................................................... These objections, which have always been raised, must therefore be met. On the basis of the referendum law, D66 would have preferred an early repeal law, after which the cabinet could have entered into consultation with the neekamp and with the other 27 Member States. We all know how things turned out: the cabinet didn't do that. That doesn't deserve a beauty prize. The Deputy Prime Minister also admitted that. In the meantime we are seven months further and the cabinet is still stalling. The Prime Minister recently indicated that he needed more time for a solution. For D66 at present, given this situation, two things are of interest. On the one hand, the cabinet must respond to the concerns of the no-voters in substance. On the other hand, Europe must not be broken up and we must not allow Putin to destabilise Ukraine and put security at the borders of Europe at risk. That is why we are giving the Prime Minister the time to come to a solution with the other Member States in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u68	The nice thing about D66 in April was that Mr Verhoeven said honestly: we lost the referendum and now we have to follow up on the outcome. The result was crystal clear: no to that treaty. Mr Verhoeven stood at the front and said: that treaty must be removed and that repeal law must now be tabled. Why was it turned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u69	Indeed, after the referendum, we fully admitted that we had lost the campaign. We have admitted that we have worked hard for another result, which has not been achieved. We then looked at our own referendum law. It says: "Come forward with a repeal law as soon as possible." D66 naturally supported Mr Van Dijk's motion, Mr Van Bommel. In fact, we wanted a law of withdrawal from the cabinet as soon as possible, after which the substantive solution could be started: consultation with the neekamp and consultation with the 27 other Member States. The Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister gave a negative opinion on this at the time. That motion didn't make it. Now we're seven months away. So now there is a different situation than then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u70	That's not strong, is it? Mr Verhoeven rightly refers to the Van Bommel motion, which supported D66. It calls for a repeal law to be filed as soon as possible. Mr Pechtold then tabled a motion: no later than 1 November, the cabinet must tell us what is happening. That motion will not be carried out either. Two motions are not being carried out and the result of the referendum is not being followed. What about Mr Verhoeven's credibility? It is precisely his party, once a great supporter of referendums, who is now taking the outcome of the referendum completely seriously. Do something about that, Mr Verhoeven!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u71	However much we supported the Van Bommel motion and supported the procedure of our own referendum law, namely to withdraw it first, then to proceed with the solution and then to consult with the Nokamp: that motion did not succeed. The fact that that motion was not carried out is disappointing according to D66, but the cabinet has been supported by PvdA and VVD, who then had a majority in this Chamber decided not to do so. That's when a trial started. The Prime Minister will say something about this later. It was all very difficult: he didn't get it on the agenda, there was a Brexit, there was all this stuff. At some point Alexander Pechtold filed a Chamberwide motion during the General Reviews. I was expecting the question a little bit, so I brought that motion with me. It simply reads: make sure that by November 2016 at the latest, you formulate an answer to the outcome of the referendum. The Prime Minister sent a letter to the Chamber and admitted that he was unable to do so. Thanks to that motion, it is now clear that something is going to happen and what is going to happen. The Prime Minister says he'll need six more weeks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u72	I find it striking that Mr Sjoerdsma is always smiling with his mouth when Mr Van Dijk is talking, such as: hahaha, there you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u73	That doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u74	I find that witnessing dedain, I find it extremely disturbing and I would ask Mr Sjoerdsma to refrain from doing so. We're in the middle of a debate here. You may speak later if you wish. Mr. Chairman. It could have been that Mr Verhoeven had taken a low profile, but of course he did not. He tweeted: as soon as possible a repeal law, then Rutte around the table with the neekamp. On Facebook he gave a detailed account of his own tough attitude. Now it's all very different. I should like to ask Mr Verhoeven the following. I'm a reformed boy, so I'm very good at reading the Bible and following a lot of sermons and stuff. I have a piece of text from my colleague, Mr Pechtold. In response to a journalist's question, "No is no more no?" He said: yes, but it depends on how you say no; you can get past the content no, or get out of the bus after which the bus continues; then no is yes. D66 is a very elitist party, which does an incredible amount of close reading. We are doing this a little less, so I would ask Mr Verhoeven to explain that to the 61% of the electorate, for whom he was so brave with the communication: we are going to respond to your vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u75	Mr Bertema's question contains many elements. At least he draws quite selectively from things I put on social media. In the tweets and on Facebook there's just a consistent story, just like I just kept it. After the referendum we found it based on the Referendum law the purest procedure to repeal the law and then... For the party of Mr Beertema, GeenStijl and the SP it is withdraw and ready. D66 never said that, never, nowhere, not on Twitter, not on Facebook, nowhere. We have said that withdrawal is the beginning of the search for a solution. The Prime Minister said we don't want to do that. I have just explained this to Mr Van Dijk. Now we're seven months away. Then you can keep talking about it all the time, but I don't use the word "crunching teeth" for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u76	I see the Prime Minister has left. He'll be right back, I suppose. We'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u77	There he is again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u78	If the Prime Minister walks away in the middle of an answer that I give to Mr Bertema, I will doubt what I say. That has always been our line. I have seen the SP in all those rooms and I have debated the reason for the no endlessly. I haven't even seen the PVV. The PVV has never been to the debates, the PVV hasn't been anywhere in the rooms, the PVV has at most been here in the Chamber shouting some things, as it always does. It has taken no responsibility, no commitment, no campaign: nothing at all. The PVV doesn't know what has been discussed in these rooms either. A lot of substantive things have emerged in these rooms, so no is no. Nobody in those rooms said no is no. Nobody. The only one who calls that is Mr Bertema, and he has never been in those rooms. The same applies to Mr Bontes. "No is no" is not the right answer. In other words, do something with the alleged membership that we are not in favour of; do something with the money that would go to Ukraine, which is not the result of the treaty; do something with military cooperation. And that is exactly what the Prime Minister has asked for six weeks to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u79	Apparently, I asked a good question, because if you're going to have to preach your bowls this way, I find that a little embarrassing. You can do better, Mr Verhoeven. You're not entirely telling the truth. On 14 April 2016, you say here that you can simply finish. You say, and here's the simple thing: the electorate has spoken, the treaty cannot go through, so submit the repeal law as soon as possible, consult with the neekamp and the EU Member States to see what the Netherlands... and so on. That was the order you kept at the time. Apparently, you've come to other insights in such a smoky D66 room. Facebook people don't know that, though, so if I were you, I'd put a message on Facebook tonight that you cheated on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u80	Mr Beertema stopped reading from my text of 13 April at exactly the time I would have liked him to read it. But then he stops again; that's too bad. I said at the time: to see what the Netherlands, Europe and Ukraine can do within the framework of this outcome. That's exactly the point. You can say all the time: no is no; period; done. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u81	It's the order, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u82	I have always referred to the procedure under the Referendum Act, which is to repeal the law and start looking for a solution. The Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have said that we are not going to do that, that does not work, then you have lost your negotiating position. There were all arguments for that. Nevertheless, we have the motion-Van Bommel c.s. (34270, No. 11) supported. He didn't make it. Then the cabinet, supported by the PvdA and the VVD, started the process. And seven months later, we're here. You can say a lot, but it's been a pretty consistent line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u83	I would venture to doubt this consistency, because given the origins of the Advisory referendum Act, of which D66 was also a leader, it is precisely a matter of listening to the voters and giving people a choice through an advisory referendum. That is the starting point. That is how we entered the referendum. That's how I know D66 from the old days. Secondly, I do not understand why Mr Verhoeven is going to pamper again the objections he has heard in rooms which I have heard during my campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u84	Perhaps it is because of my way of holding debates, listening to people in the country and going to rooms, but if I go to a room in the country to debate an association agreement, all kinds of people say to me: Mr Verhoeven, I am so worried, because this association agreement makes Ukraine a member of the European Union. People say: Mr Verhoeven, I am so concerned, because the military cooperation mentioned in the agreement scares me. These people also say: Mr Verhoeven, I am so afraid that all Ukrainian workers will come to the Netherlands to take over our jobs. If those people say that day in and day out to me, then I think I will do something with their signal if I try to remove those substantive objections and thus give substance to the no-thumb. So I do not find it so strange that after visiting all these rooms I try to do something with the objections I have heard. That is, I think, also a way of fulfilling your role as a representative of the people. I'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u85	That is why the D66 Group may have followed a consistent line at the moment when, like my group, they have followed the Van Bommel c.s motion. Supported. It was said, come up with a repeal law. Then you will see how you are going to fill it out and, if necessary, respond to any objections. Then you are going to renegotiate et cetera; I know what processes can be discussed. That would be a consistent line. Mr Verhoeven would then do justice to the objections which he has heard in the Chambers and which I have heard. But it is extremely inconsistent to say at some point that this motion has been rejected, so be it; we are leaving the referendum for what it is. Mr Verhoeven now says: no is not a no; possibly we are going to try to accommodate the objections. He also says that it will be considered whether anything can be corrected, while this is not being done for the time being. That's not consistent at all, is it? I would like to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u86	I think it's consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u87	Madam President. The result of the referendum was clear: no to the association agreement with Ukraine. The cabinet says it still sees room for a solution. If it is up to the cabinet, the text of the treaty will remain as it is, but there will be a declaration by Heads of Government, a kind of package leaflet to the treaty. The government has the power and the right to make this effort, because it is true that an advisory referendum is not a binding referendum. That is why the cabinet can and may try to save the treaty. But the political judgement of the SGP is that it does not see any benefit in this. We have never made it a secret that we find neither meat nor fish in an advisory referendum. It carries the great risk that it produces more unease than it removes unease. That is exactly what we are seeing. It is true that blindly following such a consultative referendum is inadequate in terms of the government's and Parliament's own responsibility, but it is equally true that the rejection of the outcome of the referendum is seriously damaging citizens' confidence. The sad thing is that this is all the more important when it comes to a European treaty, because it is precisely on European decision-making that there is a great deal of scepticism and dissatisfaction among the citizens. It is understandable that the cabinet makes a rational reconstruction of the no vote, but it is also vulnerable and questionable. A feature of a referendum is that there are only two tastes, yes or no, and that the ballot does not allow for a justification. Both rational considerations and emotions play a role in choosing yes or no. I would like to draw attention to a statement by the European Commissioner that Ukraine can still become a member of the EU. I would like to draw attention to the European Parliament's resolution which states that EU membership must be possible in the long term. That is oil on the fire of no-voters who believe that the EU is a moving train that cannot or cannot be stopped. This reinforces the feeling that governments always claim that it is in the national interest to bring us into the European field. If the end of the song was that the treaty would go on, with some pictures and talk around it, that would be an unfortunate outcome. The cabinet must have very good papers to ignore the council of over 60% of voters. The SGP Group does not see these compelling interests. To make a long story short, the most credible result is and remains in our view: not ratify. The cabinet is exploring a different route and has the right to do so, but in view of the consultative referendum Act, my question is whether there will be definitive clarity as to where the cabinet stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u88	Mr. Chairman. When the referendum law was adopted in 2014, a majority of the House was here on the banks to applaud. At last democracy was renewed and the regents were set aside. Everyone is happy, until something surprising happened: already at the first opportunity, within the framework of the previously unknown EU Association Treaty with Ukraine, more than 400,000 signatures were collected and a referendum was enforced. The CDA voted in favour of the Treaty with Ukraine and against the referendum law. At the same time, the CDA is aware that once a referendum has been held, when the Chamber has said that the Dutch are on the move, it cannot be said that you are not doing anything with the result. Dutch people were really asked something. What happened? Let's not forget that. 13 million call cards have been sent. What happened wasn't a joke. There were 4 million people voting, 2.5 million people voting against, 1.5 million people voting in favour. The total cost of the referendum: 40 million. I participated in the campaign for the referendum. I took that seriously. I have called for a vote in favour of the treaty. But I have also said, as my colleagues have said, that if the turnout is valid, then the result must be respected. That's still true. Let us be realistic: decisions in the political world have consequences. This also applies to the decision of a parliament not to decide on its own, but to give up that decision. You cannot ask the people for an opinion and, when the results are disappointing, suddenly say: wrong, thank you, we do it differently. The referendum was called advisory, but what it meant was something else: if it becomes a yes, we implement it, but if it becomes a no, we do not. That's not how it works. Meanwhile, seven months later, we're almost rolling into the next referendum. Don't forget that. The CDA is against referenda and the referendum law, but how can it be, seven months after the referendum, that the cabinet is still concerned with that old law and has not itself taken the initiative to stop doing so? That's a responsibility. Democracy is not a playground. Democracy is about the echelon. If the Chamber lays that choice out of its hands, there will be consequences. Then you can't say, if the results are disappointing, that wasn't the intention, next time better. What happened? The ballot boxes weren't closed yet or panic broke out in The Hague. With a yes, the referendum advocates would have called for it to be a successful means, which we will continue with. Now they were completely lost. The cabinet, in panic, had a spelling formula ready: we are not going to ratify, or are we, but not simply ratify. As if that was the question that was before. Still in September, the Prime Minister said about not ratifying by the Netherlands: it is not nice, of course, but they will have to settle a few things legally and then it can just go on. Then, a few weeks later, he took an extremely alarming tone. Now the cabinet is still trying to interpret what the voter meant by the "no' vote. But pay attention to the referendum. Citizens are not asked to write an essay with arguments for or against. I wish. It's a yes or a no. Again, if you give up that question, you did. Now there will be no EU membership in that treaty, no military cooperation obligation and no financial support to Ukraine. Like that was in that treaty. Do we really think that the Dutch do not know what they are voting for or against? They don't have to motivate. We can explain in politics what we think it was, but that is not an answer to a referendum. I'm rounding up. Seven months after that referendum, the Hague is particularly confused. The Netherlands knows, looks at us and thinks: what are they doing now? That is the result of the referendum. That's why it can't be done. That is why there is only one way, and that is to continue not to carry out the referendum, as I said in April, and never to hold this kind of referendum again, because it is not working. That's what I'm addressing the cabinet to. Many people wrote to me about their concerns, both in respect of the outcome of the referendum and in non-respect of it. One is that the Netherlands loses its position in Europe. Otherwise, it is a question of weakening our democracy. But I say to you: if we simply continue as if nothing was going on, we in the Chamber will prove that we have understood nothing about democracy. Again, there are two possibilities. You have representative democracy and then you make decisions on behalf of the people and make choices. That's what the CDA stands for. Or you give it out of your hands, but then you don't have to vote mice like people didn't like you expected on the first occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u89	I think this is a consistent argument. Mr Buma is against referenda, but if one has been held, he says: follow it and carry it out. That is what Mr Buma said in April: get to work on the repeal law. He also supported the motions for resolutions. That's great. Can I assume, then, that all the messages I read in the newspapers, namely that there are certain CDA parliamentarians who might be in it differently, are incorrect and that this is simply the CDA's position: withdraw that treaty, because it is off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u90	Yeah, that's the point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u92	Yes, that's the position, so all those reports about CDA parliamentarians saying "we're gonna wait and see what the Prime Minister comes to the Lower House or the Upper Chamber in a couple of weeks' time and then we're gonna take a quiet look at his nonsense"? The CDA is against this treaty, and this treaty must be removed from the table. Is that right or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u93	Yeah, and at the same time, I'm not gonna deny what's in the papers. That is all there is to it, and I do not think that is a problem at all. I'm saying what I think here, and I mean it. I'm saying that very seriously. I also think that the others should take that seriously. It's our move now. I'm standing right here and you're standing right there. I'll tell the cabinet two things. In April, about the entire Chamber, except for the coalition, filed that motion which stated: repeal that law. So that's nothing new either. I say: let us not pretend that the citizen is happy with an interpretation by us here in The Hague of what they would have found. Stop with this kind of referenda, but make sure that in a case like this you do not go on seven months later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u94	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA campaigned for the association agreement with Ukraine. Our commitment was that we support this cooperation with Ukraine and that it is important for relations with Ukraine, for the promotion of human rights and for democracy there. This cooperation is also important to ensure that Ukraine does not drop Putin's hands. Our line was at the same time that the outcome of the referendum in the Netherlands must be respected. That is still our commitment. That is why we also supported the motion to clarify the follow-up to the referendum by 1 November. The PvdA wants to give the cabinet room to give a place to the main objections of the no-vote. By letter, the Cabinet indicated that it would like to continue negotiations for a legally binding solution in the coming period prior to the European Council of 15 and 16 December. It takes a long time, and that also makes us impatient. In April too, after the results, we talked about this. The question lies with the cabinet as to what the cabinet should do with the result, because the ball is there; that is what the law says. I repeat what we said at the time: whether the cabinet should follow the opinion of the electorate is no longer the question. All parties have stated in their own terms that this must be done. We know more by now. The cabinet has been in talks with the other parties to the treaty and is working in Brussels to find ways with the Member States to give a place to the objections of the no-voters. There are a number of points at the forefront: that the Treaty is not a substitute for membership of the European Union, that it does not give military cooperation and assistance obligations, that it does not mean that Ukrainians are allowed to work here, that the promotion of the rule of law in Ukraine should be a central element of the Treaty and that it should be a legally binding solution. The PvdA supports the government in this direction, even though this is a difficult and tough road, with both Chambers and Member States supporting it. It is important that the government takes account of all relevant aspects, including the geopolitical context, in this process. The PvdA supports the Prime Minister, who is trying to make an ultimate effort for that solution. We also understand that it's tough and slow. That also brings frustration to us. It'll take a long time. We want the cabinet to have the room as soon as possible to give a place to those objections of the 'no' vote. We do not want to do this recklessly, because we do not want the interests of the Netherlands and Europe to be dealt with recklessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u95	I was actually expecting Mr Monasch, but he's not coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u96	He's coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u97	Oh, okay. I also ask Mrs Maij what is happening now. Mr Samsom was so clear: no is no, so get to work with that repeal law! Why does she now come up with such a confusing story that she is waiting to see what the Prime Minister can do in Brussels? I thought the results were perfectly clear. This treaty is off the table, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u98	I don't think I was very confused. We also pointed out in April that we consider it important to follow up the vote of the 'no' vote. We want to see how the objections of the no-docker can get a place. We want to give the cabinet room for this. That is what we said in April, and I repeat it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u99	Your party leader said no is no. That does not mean a treaty with Ukraine. The Prime Minister says something completely different. He says he would like to ratify the treaty, otherwise hell and damnation would come. I just heard you're supporting him in that. That is different from what your party leader said at the time of the referendum. Why are you involved in that? You're gonna lose your credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u100	I have made it very clear that we believe that there should be a place here in substance for the objections of the no vote. That is also what we indicated in April. That step was clear at the time, and that is what we have said. I find it remarkable that in fact all the things the Prime Minister is working on are objections raised by the SP in the campaign, Mr Van Dijk. I would have expected you to stand here and say: how wonderful that we are finally being listened to! Your own leader, Mr Roemer, said that the treaty is a stepping stone to the European Union; let us not deceive people. If it becomes clear that this is not the case, I would expect the SP to be standing along the line cheering. I can mention a few things that your own leader said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u101	You may respond briefly, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u102	This is all a smokescreen; all this is irrelevant. The treaty has been rejected, so it must be off the table. That's what Diederik Samsom said, and that's what you're turning away from right now, after the Prime Minister. I think that's a shame, because that takes away all your credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u103	The leader of the SP, your leader, has on March 21, you can look back on the question "is the treaty a prelude to membership of the European Union?" Let us not deceive people, this is a step towards the European Union. On the question "is the treaty good for the Dutch economy?" Your leader said that so many cheap workers are coming to the European Union. On the question "is this a provocation?" Your leader has said: this treaty is not necessary, we can help Ukraine in different ways; you do not do that by sending billions to corrupt governments or to oligarchs. All your concerns are addressed here. I expected you to respond more enthusiastically as SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u104	That's all very nice and emotional, but much more important is that you say: we're gonna accommodate the objections of the no-voters, we're gonna do something with that, we're gonna give them a nice spot. Did you ask those no-voters what objections they have and do you have any chance of going on a no-vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u105	I've been active in the campaign. I've been there with a number of SP'ers. They all said the same thing I just mentioned and what I quoted from Mr Roemer. Those were very clear objections. If we can meet some of these objections, and if we can give them a place in a legally binding document, then some of those opponents, who are also here in the Chamber, should actually pay a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u106	That's a weird argument. In the debate before the referendum, Mr Roemer said that it was a bit absurd. You have said that this is nonsense, because it is not an adaptation to, for example, membership of the European Union. That's a trade-off. Then the voter makes a choice: he says no. Then you say that you still want to accommodate that voter, when you do not know at all what argument that voter made. In short, you cannot say: yes, but I do know what the voter thinks and I am going to go along with that a little bit. That shows a certain arrogance. Actually, you don't need to know anything. No is no!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u107	Mr Klein has put all these words in my mouth, including qualifications, about Mr Roemer. I didn't give it to you at all. I only indicated what Mr Roemer said. I also indicated what we said in the debate in April. The ball's in the cabinet. We want the cabinet to follow up on the substance of this no-vote and to give that no-vote a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u108	Mr. Chairman. The association agreement with Ukraine would have been a good way to support the country on the path to prosperity, human rights and democracy. It could strengthen the rule of law. It obliges Ukraine to establish and enforce clear and fair rules. It would ensure that we work more closely together in different areas in order to combat poverty, corruption and lawlessness. It will also be simpler and cheaper for companies to import products from and export to Ukraine. It's a fine treaty. As far as we are concerned, it could also have served international relations and stability in Ukraine. We have therefore campaigned firmly for it. However, the government did not. We have hardly seen this Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. The coalition parties left it to D66 and GroenLinks to try to explain the Ukraine treaty well in the Netherlands, against all populist talk. That was not possible and we lost the referendum. Then you take, after good democratic practice, your loss. Then you think carefully about what you've done wrong and continue with the result. In the meantime, however, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands has been on the line for six months. In mid-October, he woke up a little bit. And now we need to hear from him a dramatic story about the importance of the country, about the Russian bear and about major geopolitical issues. Now we should put aside the result of the referendum a little bit. I do not even blame the Prime Minister so much that he needs more time now, but that he had so little foresight. All the arguments were on the table during the run-up to the referendum. They've all passed the review, but it wasn't supposed to benefit. We have not succeeded in convincing the Dutch people. And then it's no different: a no from the population is a no. Whatever the cabinet does now, the ball is in the cabinet. Apparently, there's support for taking this extra time. So be it, we'll wait and see. However, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, that repeal law should have been in place by now. We have said that before in the Chamber. I come to the geopolitical importance of this treaty. It's getting scrubbed up like hell right now. There is a geopolitical interest, but this is not a new argument. And it's also relative. It was not the reason to come to this treaty. When we talk about geopolitical interests, I'll remember one more. The Netherlands is a gas supplier and a major trader in gas and oil. This gives our country the opportunity to really play a geopolitical card. But the Netherlands doesn't, because then suddenly the merchant is more important than the vicar. The Netherlands earns here and in Western Europe from Russian gas and Russian oil. These Russian energy sources are being implemented through the Netherlands. With this, Russia is funding its fighter jets over Syria: let us be aware of that. If we really want to do something, if we really want to do something about it, we should do something about it. That's my call to the Prime Minister. Can he clearly respond to that? When is the helm involved in this policy? The Netherlands must now do justice to the outcome of the referendum. But we also need to do something for Ukraine. Well, we'll just have to do that outside of the treaty. The country suffers from occupation and corruption. It should not be a reason to take our hands off Ukraine. What is the Netherlands going to do to support Ukraine, I ask the Prime Minister. Is the cabinet talking to Ukraine about this? Will the Netherlands, for example, contribute to a major OSCE mission, as requested by Ukraine? Will the Netherlands support such a mission? Is that the case where we can do something for Ukraine in a credible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u109	I hear Mr Grashoff say a lot of things that I myself have said. However, I said at the end that D66 therefore believes that the Prime Minister should have six more weeks. What exactly does GroenLinks say after this debate? Mr Klaver has always said to newspaper journalists: I consider the chance that we give the cabinet room to look for a solution to this problem to be very limited. Mr Grashoff just said: so be it, and it could have been better. What does GroenLinks say to the cabinet now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u110	We say to the members of the cabinet: the ball is with you. We say: come up with what you want to come up with, but GroenLinks has a hard mind that the Prime Minister can come up with a credible solution. We have a hard mind that it will be a solution on the basis of which we could explain to the Dutch people that it would really do justice to the outcome of the referendum. But I say again: creativity is now in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u111	May I translate that into a slightly clearer position? In fact, Mr Grashoff is now saying the same thing as what D66 says. He actually says, "We'll give the Prime Minister six weeks." Then we can see if he has come up with something good. But he can at least try it from GroenLinks. Is that how I put it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u112	I think Mr Van der Staaij may have said it most precisely again. He said the cabinet has the right to do this. So let people do it. But the cabinet hasn't convinced GroenLinks yet. I think that the agreement will prove to be the difference between D66 and GroenLinks when the cabinet comes up with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u113	Mr. Chairman. An advisory referendum gives advice. The majority voted against ratifying the Convention on 6 April. You then take this advice to heart or you put it next to you. What you have to do is give clarity to the voter. But what does this cabinet do? Endlessly wailing with clarity, to eventually get bogged down in a swamp full of folklore. The cabinet always pretends that the result is respected, but then again and again shows a reprieve. For the deadline of 1 November, we received the letter requested by the Chamber, in which the cabinet again calls for additional negotiating time with much "sorry." Needlessly stalling, I call that. And yet we all know that the cabinet is not getting a foothold on this point. Let's stop this painful display. As far as the Free Party is concerned, we take the outcome of the referendum seriously, we follow the electorate's council and now the repeal law is being filed. Just make a decision, and then move on from that position in Europe. Then we can also put our hands on a real, free-minded change, which is to make basic income possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u114	Mr. Chairman. Today exactly 216 days ago, more than 2.5 million Dutch voted against the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. The question that had to be answered in the voting booth was: "Are you for or against the law approving the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine?'. For or against. And there was only one question. No follow-up question in the vein of "Are you in favour or -by the time we change the agreement?'. The question was "for or against?'. It can't be any clearer. The result was also clear: 61% voted against the approval law. During the debate on 13 April, 50PLUS already stated that the cabinet had two options. On the one hand, ignore the outcome of the consultative referendum and conclude ratification. On the other hand, follow the advice or advice of the Dutch people and do not ratify the agreement. Nothing in between. 50PLUS, like many other political groups, with a total of 71 MPs, was clear: cabinet, filing a repeal law as soon as possible. Between April 13th and today, as far as 50PLUS is concerned, nothing has changed. It's still one thing or the other. The cabinet wants to remove feelings of displeasure as soon as possible, but takes all the time for talks and negotiations. In the letter of 31 October, the Cabinet states that it intends to submit a legislative proposal to regulate the entry into force of the Act of Approval if it reaches a legally binding solution. Can we expect a bill if this doesn't work? Namely, a proposal to repeal the Approval Act. When can we expect such a bill? However, 50PLUS calls on the cabinet to stop the negotiations already. Just make a decision today. The voter can then give his opinion on this on 15 March, in 127 days' time. We will support Mr Bontes' motion of censure as 50PLUS. If this cabinet leaves quickly, we may also be able to stop the threatening pension reductions, and that is an additional advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u115	Mr. Chairman. No is no and no doesn't mean a little yes. It is now almost 200 days since our citizens have exercised their democratic rights. I repeat, 200 days. While the outcome of the referendum was ready, we are having another debate here on whether or not we should take the opinion of the people in our country seriously. That's kind of sad, actually. Although we were in favour of the agreement between the European Union and Ukraine, we have seen that the people have ruled differently. The voter said no and we respect that. The question before us now is: will the cabinet do justice to the outcome of the referendum? We have our doubts. We give the government the disadvantage of the doubt; we do not just do so, because in this case, results from the past offer a guarantee for the future. Think of the euro, the war in Iraq, the no to the European Constitution, and so on. We at DENK believe that we should not negotiate with our democracy. If the cabinet ignores this outcome, our democracy will again have an ugly scar and confidence in the democratic rule of law and politics will shrink. The rejection of the referendum is not only a no to the Treaty; it is also a no to the Hague elite, to professional politicians and to the long arm of Brussels. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the government share this view? What broader lessons does she draw from the referendum? Is the government prepared to come up with a vision for democracy and the European Union as a result of the referendum? I'd like to get a reaction to that. In fact, there is little to discuss, because the voters have made a clear statement. We at DENK therefore call on the cabinet to do justice to this, because, as I said before, no is just no and not a little yes. That must be done right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u116	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Monasch. Is this your maiden speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u117	Yes. That feels very awkward, but I'm glad the Chamber isn't going to interrupt me now. Mr. Chairman. If you are in favour of a referendum, you should step aside, at least as a politician, you should step aside. After all, a referendum means transferring part of your power, of your influence. In an advisory referendum, you step aside. When you say in an advisory referendum that you are sticking to the ruling, you actually say: it is a corrective referendum; I accept that statement and I am not going to mess with it anymore. You're gonna say, "A deal's a deal." Unfortunately, the group I was a member of until recently was not prepared to keep that agreement. That is very difficult for me, because we also saw what happened to that European Treaty in 2005. I therefore sent you a letter today explaining why I left the PvdA group. The cabinet now has two choices: withdraw or ratify. There are two flavors; there are no others. Nothing can be added; the cabinet has no right to do so and the referendum law is not prepared for that. That is why my advice was then and my advice is now: to withdraw, to return quickly to Brussels, to negotiate and to make a new proposal, which is also referendable. I urge the Prime Minister. The road he is following now is causing enormous democratic damage. It is a road that the referendum law does not offer. I therefore appeal to him to return to his steps, to return to Brussels, to negotiate a new treaty and to refer it back to the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-35.u118	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The sitting will be suspended for ten minutes. Then we shall vote by roll-call vote on the motion of censure tabled by Mr Bontes.
