ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I ask the Members to stand up. On 27 July, Piet de Jong died at the age of 101: Senator for the Catholic People's Party from 11 May 1971 to 17 September 1974. In the four years before, Mr De Jong was Prime Minister of the first post-war cabinet to serve a full period. Resistant but steady course he sent the ship of State. Petrus Jozef Sietse de Jong was born on Easter Saturday 3 April 1915 in Apeldoorn, as a sixth child in a Fries Catholic family. After the Hbs in Apeldoorn, Mr.De Jong took the nobility course in Den Helder, where he graduated as the second of his year. At the age of 19, Mr. De Jong became lieutenant-ter-zee of the third class in the submarine service. For three years he was stationed in Surabaya. After the outbreak of World War II in May 1940, as the oldest officer with a submarine, he suddenly had to cross from Rotterdam to England. It was a vessel that had never sailed at full power and was probably not waterproof. But by the clear navigation of Mr.De Jong the ship broke through the waterline and made it safe the crossing. During the war years that followed, Mr De Jong patrolled the North Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, the Atlantic Ocean and the Java Sea. On board he developed a controlled, unflinching sobriety: something he would be known for in his later political career. His years at sea also expanded his view of the world. Mr De Jong himself later said about this: "There are two kinds of people: those who stand on the beach and think here the country ends and those who think here the rest of the world begins." In 1948, Mr. De Jong became an adjutant to the Minister and later to the Secretary of State of the Navy. Afterwards, he was commander, NATO staff officer, and Queen Juliana's adjutant. In those years he developed a reputation as an expert military, averse to political shipper. For this reason, Mr. De Jong was literally taken off the ship in 1959 with a helicopter to become Secretary of State for Defence. Four years later, he was appointed Minister of Defense. In that capacity, he carried out a major reorganisation. The department would now consist of three separate armies under a vertical structure of authority. This encountered a great deal of resistance in Parliament. But by listening carefully and getting through to the matter quickly, Mr. De Jong finally received a great deal of praise for the way in which he had made policy more sympathetic. The reorganisation was even so thorough that for the first time in years, the financial future of Defense stood well. After the fall of the Cals cabinet in the night of Schmelzer, followed by the transitional cabinet-Zijlstra, Mr De Jong was appointed Prime Minister in April 1967. He soon managed to tie his cabinet to him, to each other and to the program. As a balanced and balanced commander if necessary, he enabled his team to achieve considerable performance. A comprehensive legislative programme was put in place: the AWBZ, democratisation of universities, the introduction of VAT, the emancipation of homosexuals, the simplification of divorce, income equalisation... and all this under strict budgetary policies. In a period of our patriotic history in which almost every kind of authority was denounced, Mr De Jong found exactly the right balance between letting go and intervention. He showed himself to be agile but steady course. On 11 May 1971, two months after the end of his presidency, Mr De Jong was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber. He was soon appointed as chairman of the KVP's political group. As a member of parliament, he argued that his party, together with the ARP and the CHU, would form a large Christian Democratic bloc. In this house, Mr De Jong stated during the General Political Reviews in 1972 that politics is nothing but the settlement of relations between citizens and that many find the inspiration and mission to do so in their faith. In an interview about this he said that the essence of faith and politics lies in the commandment that you must love your neighbor. When the KVP, ARP and CHU opted for separate lists at the 1974 elections, Mr De Jong withdrew from active politics. But behind the scenes, he kept making his move for the merger. The signature action following his direct appeal to the members of the three parties gave the key to forming the CDA. After leaving politics, Mr De Jong spent a lot of time on charitas. For example, he was Vice-President of the Dutch Red Cross, Chairman of the National Remembrance Committee (40-45) and Chairman of the Centrale for Mediation and Co-financing of Development Programmes. Mr De Jong also filled commissioners at DAF, Nationale Nederlanden, Shell, Het Financieele Dagblad and Hoogovens. He was also director of the Catholic University of Nijmegen, Westeinde Hospital, Stichting Holland Beton Groep and Douwe Egberts. He also led economic missions to Australia and China and was chairman of the Industrial Council for Oceanology. Mr De Jong was usually satisfied in parliament with few words. So I think he'd think I'm talking too long now. But the words he uttered were razor-sharp, decisive and often with a quince. It is a great good that his sharp mind has remained intact to an old age. Mr De Jong was a great statesman, who deserves a prominent place in our history. His reputation as a former prime minister has grown over the years. It has been given to him to be able to experience that at an old age. May our respect for his person and his merits for our patriotic democracy be to support his family and friends. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. "In this rapidly changing world, the government must set its course. It does so despite the limited possibilities it has at its disposal, in the awareness of the great responsibilities it thus bears for the future of our country." Was signed: Piet de Jong. It is a statement that says a lot about his sense of responsibility, his relativism and his sense of time. Thanks to these characteristics, Piet de Jong was exactly the Prime Minister who needed our country in the turbulent 1960s. We are grateful for what he has done and meant for our country. Of great importance to his future life was indeed the Second World War, which he spent as commander on submarine O 24. It was years at the sharpest of cuts, sometimes balancing on the edge of life and death with a small group of people in a limited space. These experiences marked his personality. He himself said about this: "Once you have heard the singing of the scythe, life has changed a little. You've learned to relativize for your whole life. You're gonna be looser about the material things." Piet de Jong traded the sea for the country in 1959, when the KVP appealed to him. He would continue to speak in sailors' stars throughout his life, until the moment in the House of Representatives that the microphone was too high for the not very long Piet de Jong, and he said: chairman, can the periscope be lowered a little bit? In his political life, too, he remained the man he was at sea, solid and servant. Some kind of vanity didn't bother him at all. He said about the prime ministership: I never really understood the real attraction of it. Maybe it gave him that great relaxation and also honesty. He managed to guide the Netherlands quietly and controlled by the surfing of the sixties. According to himself it was a time of refreshing renewal, but sometimes also of confusion. He understood the call for more democracy, openness and equality, but acted when boundaries were crossed. The De Jong cabinet introduced a lot of legislation in the turbulent 1960s, but also policies. From the introduction of the minimum wage, the increase in the AOW and the strengthening of development cooperation to a substantial reduction in unemployment, it can all be described as the decisive De Jong cabinet. With great love and courtesy Piet de Jong managed to persuade others. It is a mistake that he is such a nice man, a political opponent once said about him. You have to like him. Piet de Jong, with a good sense of the spirit of time, gave the impetus to a government that was less closed and also less regentous than before. In 1970 he started a weekly press conference after the Council of Ministers. In his contacts with the press, he never hid behind woolly words. Piet de Jong said around and simply what it was on. He did so in the last few years during the conversations and meetings I had with him. I have come to know him as a charming and perceptive man with a philosophical view of life, coming from a deep faith in God. The Catholic faith was almost everything to him. The always sober Piet de Jong had a clear spiritual core. He also said about the mysterious sounds of animals and plants in the sea: how that works, no man knows; all that is in the books in heaven. Today we commemorate Piet de Jong with warmth, respect and gratitude. On behalf of the government, I wish his children, family and friends the strength to bear this great loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-eerstekamer-3.u3	May I ask Members to observe a moment of silence?
