ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	With the acceptance of the Chamber we proceed in one smooth movement to the next VAO. The first speaker is already eagerly impatient. That's Mrs. Helder from the PVV. She has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It was a very special general consultation, not only because of the fact that we in the Chamber only had five minutes of speaking time on a huge legislative process, which is also linked to a huge pace. That's also problematic. My group therefore considers it right that we, as a Chamber, have agreed to seek the assistance of a special Registrar. It's all happening really fast. My group is still considering what to do with the question of whether there should be a government commissioner. This has been done by the General Administrative Law Act and by the Civil Code. So the question is why this would not happen with this Code of Criminal Procedure, but well, that is an open question. I do not know the answer, but I would like to mention it. After all, the trajectory continues. One point I mentioned explicitly in general consultation, because it is very important to my group. That is why I would like to table a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure has begun;]] [[Whereas the current Code of Criminal Procedure is still working well and therefore more urgent problems, in particular the shaping of national police, need to be addressed properly;]] [[believes that shaping national police is also of great importance for performance in the criminal justice chain;]] [[noting that it is not clear to what extent this process is disturbed by the ambition to modernise the Code of Criminal Procedure;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure only, at the current rate or not, if this does not disturb the form of the national police;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. There are many problems in the criminal justice chain that require solutions. Cuts on the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the justice system, failing ICT, organisations and systems that work side by side and don't connect well, and the minister comes up with a lot of laws. Although laws alone do not solve all these problems, the SP is also willing to look at this very closely and, above all, to think about how we can handle this huge process properly. The new Code of Criminal Procedure is a legal mega-project and it will have to be able to participate in the coming decades. We discussed the outline note. The Minister especially calls himself very ambitious, he said. However, the question is how realistic and responsible this is. Has sufficient thought been given to the principles, the coherence and the enormous consequences for all organisations? I don't think there's enough time. Since care must be taken first, the timetable must be adjusted. We cannot wait until the summer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure is a far-reaching, technical and complex legislative operation, where it is important to have an integral underlying vision and understanding of the coherence in order to properly assess whether the appropriate steps are being taken towards the new Code of Criminal Procedure that can be applied over the next decades;]] [[Considering that there is a great deal of criticism of the government's planning, with the first new books of the Code of Criminal Procedure being submitted to the consultation parties as early as May 2016, followed by even more extensive laws in October 2016, while the government is not going to report on a possible adapted planning until the summer;]] [[Considers that consultation cannot take place in May 2016 because there is still insufficient vision and coherence and that it is important for organisations to be able to carefully assess these far-reaching changes to the criminal process;]] [[calls on the Government, with appropriate planning for the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to inform the Court of Justice about this and to consult formally only thereafter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. The previous speakers have already talked about it: we have a great deal of modernisation ahead of us. The Minister explained his outlines, but as far as D66 is concerned, he has not yet been able to count on his approval for all these contours. The timetable is an obstacle to this; we have talked about it before. During the hearing, I already heard the police, the justice system and the prosecutor's office say that the pace should be reduced. The Minister has promised us that he will look into whether or not he should do so in the summer. I think it's too late. I therefore urge the Minister to talk about this in the short term and to come up with a modified timetable this spring. That is why I support the motion that the SP has just tabled. D66 is also concerned about the fundamental discussion. A coherent view of modernisation is lacking and it is unclear what fundamental discussions need to be held before we get to grips with it. I do not read enough about this in the Minister's outline. He sees that differently himself, but I would like to ask him whether he can make clear to the Chamber what fundamental discussions he has already had with the field in the preliminary stage. Then we can take this into account in the follow-up process in the Chamber and, for example, give it to the special Registrar who may be appointed. Finally, I would like to say a few words about cohesion. It concerns six major codes of conduct submitted by legislative proposal. In the end, all this must come together in a single code of conduct and in a single implementation practice. I would ask the Minister, in each legislative proposal, to devote a separate chapter to the coherence between that bill and the legislative proposals that are already in place and are about to come. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two points in my two minutes. The first concerns the financial slash the impact that the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure has potential on the various organisations active in the criminal justice chain. I am thinking not only of the police, but also of the Public Prosecutor's Office and all kinds of related organizations. I understand that it is complicated for the Minister because these legislative pathways still have to be deployed and will be separately provided with impact analyses and so on, but where possible I would like to have more explanation as to what financial and impact could be exactly the impact on the various organisations. As far as this is not possible at the moment, I would like to see this explained in more detail in the additional technical briefing already promised, which we discussed last week. Then I will come to one motion, because the general discussion was about putting emphasis on what you as a group attach importance to when it comes to modernising the Code of Criminal Procedure. I believe that the position of victims should be mentioned more than now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[establishing that the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure is a major legislative operation with several amendments being proposed in several legislative proposals over a longer period;]] [[Whereas the current contour note for this modernisation only mentions to a limited extent the position of the victim and the way in which this position is changed or strengthened;]] [[Considering that several legislative proposals have already sought to strengthen the victim's position in criminal proceedings and that this should continue in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to constantly consider the situation of the victim and, if so, whether the present proposal strengthens this position in the process of developing the modernisation mentioned above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Several speakers have indicated that we are moving in a very intensive and interesting direction: the modernisation of our Code of Criminal Procedure. In doing so, care is absolutely of the utmost importance. Science has been thinking about this theme for a very long time. It is quite clear that the practice still needs to be improved. The same applies to us as a room. It is therefore a good thing that we have chosen to attract a special clerk to help the Chamber to go through this process carefully. I have doubted whether I would like to table any further motions from the CDA Group to give the Minister something. But actually, in all honesty, I think it's a little wrong to do that. We need to go into this process with an open mind. I now hear a very sympathetic motion from the coalition; let that be absolutely said. But I'm afraid we're probably getting one thing out of it right now and maybe that's not right. I know that Professor Groenhuijsen was closely involved in the entire design of the criminal proceedings in 2001. 2001, so why are we in a hurry? I cannot imagine that there was not enough thought at the time about the victim, because he is the professor who has always worked for victims. So I wonder whether it is absolutely true that if we do not see it in the contour note enough, it will not get its place in the legislation as it will be rolled out. So I'm gonna have to look at what I want with a motion like that. She is very sympathetic, but should we strike one pickpost, when we do not really know yet whether we are doing justice to the preparation of the trial? I am concerned about a point I would like to raise without tabling a motion. Will the Minister continue to pay close attention to the fact that the movement we are putting forward is not really a completely different movement from the movement that Europe is making in relation to the hearings? That's what I'm worried about. The principle of immediate action is a sort of ultimate goal of Europe, while we strengthen things in the lead. Let us pay particular attention to how that takes shape in the end. I think it's really too early for picket posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. This is the kick-off of a journey we're going to talk about for years. My group does strike two picket posts, because we do not find two subjects that are very close to our heart in the outline paper. I'm not going to let you know how it's worked out. There's still freedom. I'm just going to read out two motions, because time goes fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new Book 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a chapter on juvenile criminal procedure;]] [[Considers that in the Netherlands too little account is taken of the suspect's minority at the time of the police interview, the insurance and the pre-trial detention of young people;]] [[considers that, in the case of persecution of young people, the importance of detection and prosecution should also be taken into account;]] [[Calls on the Government to limit to three days the maximum period for stay in a police cell for minors;]] [[calls on the Government to lay down the rules on criminal proceedings against young people in such a way as to ensure that minors are less likely to be in insurance and remand than is currently the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the right to reparation is aimed at a satisfactory and lasting punishment for the victim, society and offender and further prosecution of criminal offences;]] [[believes that victims who wish to do so can benefit from the right of recovery, which can be reduced repeatedly, and that this right of recovery should be properly protected by the law;]] [[calls on the Government, in the new Code of Criminal Procedure, to provide a structural basis at the level of police, prosecutor and judge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-306]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-307]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	Exactly what I was afraid of is happening now, because Mr Recourt is tabling a motion on juvenile law in which he indicates how to deal with young people in remand before we can have a proper debate on it. All youth institutions are now working with courts to use pre-trial detention to see what to do with those kids. The entire juvenile criminal law that we have adopted together is aimed at providing tailor-made solutions. That's what this remand is sometimes very important for. How can you say that it has to be shorter by definition, when we are looking at how we can use that time for customization? The content must be decisive and not just the days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	I totally agree that juvenile justice is mostly custom-made. That is a long tradition in the Netherlands and we should certainly retain it, but Defence for Children has indicated a number of times, also in a thorough investigation, that the Netherlands is failing in terms of the duration of the pre-trial detention and the number of children in police cells. We've moved together before to shorten that. These general notions, which we have already spoken here in the Chamber on a number of occasions, I would like to point out to the Code of Criminal Procedure without any customization and the tradition we have in the Netherlands to destroy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	I would therefore ask Mr Recourt to amend and split this motion, because we really need to talk about pre-trial detention, because we have just started a process with the law of the juvenile criminal justice system in order to provide more tailor-made work. If someone says he wants to leave custody because he wants to go to school, then the juvenile institution looks at whether he is talking about it or whether he is going to go to court with a middle finger lifted to the judge. That's what happens. So that remand is something other than the police cell. I would very much like to work together on these police cells, but I think it is too short a blow to say that the detention period should be shorter, while we in the Netherlands are ahead of us in order to fill them in meaningfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm definitely gonna think about that if that means there's gonna be a majority. I am doing this for the pragmatic reasons alone, but Mrs Van Toorenburg also has a point in substance. Again, I certainly don't want to kill that customization, so I'm thinking about that. That leaves me 22 seconds. I use it to say that this ambitious project is good in itself and it has been in the scaffolding for a long time, but my group takes seriously all the concerns that experts have expressed about coherence with European law, for example. Professor Knigge has written a lot about that. The Minister referred to the sounding board group. The room's gonna talk to that first. But then there will be a moment to consider something I heard D66 and the SP say, and that is what the PvdA also says whether we think it is sufficient or whether we will propose to the government commissioner by means of a motion or otherwise to this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	Do I understand the PvdA correctly that she still sees the government commissioner as a possible option?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	Under what circumstances, according to the PvdA, is that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	If you have to continue to observe, even after Professor Knigge and the sounding board group have been heard, that there are discrepancies between the different movements and movements and that too much has been done on the new Code of Criminal Procedure, without any clear coherence, you have to find an instrument to build that coherence. Then the government commissioner seems to be an appropriate instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	Before I suspend, I note that there is no motion in part number. 1 is. If you're looking for it, there isn't one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions to the VOC. Let me point out that I am well aware that we are on the verge of a far-reaching and ambitious legislative process, but it is not a legislative process that has suddenly been on the table since this year. It is, as Mrs Van Toorenburg pointed out, a process that started in 1998, with the joint conclusion of the Chamber and Government that the Code of Criminal Procedure after its construction in 1926 in 1998 was urgently in need of modernisation. This need for modernisation has not been reduced in recent years, but much greater, because in recent years there has been an enormous change in the way we look at the position of the lawyer, the way we look at the prosecutor and the judge-supervisor, in the way we look at the criminal justice system. We urgently need to take clear steps in this regard. We have laid the foundations for this in the period between 1998 and 2004 in a very extensive process in which the Chamber has been closely and intensively involved in the research of the universities of Tilburg and Groningen. These are very fundamental discussions, and they have looked very closely at all aspects of our system. The conclusion was that our foundations and our legal principles, the foundations of proper procedural law, do not need to be changed in any way, but rather that we need to modernise the rules on the basis of the foundations we share. That's what we're gonna do. I sent a rather comprehensive letter to the Chamber immediately after the general consultation on how I can assist the Chamber in providing information in a very flexible way: you ask, the government will run. I understand very well that there is such a need. I am pleased that the Chamber has also accepted the offer regarding the consultation with the permanent adviser, Mr Knigge, who has been a leading player in the process since 1998. I am also pleased that the Chamber has indicated that it would like to have an exchange of views with the independent advisory council, which will ensure consistency, for example because it also includes someone who looks at the administrative aspects. I am also very pleased to hear that I have just received from the Chamber, namely that it is seriously considering the appointment of a special Registrar for this project. I personally think that is a very sensible move. In my current position, but also in my previous position, I have no experience of it, but I have understood that a special clerk has enormous added value for the Chamber to manage such a complicated legislative process. I therefore welcome this and look forward to the constructive consultation with the Chamber in order to continue to implement this legislative process very carefully but with ambition. I shall first answer a number of questions and then deal with the motions. Mrs Helder supports the idea of a special clerk, and I am very pleased about that. I'll be right back to talk about the motion. Mr Van Nispen shows that it is quite a lot, that it is an extensive project. I understand that very well; that is what he said in general consultation. He wondered how this could be managed. We need to work on that step by step. I also understand Mr Van Nispen's concern about planning. I have already indicated this in general consultation. In my letter, I confirmed once again that I do not want to change planning in a number of areas after the summer, as Mr Van Nispen thought. I shall then refer it to the Chamber. I shall now come to the specific motion on this subject. I have already answered Mrs Swinkels' question. That was a repeat of the question she asked in general consultation. On the same lines, referring to the fundamental debate of 1998-2004, I answered that question again. I can confirm to her that, of course, any legislative proposal will focus on coherence, consistency with this particular legislative proposal and, for example, with European laws and regulations. Mr Van Oosten asked about the financial impact. In a way, I can confirm to him what we have exchanged on this matter before. There are two moments when these financial consequences are made clear. Each bill contains a financial paragraph, which is prescribed. That paragraph will provide a preview of the expected financial consequences of the present legislative proposal. However, I expect and expect that the process will be able to change such a legislative proposal, because we want to have the debate with each other on that very point. In this context, I have agreed in general consultation that, at the end of the process, an analysis will also be made of the implementation period and of the financial consequences, on the basis of the legislative proposal which has been amended and adopted in the meantime. There are two ways in which I can respond to the concern that Mr Van Oosten rightly raised. We have seen that the police, in particular, but also the Public Prosecutor's Office, are concerned about this. We must respond to this concern. I can't say as responsible minister that I don't care about this and that we just do it. It really needs to be looked at. That is precisely why I have stressed once again in general consultation that we will really be very careful about the implementation period and that we are currently assuming a period between zero and five years. It could take five years to implement the new laws in a very careful and sensible way. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked another question about European law. On this point, too, I can confirm to her that I would like to make this link again and again in the individual legislative proposals. I will also look again at whether we are deviating from European law and, if so, why we are doing so. In the end, it comes down to the question of why the Dutch tradition, in which we want to do everything we can to ensure that everyone at the hearing gets to the ground, both the judge and the prosecutor, the counsellor and possibly the victim, should be more important than what seems to be happening in Europe today. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg: in Europe we really want more Anglo-Saxon structure, allowing everything to happen at the sitting. We chose to do this differently a long time ago. There are reasons for that. I think it is very good that we should take up the challenge of discussing this issue over and over again, whether or not to opt for the Dutch tradition, or to say that in some parts the European movement may not be that crazy. We can just have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	I would like to return to the Minister's answer to my question. The Minister is particularly concerned about finance, but I am particularly concerned about the effect this has on the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That has to do with finance, but I mean strictly the impact that this can have on operational commitment. However, I think it is important to have a little more indication of what we might actually be dealing with prior to that process, especially since the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the other organisations are of course also writing to the Chamber about it. Isn't it possible to get a little more explanation about that, whether or not at the technical briefing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten. He already talked about the technical briefing; that is the key word here. In general, I have offered to organise a technical briefing, if necessary by legislative proposal, in order to assess the impact, not just the costs, on the organisation. I have also promised to inform the Court of Justice through regular progress reports on developments in this area. So I am also making sure that we keep taking the Chamber back and forth in the question of where we stand now, what that means and what the new insights are. So two things: there will be a technical briefing, if necessary by legislative proposal, on the costs and impact on the organisations, and there will also be attention to this in the periodic progress reports. I'm getting to the motions. In the motion in part No. Mrs Helder's 303 is actually based on the same concern, which I share with Mrs Helder and which I also understand. Mrs Helder's concern is that the implementation of the new law is a risk to the design of the national police. The considerations in the motion seem to suggest that the legislative process as such is a risk. I think Mrs Helder means that it is mainly about the implementation of the legislative proposals. In order to be more positive, I would like to explain the motion in this way: first, of course, look at the impact of the legislative proposals on the police. Moreover, our starting point is that less needs to be done by the police, that more streamlined work can be done and that it will be much less difficult and difficult than it is now, but then look at how we can do this in such a way that we do not jeopardise the process of completing the reorganisation, as Mrs Helder rightly said. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 304 members of Van Nispen and Swinkels are asked for an adapted schedule. I have agreed in general consultation that I would propose to the Chamber an amended schedule. The difference with my offer is that Mr Van Nispen asked me, not in the motion, but in his explanatory statement to it, to come up with this adapted planning in the spring, because it is a fact that this adapted planning will come about. I can go along with that. I would have preferred to look at it more carefully and for a little longer, but I take Mr Van Nispen's challenge to come up with it quickly, so that the Chamber knows where it stands; I also taste that challenge with Mrs Swinkels and other Members. I will explain the motion in such a way that I will come to the Chamber in the spring with the modified schedule. In doing so, I can leave this motion to the House. The motion in part No. Mr Van Oosten's 305 concerns modernisation and the situation of victims. It will be clear that this motion sounds very sympathetic to me. I leave the debate to the House on whether this and other motions are too much in anticipation of the legislative process, of course, but I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten and Mr Recourt, who co-signed this motion, that the position of victims needs more attention than it seemed in the contour note. That is why I am happy to take up this challenge and leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. In fact, 306 of Mr Recourt has already dealt with parts of the law; this applies to both Mr Recourt's motions. I am, of course, in favour of the points raised by Mr Recourt. Under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Netherlands is obliged to take due account of the best interests of the child; that will not be surprising. The same goes for the search. I am prepared to include this point of departure in the legislative text. I'm getting to the point of staying in the police cell. Mr Recourt asks me to limit this stay to three days. That point was also raised by Defence for Children. Recently, in response to the recommendations of the Children's Ombudsman, I indicated that I would like to leave the scheme unchanged on this point. The reason for this is that these are exceptional cases. The young person, if there is reason to do so, will, in principle, go to a judicial youth establishment as soon as possible. I would like to look at how I can further strengthen this point of departure. I am convinced that we can make another move on that point. Finally, Mr Recourt asked the government to lay down the rules on criminal proceedings against young people in such a way that minors would be kept in insurance and in remand less than is currently the case. The time limits for pre-trial detention are already shorter than those for adults: 30 days instead of 90 days. This is also reflected in the new regulation. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that Mr Recourt draws attention to these points and would like me to include them in the legislative proposals, then I will leave it to the Chamber to decide on the motion. If Mr Recourt says 'it has to be done along these lines and it will not be done differently', it will be complicated, because it is precisely on this point that I would very much like to keep looking at the coherence and I want to continue to be able to deliver tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	I also used the short suspension to discuss. I can inform you that I am going to amend the motion in such a way that the second request, on the shortest possible trial period, will lapse. It is not that it should not be as short as possible, because of course it must be as short as possible. However, it should be as short as possible in a way that you can achieve the best for the child. Mrs Van Toorenburg will co-sign the amended motion and perhaps the VVD spokesperson will do the same. So there's going to be an amended motion. In my introduction, I have already said that the motion is intended to push a little towards where it should go. So the maximum of three days is just standing there. However, we will look at how things work out by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	I can live with that premise. This is also in line with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. I would suggest that we still leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber along those lines. I consider her an incentive to ensure that the stay in a police cell is kept to a minimum. The last motion by Mr Recourt, on item No. 307, it's about the recovery right. Mr Recourt and I have discussed this on a number of occasions. There is no need for a legislative amendment to allow the recovery law to apply. The last change in the law has been well secured. However, as part of the long-term planning for tackling victim policy, I will report to the Chamber on the structural application of recovery law. Of course, this includes the mediation part. However, I should like to say quite frankly that there is still a financial problem here that I will have to deal with with with pain and difficulty. For the time being, it will have to take place within the resources available. I see the motion as a call for some forms of recovery law to be implemented where possible, for example through a General Measure of Governance, which has already been incorporated into the law. If I may explain the motion along those lines, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. I skipped one more question. Before Mrs Helder gives me a chance to answer that question, I will answer it. This is a question she really asked. It also happens that Mrs Helder does not ask questions, but I will answer them. However, this is what she really put. She asked if there was anything else I could say about the government commissioner. I have also heard other Members of the Chamber speak about this. I have indicated in general consultation that it is not necessary in the chosen project structure for the preparation of the legislative proposals to appoint a government commissioner. I have also said that the alternative is already in place: the Chamber can always invite the experts already involved with an independent opinion, such as Special Adviser Knigge or one or all the members of the Advisory Committee, to exchange views on the proposals. This also applies when the legislative proposals are before the Chamber. That is why, and because the change is not a fundamental change either, because the foundations have been established since the 1998-2004 discussion, we do not believe that a government commissioner is necessary. If, however, the Chamber is not sufficiently convinced, so I have also understood Mr Recourt from the care with which this process is handled, namely with a special advisor and an independent advisory committee, we can of course always have that debate. Mrs Helder was still entitled to this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thanks for that. Thank you also for the fact that all motions are "judgement chamber." That's not what we've been through. Next Tuesday we will vote on the motions.
