ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. He will be with us all evening for various debates, first for this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. Experts have thought that toasters can get very hot, so they can be very dangerous. It's not safe to hold your hands against the toaster for some time. Extra isolation is the motto. The argument for this is: the supervisor, read: the NVWA, thinks it is too dangerous, it can, so it has to. The fact that no incident has yet been reported at the millions of toasters on the market does not change that. Some form of proportionality is lacking. As a result, manufacturers in Europe need to invest hundreds of millions to adapt their production processes. The Dutch market is worth 10 million. This line pressure must be pressed immediately. The Netherlands will therefore have to vote against a formal objection in the European Committee for Standardisation in November. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, at European level, the Netherlands is in favour of strengthening the product requirements for the safety of household appliances such as toasters, waffle irons and airfryers;]] [[Whereas in Europe these devices are already subject to sound product requirements which are also considered satisfactory by a majority of Member States;]] [[Whereas hundreds of millions of such devices have been sold in Europe and there is no known incident of anyone who has been seriously burned;]] [[Whereas such unnecessary tightening of safety standards would mean that all manufacturers would have to redesign and re-create part of the range, with all the costs involved;]] [[Whereas the fight against regulatory pressure has always been and still is the Dutch commitment;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from its efforts to further strengthen the above-mentioned safety standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziegs and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-259]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u3	Mr Mulder of the CDA asked for this VAO at the time in connection with uncertainties surrounding Actal. That is why we are jointly tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas reduction of burden pressure is a policy objective;]] [[Whereas external advice on avoiding unnecessary burdens through new legislation and regulation has added value;]] [[Calls on the Government, Actal, to move smoothly into an external college to avoid unnecessary burdens, while maintaining sufficient budget, and not to place this college with any part of the government;]] [[calls on the government also to allow the watchdog to do its job at the start of the legislative process, at the version for consultation and at the Ministerial Council version,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziegs, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Ziengs for tabling our joint motion. The terms of office of Actal expire on 1 June 2017. Actal will make sure that everything is looked at. What about the line pressure? What are the effects of this? The CDA thinks it is extremely important that we continue to keep an eye on it. Before you know it, it's all gonna expand. That can't be the intention. If you do that, and if you have a watchdog like that, it must really be independent. That was the concern of our group, and that is why I asked for this VAO. It really needs to be done independently. It really can't be put in one of the ministries. That is why we have also tabled this motion and hence the call from the CDA. We hope that the Minister will be admissible and support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u5	I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes so that the Minister can see the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u6	Mr. Chairman. The situation around the toasters is perhaps a little more nuanced than Mr Ziengs just suggested. I'd like to try to bring that nuance in. There is a European safety standard for electrical products such as toasters. It is laid down in a directive, which we have implemented in the Warenwet. It states, among other things, that such a product must not cause combustion. If you put your fingers in a toaster like that, you know you burn yourself, but you assume you won't burn yourself if you grab it on the outside. There is a European safety standard to prevent that from happening. Businesses must develop such standards technically. It comes with a so-called private technical standard. If such a private technical standard is a good effect of what is stated in the directive and thus in the Dutch Warenwet, the European Commission points out such a private standard as a provision that meets the legal requirement. Such a private arrangement is then, as it were, adopted by the European Commission. That concludes that it is good what is in that standard and that a company that meets it also meets the legal requirement laid down in the laws of the 28 countries as a result of the directive. Now that private standard for toasters allows the manufacturer to let a toaster warm if there is a sticker on the outside of the toaster that says: watch out, this thing is getting hot. The European supervisors have decided that this is not enough, because someone who is uninhibited with the device, for example someone who is young or someone who is thinking somewhere else, is not always going to read those stickers. A guy like that doesn't think about it all the time. He grabs one of those toasters. If it burns itself, it's not good. That is why the European regulators have said to the European Commission that it is a good thing that it has adopted the manufacturer's private standard, but that it is not good on this point. Therefore, the European Commission should, according to the supervisors, state that the private standard is not usable in this respect and that this part of that private standard should be replaced. The European Commission has looked into this and indicated that it agrees with it. This means that this component must be changed into the manufacturers' private standard. That's very good. That is why we have the European standard. That is why we have the supervisors. If, in practice, they come to the conclusion that there is an undesirable situation that needs to be corrected, and if the European Commission is looking at it and believes that this should be done, we must do so. We have an interest in ensuring that the European Commission regulates this equally for all 28 countries. A Dutch factory can therefore sell its products in all 28 countries of the European Union without having problems with authorisation and the like. I therefore believe that we should hold on to this. This is also in the interest of business. There are also companies that easily meet this standard, because they have made their products so that they do not pose any problems in the field of heating up. The other companies, which did not take care of it properly, should still do so. That is why I would advise against the motion by Mr Ziengs and Mrs Gesthuizen in respect of item No. 259.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u7	The Minister says he wants to make some nuance in this respect, but what nuance does he want to make about the number of supervisors that actually felt something about this? These are 28 countries, but my information shows that only three regulators have joined forces and have finally come to an opinion on the basis of the standards set by the private sector itself, as the Minister said. Does the Minister also realise that only a very small minority of supervisors think so? There's only three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u8	It is good that Mr Ziengs brings that further nuance. It works at BEREC, that organisation of European supervisors, as follows. If a number of supervisors are confronted with something and have an opinion on it, they have the opportunity to raise it jointly with the European Commission via BEREC. That's what happened. The European Commission has looked into this and reached a conclusion that I consider reasonable in itself. I therefore believe that it is good to have what the European Commission and the consumer protection regulators have assessed as useful implemented in this way. This is ultimately in the interests of manufacturers. They will then be able to dispose of a product throughout Europe that is not subject to further discussion. A number of manufacturers are already complying with the standard and a number of others will still have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u9	I have another supplementary question, Mr President. Is the Minister also aware that there have been zero incidents since 2007? There are no known incidents after 2012, when the standard has been tightened. The Minister is also Minister for regulatory pressure. The manufacturers themselves say that it must cost 10 million to implement this in the production process here in the Netherlands. In Europe, it must cost even 100 million. It will be clear to the Minister for Regulatory Pressure that what we are now trying to establish is actually a nonsense? So I ask the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u10	The question of whether or not it is nonsense has been considered by the supervisors and the European Commission. The European Commission has said that it considers that this part of that private standard does not meet the requirements set and intended by the Commission. It is not the case that the Netherlands does something special with this. What the European Commission has said about this applies to all European countries. So it applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to all those other countries. Mr Ziengs says: there are no complaints. But if he or I roast a sandwich in the morning and we grab that thing, we'll burn our hands. Then we pull our fingers back from it, hold them under the cold tap and continue again. Well, it's kind of annoying that you burned yourself. Maybe that's how I don't know how many times they've gone. A number of times the supervisors will have been informed about this. That is why they have come together, discussed this and come to the European Commission with this opinion. In my view, what is happening here is really something the European Commission should do. It must set that standard. It can leave it to the business community if the impact of industry also complies with this standard in material terms. Where this is not the case in a section, the European Commission can entrust corrective action to the supervisors. That makes sense to me. That is why I did not recommend this motion by Mr Ziengs. The second motion, in part No. Mr Ziengs, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Mulder, deal with Actal. I don't think there's a big disagreement between the Chamber and me about Actal. I myself have come up with a very early assessment for the future of Actal. Actal is temporarily set. Actal could not be renewed any longer. That wasn't legally possible. So something new had to happen to it. That must be the case 1 June next year. I initiated this very early, in consultation with the Chamber and also with Actal and within the Council of Ministers. What are we supposed to do with that? I and the Council of Ministers are in favour of a critical approach to regulatory pressure. We believe that there should be an external watchdog that intervenes at an early stage of the legislative process and reports on the effects of the proposed legislation and regulations. It is the intention, as Mr Ziengs said, to reduce this regulatory burden. In the spring report rule pressure I wrote that there will be a successor of Actal. I have also indicated that I came up with this information so early and started that consultation because I would like to see a smooth continuation of Actal's important activities. It's not like everything Actal does goes through. We need to focus on a number of things, specifically on that line pressure. We are going to fill out the more strategic advice in a different way. The cabinet therefore agrees with the proposers of the motion when they say that there must be a strong supervisor. However, I would like to take a closer look at what precise times the supervisor has to do his work at. I am in agreement with my colleagues on this. The motion already states that it must be done at the start of the legislative process, at the version before the consultation and at the Ministerial Council version. So that's three times. I don't know if that's optimal. We're still looking into that. I would ask the Chamber to give me an opportunity to come forward with a proposal for the autumn report, if I also come forward with information on the regulatory burden and the further impact on Actal. That proposal can then be assessed by the Court and it can therefore consider whether it is necessary to give an opinion on the matter. The foregoing will not be necessary for the part of the motion in which the College is requested not to place Actal with the Government. I agree that the watchdog should be independent. I have explored the possibilities of putting Actal in one way or another with the Audit Service of the Empire, the Council of State, the Central Planning Office or the General Court of Auditors, but I think this will be at the expense of independence. An independent supervisor will therefore continue to exist. In that respect, we have no disagreement with the Chamber. My conclusion is that the motion in part No. 260 is in line with what I'm doing, but I'd like to finish my own homework first. I would therefore like to see the motion held until the autumn report on the regulatory burden. At that time we can see whether we are on the same page or whether the Chamber feels the need to make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u11	I would like to know when we can sort of look forward to that autumn report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u12	I will ensure that the autumn report is so early in the Chamber that it has ample opportunity to take note of it before Christmas and to discuss it with me, if the Chamber so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u13	We're gonna have a little more discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-21.u15	I thank the Minister for his input. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next week, unless they are held.
