ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service to the Upper House. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. The aim of the current legislative amendment is to allow authorised institutions to invest in third-party buildings in the context of rental, cultivation and maintenance activities, with public money intended for social housing, all for the purpose of creating housing for status holders, asylum seekers who have a residence permit. This can only be done when a municipality needs it and there are no other parties available. In the meantime, the cabinet itself has made sure that municipalities need it. For some time now, it has been holding municipalities to their throats by forcing them to house 46,000 status holders who are currently staying in asylum-seekers' centres alone this year, because the cabinet wants to use the places they hold in azc's for newly-influed asylum-seekers. That is hardly possible, so the cabinet is trying to get some movement through emergency measures such as this change in the law. The investment that corporations are allowed to make a third-party property habitable is as much as €10,000 per intended rental unit. Some municipalities also provide status holders with a €10,000 institutional budget. It may cost a bit, such an asylum tsunami. The corporations also pay for the costs of the interim renovation of the rental units at the departure of tenants, so there is also a number of investments. At least 50% of these buildings are to be occupied by licence holders. The other rental units can then be filled with other groups eligible for social rent. After all, the waiting lists are long for everyone and co-housing is good for the integration of licence holders, so one argues with the government. I really wonder who wants to live voluntarily in a property full of licence holders. I don't think anyone. And those who do, are most likely on the assumption that they are all grateful, highly educated pharmacist families from Aleppo who cannot wait to integrate into our Dutch society and culture. They have been successfully brainwashed with the lies of the left, which have been rammed in through the media and the education system. At the request of the PVV group to the Minister how he himself estimated the interest among residential residents to live with licence holders in a building, the Minister replied that there is indeed animo. This is due to the fact that several initiatives have already been launched to bring together different groups. He mentions a number of projects by name, such as Genderhof in Eindhoven, where empty homes in a nursing home were filled by young labour migrants from Poland and ggz-patients, a project that led to many problems and unrest among elderly residents. The Riekerhaven project in Amsterdam also praises the Minister as an example of the interest in living in a building with licence holders. A complex that still has to be built. So the Minister's written answer shows that he either misunderstood my group's question or that he did not get the right answer. He mentions purely examples that show that housing corporations and municipalities are interested in it. However, the Minister knows as well as I do that the people who make up the service there are left-wing idealists who prefer to play "makeable together" all day long. They think that putting young single Syrian and Eritrean men together with Dutch students will lead to good integration. I'm telling you, it's going to lead to a lot of misery. The PVV has therefore asked the Minister to ensure that property seekers with an urgent declaration, who are offered a residence in a status building, can refuse that offer without losing their urgency statement. We have also asked for an apology scheme for status holders, so that property seekers can get their previous place back on the waiting list if they want to leave within six months of acceptance of such a property. There is a good chance that people looking for a home will initially be in favour of accepting a property in a status building, but after a few months because of damage and shame have become wiser and want to get out of their homes. That means they'll be back on the waiting list. Both requests have been dismissed by the Minister, for the reason that this is the competence and responsibility of corporations and municipalities, where he does not wish to enter. This cabinet maintains the asylum system under which the Netherlands suffers, but refuses to take responsibility to mitigate its effects on the house seekers. That is why my group has tabled the following motions. The President shall: Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Kops, Mr Markuszower, Mr Dercksen and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a general rule, applicants for housing who give a declaration of urgency who refuse to accept a dwelling offered to them lose their urgency;]] [[Whereas many persons seeking accommodation with an urgent opinion belong to vulnerable groups;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that those seeking a residence with an urgent opinion who refuse to accept a dwelling offered to them in a "statusholder' house do not lose their urgency statement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The President shall: Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Dercksen, Mr Kops and Mr Markuszower proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a risk that those seeking accommodation from the SGEI group may initially be positive towards accepting a house in a mixed "statusholder' building, but that their rosy image may be disappointing in practice;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce an regret scheme for mixed "statusholder" premises so that, within six months of the acceptance of such a property, property seekers can take their previous place on the waiting list if they wish to leave the "statusholder" property,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34403-G]] [[She's getting No. kst-34403-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u3	Finally, Mr President. The asylum system causes insoluble problems in the social housing market. This legislative amendment is therefore a textbook example of mopping with the tap open. It is time for this cabinet to close the borders and stop the asylum system. It is time that this cabinet cares not only about the pharmacist from Aleppo, but also about the gardener from Tilburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today is a special day, a day when the SP Group can vote in favour of a bill tabled by this Minister of Housing. In order to provide asylum-seekers with housing, this year the housing corporations will build almost 15,000 additional homes or convert buildings into housing units. The conversion, rental and operation of residential units in buildings not owned by the corporations is not permitted under the new Housing Act. The legislative proposal we are discussing makes this possible, because it has been shown in the discussions with the municipalities that the private sector is not going to take care of this. We have long known that you do not need private investors and operators to make and operate affordable housing. We therefore wholeheartedly support this extension of the too restrictive housing law. Whether or not the Minister does so is less clear. For example, he limits the duration of the law to five years. And, what we find more disturbing: the Minister also wants to maintain the so-called market test for projects under this new law. Each project must first examine whether a private company does not want to start before a housing corporation can start working. We already knew that forced market forces often lead to additional bureaucracy. But in this case it is very bizarre: the corporations are allowed to deal with these projects because private companies do not do so, but each project still needs to be looked at separately whether this might not be the case. When it comes to their ideological stickhorses, the market fetishists are not too crazy. The SP, on the other hand, is in favour of removing unnecessary rules. Unfortunately, we cannot find a majority in favour of this. That is why I ask the Minister to report the results of the benchmarks to the Chamber every year so that we can all make a good assessment of their usefulness. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the need for new housing for asylum-seekers and the waiting lists of people who are dependent on housing in the social sector. There is a shortage of affordable rentals in many places in our country. This is because many social housing has been sold, many homes have disappeared from the social housing stock as a result of rent increases and the new building of social housing has declined significantly. Over 260,000 social housing units have disappeared in the last six years. These negative developments are the result of conscious intervention by the government. In particular, the landlord levy has had its negative impact. He seems useful to me for this debate to recall to whom we owe this levy: first of all, the VVD, the PVV and the CDA, which came up with this tax in their coalition agreement in 2010. Furthermore, we owe this to the VVD, the PvdA, D66, the Christian Union and the SGP, which doubled the levy in their 2012 residential agreement. As the stock of social housing collapsed, the number of people dependent on these homes grew. The beneficiaries are only a very small part of this. Therefore, in order to remove the growing waiting lists and reduce the waiting time for a social home, we should not try to think away the people who rightly get asylum in our country. We need to stop the demolition of the social housing sector and drive the new construction of social housing so that our children, with less income, can still find a home. It is probably in vain, but I would ask the Minister whether there are any new initiatives to be expected from him in this respect. I am curious to hear his answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u5	Does the Minister have an opportunity to answer directly? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u6	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Weerdenburg expressed her displeasure about the foreign policy of the cabinet in general and more specifically about the share of the housing market in it, for which I am particularly responsible. I would point out to Mrs Van Weerdenburg that the Netherlands has signed and complied with international conventions. At the same time, in the last six months in which the Netherlands was President of the European Union, the Netherlands has taken initiatives to take concrete measures with the European Union, and in consultation with Turkey, among others, to better regulate the influx. These measures are currently leading to a significantly lower inflow. But again, that does not relieve us of our treaty obligations. As far as the housing market is concerned, legislation long ago stipulated that those who are recognised as refugees, in proportion to the size of the municipality, should be distributed among those municipalities. So that's where the housing question lies. There are undoubtedly municipalities in the Netherlands that have to deal with a tense housing market and a shortage of social housing, but this does not apply everywhere. A few weeks ago, for the first time, I published a national survey of the size of waiting lists and actual search times in order to give more insight into the urgency of the problem. This study shows large differences between different parts of the country. Mrs Van Weerdenburg is quite right, however, and Mr Köhler was right in saying that in a number of regions the housing market is being squeezed. For this reason, the cabinet has made available a subsidy scheme for extra, sober housing, which allows additional rentals to be added to a small amount of money. Just for that large proportion of single recognised refugees, this offers a faster perspective on a home, but also for those who have been looking for a rental home in the Netherlands for a long time. The subsidy scheme is properly used. I've also sent reports on this to the Chamber. Mrs Van Weerdenburg's speech in two specific motions. In the motion on letter G, the government is requested to ensure that those seeking a residence with an urgent opinion who refuse a residence offered to them in a status building do not lose their urgency statement. The concept of "urgency declaration" is a local concept. There is no national registration of waiting lists or of urgency. Local agreements are made on the way in which this is completed. The refusal of a social housing accommodation by people who have been designated on grounds of urgency is extremely common. I'm still struck by the story that I consistently hear from corporate directors from Amsterdam, the place with the longest waiting lists, knowing that they get an average of ten visitors for a vacant rental before it is accepted. Apart from the status-holder question, currently in Amsterdam an average of nine people refuse, who must have been on the waiting list long before they are eligible for a viewing, before a tenth has been found who accepts the social housing. It is up to the housing corporations in Amsterdam and in other places to assess, in consultation with the municipality, how the urgency is handled. I also think it makes sense to have that consideration made locally. That is why I reject the first motion. In the motion on letter H, the government is asked to introduce an apology scheme for people who have accepted a residence in a complex where status holders also live and who would regret it. Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked if I knew any examples of this. I try to visit house corporations every week. Last Monday I was in Bodegraven. That's where I visited one of those complexes. I can also recommend that Mrs Van Weerdenburg do so. I have spoken with satisfied residents, partly residents with refugee status, partly residents of Dutch origin. But I have also seen other examples. This motion also calls for national regulations to be announced for maintaining or not maintaining the status of urgency. With the same justification as in the first motion, knowing that I consider this to be a local consideration and that I do not now have national regulations for them but I would not like them to have them, I would advise against the second motion. Mr Köhler has today declared himself an historic day because he wants to support a cabinet bill. Luckily, I've had such a historic day before. The Housing Act, on which this bill amends again, was previously supported by the SP. Luckily, we manage to find each other more often. I therefore hope that it will succeed again in the future. At the same time, Mr Köhler had a few questions and comments. His first remark was that individuals would not provide housing for status holders. In the reports I have published on the use of the subsidy scheme, it is clear that in the first few months there are many more applications from private landlords than from housing corporations. I am not entirely surprised, because there are quite a few buildings empty in the Netherlands that can find a very good new destination as a living space, whether for status holders or for others. There is therefore a great deal of interest in this. Mr Köhler asked why the scheme was limited to five years. The law offers the possibility to invest a maximum amount of €10,000 in another person's property. An investment in another's property is normally a non-business investment. You build plumbing in someone else's building, but you don't own it. You take a bigger risk than when you invest in your own property. That is why we are making sure that this is done with a number of guarantees. The amount of €10,000 was chosen because we came to the conclusion after consultation with all kinds of experience experts that you can reasonably do that renovation for that amount. It has been chosen for that five-year period, because we want to be able to insert the thermometer from time to time in order to assess whether there is still a need to make this kind of strange investment. Mr Köhler asked about the meaning of the market test. That actually has the same reason. I indicated that there is indeed an interest of private property owners in making investments. Then I am not concerned about the fact that social capital is invested in other people's properties. If that happens, the money will remain available to the housing corporation to do its other useful work. I have seen complexes where this happened mixed up, with as an example again Bodegraven, where a private manager did part of the rental and a housing corporation did another part of the rental. So that's the construction that happens. By applying a light market test, we are not making life unnecessarily difficult, but we are creating an extra thought: should there really be social capital in someone else's property or could the owner have just done so himself? Mr Köhler made the point about the negative effect of the landlord levy. I have also thought that I have sent to the First Chamber the national overview of the spending area per municipality and per housing corporation, which shows that with the landlord's tax as it is now, there is still a considerable national investment capacity. This may vary from municipality to municipality, but nationally this adds up to very large investments in new buildings or in existing stock. I can answer Mr Köhler's question as to whether I have any additional measures. I also announce this in the letter on the evaluation of the landlord levy. This evaluation shows that in the scarcity areas, i.e. those parts of the country where the housing market is indeed pinching, an extra boost is needed for the construction of really cheap rental houses: not those expensive social housing houses that have been built too much in recent years, but a boost for the really cheap social housing. An additional discount is offered in the landlord's tax. There is also an extra incentive for Rotterdam-Zuid, because of the agreements already made with Rotterdam-Zuid by previous Cabinets. There is also an additional incentive for shrinking areas. I also propose an increase in the threshold, for example, to give extra air to complexes of courtyards, which are often social housing. All this is contained in a legislative proposal that will be submitted to Parliament. The answer to Mr Köhler's question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u7	Then we have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u8	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. My question whether we can get an annual report on the market test has not been answered, or I have to understand the Minister's answer so that he has implicitly said yes. But I'd like to hear the confirmation of that. Usance in business is that there is a great deal of objection to subsidising the Netherlands, except if one can qualify for it. But it is now more about the projects that no private individuals want to start and which municipalities have found themselves having to call for the help of the corporations. This is made possible by this law, but then there will still be a market test. I believe that this test is pointless and unnecessary, but the annual report must show whether the Minister's assessment is correct. I am pleased that, in my view, there are still a number of proposals to encourage housing, which are far too positive of the Minister's assessment of the landlord levy. That is what we are going to talk about. Maybe there will indeed be a proposal from the Minister to which we can give our support. The more, the merrier, of course. A word about the input of the PVV, which has not responded to my position on its own responsibility for the shortage of social housing. The PVV comes with motions where...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u9	Mr Köhler's question can be reflected immediately. Isn't it true that if we close the borders, we can give the social housing we have in the Netherlands to the people who have been on the waiting list for so long? You say that the borders must remain open and we simply build as much as we need. How many would you like to build: 200,000, 500,000, 1 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u10	I have just pointed out that over 260,000 homes have disappeared from the social stock in the last six years. So it's not just a problem how much we have to add to it over and over again. If this policy, partly due to the landlord's levy, which was partly caused by your party, has caused us to lose so many social housing, then that is the problem. If we had not disposed of these 260,000 homes from the social stock, including on your proposal, we could have placed all those people who are now on the waiting list and all those asylum seekers, who are, by the way, only a small group in relation to the first group. But none of this has happened, because of the bad government policy in this area, which we have criticized year in, year out. However, it is not the case that of the number of people seeking housing who cannot find a suitable home in the Netherlands, the asylum beneficiaries are the largest group. That's maybe 10% of that whole thing. Why are you putting the problem there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u11	I note that for the SP, the asylum system has no or minimal influence on the problems of the social housing market. I think your constituents will be surprised, but so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u12	Well, I think our supporters are pretty close to that. In the many rental actions and actions for affordable housing that we carry with people all over the country, you hardly find that the best solution is to close the borders. Everywhere people see that you have to stop selling out the social stock and that you have to build more affordable homes. Everywhere, also in the neighborhoods where your party unfortunately still gets a lot of votes. The PVV's motions are very much based on the fact that house seekers can only go to one place to find their own neighbors. Those are people who sit in a building with status holders in it. Well, that will hardly ever happen in practice, because in those buildings it is almost all about independent homes, the housing units. You don't lose your urgency and your place on the waiting list for an ordinary social home. But even if that happens, why should you be allowed to pick your own neighbors in one type of housing, with some sort of regret scheme? That is something we can introduce for people who, through experience, want to leave their PVV-voting neighbours after six months, but we do not. That's just unworkable. I'm really wondering why the PVV is doing that here. The Riekerhaven project is located in Amsterdam, where I happen to live.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u13	I would like to point out that you are having a debate with the Minister and not with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u14	I thought I could have a debate with my colleagues. I would therefore like to say something about the Riekerhaven project. The PVV spokesperson asked: do you think people are stupid enough to want to live in buildings like that? Yeah, there's a storm coming up with the applications. These are notifications from asylum recipients who would like to live more integratedly with others, but also from Dutch young people who would like to. Perhaps Mrs Van Weerdenburg should ask them why they want that so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u15	The Minister states that he has the opportunity to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u16	Mr. Chairman. I have not yet answered Mr Köhler's question as to whether I can provide an annual review of the market tests; Mr Köhler is right. I can do that when it comes to housing corporations that are going to carry out market activities after such a market test. Indeed, that part is reported to the Authority housing corporations. I cannot do that, at least not precisely, if it is not done by housing corporations, because private investors do not have to report anything else to the authority. If Mr Kohler can live with the fact that I can only deliver the first part, I am happy to say so. It seems logical to me that we should then do so in the State of Housing. That is the annual overview of the state of social housing in the Netherlands. Also out of my own interest I will try to find out in which part of the cases the market test leads to a choice for corporations and in which part of the cases that leads to a choice for the market. However, that last part will be less precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-13.u17	Would any of you like to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the bill and both motions.
