ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment to the First Chamber. First of all, Mr Flierman, who is now on his way to the Chamber, has the floor. In the meantime, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate a few Members. Mr Flierman has now arrived. Mr Flierman, we await your contribution with sorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year we celebrated 200 years of State-General and also the closure of 200 years of Kingdom. We could have also celebrated more than 200 years of legislation in the physical domain. Until recently, in the Mining Act of 1810 we had a last remnant of French law. Parts of the at that time regulated go into the Environment Act that we are discussing today. Reichswaterstaat or its predecessor was established in the Constitution of 1814. So we are talking about a policy field in which the government has been active for a long time. We often learn that the government at the end of the nineteenth century began to develop from a night watchman state to a welfare state, but in the physical domain there was already an active role throughout the nineteenth century that went beyond one that suited to a night watchman state. The historian Auke van der Woud in his book Het emptige land gives a beautiful picture of the prestige of the Netherlands between 1815 and 1850, and he shows how the national government takes the first steps towards a further interpretation and design of our country. And by the way, that role is much older than our kingdom. You can even say that the oldest forms of government in our country concerned the physical domain, namely water safety. And even in ancient times, high quality was sometimes realized in the physical environment. I am thinking of the canal belt of Amsterdam, in a physical sense, but also of the polarities such as the Schermer and the Beemster or fortified cities such as Bourtange and Willemstad. My first two examples relate to initiatives by a local government, but it was a government which accounted for a quarter of the influence in the country of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. If we want to give space to the local initiative with the Environmental Act, we are in a centuries-old tradition. The process of designing and regulating the physical environment has become considerably more complicated since the nineteenth century; it has become an indistinguishable blur of interests, procedures and rules. The present law is the translation of the government's legitimate ambition to create order in that chaos and to make matters more transparent. "Simple and better" is the working title of the introduction process for a reason. But this law also fits in with a next stage in the physical design of our country; a phase where there is no longer primary growth and expansion, where in many cases agricultural land is given a different destination. Globalisation and sustainability challenges, but also shrinking, force us to place developments in a responsible, sustainable, but also effective way in the already filled physical space. The country may be "off," but that doesn't mean you can sit back. We must also keep this country viable for our children and grandchildren. Last week our first granddaughter was born and that determines once again the meaning that the country has to have in a number of decades. In the opinion of my group in our country, we are now talking about transformation and transition. This paradigm change is in line with a contemporary legislative instrument that we believe should be future-proof. The present bill is a magnum opus, which has been working on for years. The motion of CDA member Hein Pieper from 2009 asking for a thorough revision of the ro-law could be seen as a start. Hail to all those involved in the preparation: lawyers and other experts at different ministries and, of course, the Ministry of Minister, provinces, municipalities, water boards, domes, advisory bodies and so on. We see it as a major achievement that such a complex matter is coherently integrated into a single law. It is also remarkable that this legislative process is surrounded by little commotion or sharp criticism, which is also worth a compliment to the Minister and her staff. Considering that, you're wondering what else the First Chamber can add to that discussion. However, we would be failing ourselves, as well as the Minister and all those involved, if we did not discuss this issue in depth. The Environment Act has two main objectives. First of all, a safe, healthy, physical environment and good environmental quality. Secondly, the efficient management, use and development of physical space. As the current legislation is no longer satisfactory, the government also formulates four improvements: greater clarity, predictability and ease of use of environmental law; a coherent approach in policy, decision-making and regulation; increased administrative discretion; speeding up and improving decision-making on projects. The CDA Group endorses the objectives of this law; objectives that are consistent with important concepts of stewardship and shared responsibility for us. The question is, of course, whether these objectives can be achieved with this law. I will not only focus on legislation in a narrower sense, but also on a number of issues related to the law, such as issues of the relationship between governments, enforcement, ICT and the implementation and transition process, including the cultural change envisaged by this law. Citizen and business, that's what it was all about. The main objectives are there for them; for some improvement objectives so are, others seem more relevant to the government. Citizens and businesses want to realise something, the government wants to channel their plans and sets rules and permits. In this sense, the present proposal is also of great importance to the government itself, because it offers new, perhaps better, opportunities to steer and control development in the physical environment. The government also strives with this law to establish a new relationship with citizens. Much participation is expected. We do wonder whether the expectations are not too high. We're not asking about it? And how do we deal with the disappointment of a citizen who discovers that the development that he wanted to avoid participation will be much more active if one wants to avoid anything than if one wants to promote something, because it involves a higher order of interest. Do citizens realise that the possibility of participation in advance, combined with more generally applicable rules, also means that their remedies and remedies are limited? The desire to speed up decision-making on projects makes sense, but for a citizen it can produce a negative experience. We must prevent the new relationship with citizens from turning into a form of disappointment and thus aversion to politics. In this respect, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has recently made outstanding comments. I would like to hear the Minister on this subject. Then I'll get to the environmental plan. For each municipality there will be one comprehensive environmental plan, which includes both the spatial layout and, for example, the environmental values one wants to achieve or maintain. This should provide more clarity and transparency for users and also for the public authorities themselves than the current multitude of rules and plans. This seems attractive, but I am trying to imagine what this will look like in practice, for example in municipalities I know a little better, such as Rotterdam, Arnhem or my current town of Hof van Twente. In a municipality of some size, the environmental plan will be constantly reviewed, with amendments at all conceivable stages, which always include parts of the municipality or facets. We have to wait and see how transparent that is. I hear that the Minister has put her hopes in digitalisation in this respect, but apart from all the risks associated with that ICT project, the question is whether that is sufficient. Many municipalities have a great diversity in their physical structure: they have one or more residential areas, nature reserves, outdoor area and industrial area. Isn't it better to work for each municipality with a limited area and then really a limited number of plans for larger, more or less similar areas? The environmental plan, as we understand it, is primarily area-oriented, and that means, in my group's view, that we should not stick to one plan per municipality at every price, but should give room to operate large specific parts of a municipality, a port or industrial area such as Rotterdam, with a separate environmental plan. And one more step, it may also be interesting to make a joint environmental plan for a coherent area in several municipalities, for example the Sallandse Heuvelrug. This is clear to all users of the area, but should this plan be separate from the environmental plans made for the rest of the municipalities concerned? For my group, therefore, the question is whether a rigid choice for one environmental plan per municipality is the best possible contribution to the improvement objectives. In the first versions of the law there seemed to be more room in this respect. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to our suggestions. I understand that the introduction law will explain the whole of existing land use plans to the municipal environmental plan. During the transitional phase we are then dealing with an environmental plan, constructed from existing land use plans, changes to those plans, and the new integrated development plan. Would there ever be, and if so, when? How transparent is that all? Do we not run the risk of taking a step back in the beginning instead of achieving an improvement? It is a huge task for all municipalities, especially the smaller ones, to keep up with, understand and oversee all changes, the old and new systems. After all, you have to deal with multiple regimes at the same time. Is there any official capacity for that, quantitatively and qualitatively, we wonder? We would also like to hear a response from the Minister on this transition. We also find it interesting to consider the environmental value, the environmental quality directive. The Empire or the province can determine that value, but also the municipality. How will this work out in practice? If the Empire establishes an environmental value, it binds the municipality, but not the applicants for a permit. For this purpose, the municipality must establish the value established by the State or the Province in its own rules and be involved in the granting of the authorisation. The first question is how the Empire or the Province can enforce this effect. Can the Minister go into that again? In addition, we understand that the municipality can set some targets higher. Do Rijk or Province accept the local choices in this case, and do they have to cooperate in achieving them? If a policy-based European, national or provincial interest opposes municipal policy, it is clear that there will be no cooperation. But if that's not the case, how does it work out? How much space is there for local customization? With the determination of environmental values, Rijk or province can intervene deeply in the municipal administrative balance room; if you are not careful there is little left. How do we prevent that? How do we respect local choices and customization? We'll be happy to get a response from the Minister later. With the previous theme we come to the relationship central-central. The government's written response to this point reassures my group on important aspects. However, I have a few comments to make. In her replies, the Minister refers a lot to the governance agreement between IPO, VNG and the waterboards. Now it is commendable that such an agreement is in place, but I wonder how long it lasts. By the time the law comes into force, the agreement is already five years old, and we are a council, a state, and at least a Second Chamber election further. Then what will have remained of it? I believe that the agreement is already being discussed here and there, and that will certainly not be any less after the elections. Provinces, for example, are already calling for more powers to remove too much planning capacity from municipalities. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's view on the sustainability of the governance agreement once again. Does the Minister see opportunities to give it extra weight and not just allow change? Can the introduction law offer a coat rack for this, for example by making such important agreements explicitly subject to the approval of the government? Earlier, I asked how much consideration space remains at local level. We are dealing with the passage of state environment visions and provincial environmental visions, higher-level environmental values, programmes to achieve these values, project decisions, instructional rules and so on. If the Empire and the provinces are not reluctant to do so, this could lead to a significant reduction. A specific focus is on the opinions of other interested authorities, which a municipality cannot ignore. This may lead to a further limitation of the balancing area, which is particularly burdensome if the municipality does not actually agree with those opinions. We understand that the municipality cannot object to such advice. Is that right? If we're gonna take stock of this, what's the picture? Does the consideration room increase all in all? Is that gonna work? The Environment and Infrastructure Council, for example, is not yet satisfied. We'd like to hear how the Minister sees it. Another focus for our group is enforcement. Regional environmental or implementation services play an important role in this. Last year the CDA Group did not take part in the debate on the VTH Act, because it wanted to make a few comments about this debate. Given the importance of adequate protection of our living environment, a well-functioning enforcement apparatus is of great importance. Therefore, in the VTH Act, the environmental services have been given a firm position. Are the services therefore also the Minister's interlocutor at national level? In addition, provinces have a remarkable double role in these services: they supervise the policies of municipalities carried out by an organisation for which the province is jointly responsible. Isn't that gonna wring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	You ask the Minister whether the environmental services are an interlocutor for her. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	I would think it wise for those services, with all the expertise that is invested there, to be an interlocutor with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	I don't think that's interesting at all. After all, what is the autonomy of the municipalities which manage the common scheme anymore? I think that the alderman and the chairman of the common arrangement should be the minister's interlocutor, not a master of a regional executive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	When it comes to administrative and political issues, I think it is, of course, the directors. In addition, this double role is still an interesting issue, but we will hear the Minister about it later. When it comes to more technical issues, I do not find it illogical that the services themselves, or their leadership, are the interlocutors. We'll see about that in more areas. I refer to the social services of the municipalities which, in terms of implementation aspects of social legislation, are interlocutors with the Ministry of Social Affairs. Moreover, I do not think they should be the minister's interlocutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	You're recovering very well. They may, of course, talk to the officials, but I know from the past that it was also intended to become an interlocutor with the Secretary of State or the Minister. That would not be my preference or, I presume, yours either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	Let me put it this way: it seems logical to me that on this type of technical issues..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I note that we agree on this. The link between the implementation services and the organisation of police and justice is a second point of attention. We believe that cooperation is essential: environmental crime has links with other forms of organised crime. However, we understand that there is no proper connection between the regional implementation services and the systems of the Office. What do we do about it? And then there are the other enforcers: state inspections, special investigators and so on. Apart from a general coordinating task for HS, little has been done with regard to coordination and cooperation. I wonder if the county should not be given a more directing authority. We would like to hear a response from the Minister. I come to an important issue for us: ICT. It is clear that a well-functioning ICT infrastructure under this law and the system of managing the living environment is essential. The discussion of the environmental plan already showed this. Now, when it comes to large-scale ICT infrastructure, our national government has an established reputation. And it's not good. I am not going to list the examples, but also the design of the ICT infrastructure for the Environment Act gives my group cause for considerable concern. If I understand correctly, the government wants at least the current level of service to be maintained when it is introduced in 2018. In the years thereafter up to 2024 it provides for a further improvement in quality. Is that indeed the ambition? Will the Minister confirm that again? In the documents we read how the ICT project should proceed, but also that it is not yet there. We read that there must be a clear division of responsibility between the different parties. So there isn't one yet. I read that there is a "start-up" working group going to work. That's not very reassuring. The fact that there is an administrative consultation at the head of all this is equally worrying. No project management manual recommends such a consultation as a steering gremium. "Intergovernmental decision-making ensures that decisions on possible exceedances are taken in consultation," I read in the response. That's like: everyone co-responsible, no one ultimately responsible. It seems that the government is also translating the approach envisaged in terms of content, where consultation, cooperation and consideration space are at the heart of the ICT project. We wonder if that is wise. It is precisely if you really want the system to work properly in all respects in the future that our group believes that the Minister should have a number of clearly guiding powers in the ICT project. I'm working on this point a little bit further. There will be a dozen so-called information houses, each with its own administrative responsibility. Sometimes that's the minister of I and M, sometimes another minister or a Zbo. In addition, many authorities, including all municipalities, water boards and provinces, need to feed the system with data in order to get a good overview. Those data must be reliable and remain. And then it's not about relatively simple data, it's about complicated data collections, mostly difficult to define. I know from my own experience how complicated it is to define, for example, the concept of'study efficiency', and we are dealing here with a multitude of such concepts. Standardisation of concepts, but also of the technology to be used, for example in interfaces, is essential. It is precisely in the case of standardisation in such a complex situation that a person needs to be able to cut through, not only in the initial phase, but throughout the process, including the realisation of the ambitions after 2018/2019. If you don't, I'll see a drama. Are we, as a government, capable of running such a project ourselves? To what extent is high-quality external capacity also used for a longer period of time? Is that gonna work with the rules on third-party hiring? Is an independent progress report foreseen and, if so, who has access to it? And that doesn't mean we're talking about the budget. It is reported that the Minister will need to obtain some EUR 300 million from her colleague in Finance to enable successful implementation. In short, many questions, great concerns. We would like to hear a response from the Minister on all our questions. I would like to say in advance that a good ICT project, including funding, and successful implementation, which has demonstrated in practice that at least the current level of service provision is maintained, as far as our group is concerned, is a tough condition for supporting the implementation law. Could the implementation of the Environment Act be postponed if the ICT infrastructure is not yet functioning adequately? The government repeatedly stresses that the Environment Act should also involve a cultural change in policy and decision-making regarding physical space. We want more administrative discretion, we want to restore the principle of "decentral, unless," we go from admissions to invitation planning, to more scope for citizen participation and fewer rules. It all sounds nice. And who would be against it? The CDA Group didn't. But cultural change is not regulated by law; these are long and intensive processes. I would like to put a few considerations to the Minister. Culture change stands or falls by example behaviour of the highest management, in this case government and parliament in The Hague. The question is whether The Hague is really willing to give the intended space to provinces and municipalities. I remember a recent discussion on the other side about environmental zoning in inner cities. In addition, not everyone had understood the principle that the local government should have room for choice. In this case, moreover, the Minister held his back, for which he paid tribute. But what about all the discussions about the installation of windmills? Minister Kamp is expressing an intransigence, not only with regard to the objective of achieving it, but also with regard to the way in which he wants to achieve his goals. At that point there should be room for provincial or local choices, but he does not offer them. I would like to hear the Minister's response to these kinds of dilemmas. It is precisely because cultural change is a long-term issue that I am concerned about the political delusion of the day. The examples I mentioned are easy to complement with others. Does the Minister have any thoughts on how to ensure continuity in cultural change, including over multiple elections? A second aspect of cultural change is a move towards more policy space and fewer rules. This is attractive for those who can handle it, but clear and simple rules are also a value in them. When criticising administrative burdens, we sometimes forget that a limited set of clear rules is of great importance in a rule of law. They provide both the citizen and the government with guidance. If the intended cultural change means that at local level we go from far too rigid rules to a situation of "anything goes," then it is the question whether that is the desired change. I have pointed out before that there is a danger that a misapplication of the new system could lead to a great deal of discontent. Moreover, there is a good chance that the system will produce a lot of extra work for lawyers, both in the legal profession and in the judiciary. I would also like to hear a response on this point. Not every municipal civil servant will turn into a potential human being at the time of the legislative amendment of a staff member focused on enforcement. Culture change means a lot of training for civil servants, but also for administrators, representatives of interests, representatives of the people and others. This is, in addition to the cost of ICT, a second major cost in the implementation of this law. Who does that bill end up with? I'll come to a conclusion. I said in my introduction that the CDA Group supports the government's ambitions in this legislative process. These ambitions are in line with CDA ideas. As far as we are concerned, the law and the associated process are the answer to the need for a new toolbox for the design and management of the physical environment in an era in which transition and transformation are more important than growth and expansion. The question is whether this law makes it possible to realise the ambitions. We cannot yet draw any definitive conclusions on this. After all, we will decide next week on a major process of change for legislation in the physical environment. That is an important, but certainly not the last step in that process. We are asked to agree to a framework law, after which a great deal remains to be done in terms of concreteisation, implementation and implementation. I refer to the four major AMvBs, harm schemes, land policy, implementation of other laws and last but not least ICT. Much is still uncertain or unclear. And then I haven't mentioned the intended cultural change: a change that you can't regulate by law. It is only when we have a better view of all these things that you can determine whether the ambitions can be realised. Normally, you'd think it would be irresponsible to say yes now. In the past, for this reason, we have also voted against legislative proposals. However, my group also sees that this complex process of decision-making is difficult to organise differently. The Minister is right to want support for the main line before continuing to develop. The reassuring thing about this legislative process is that in future we will have to discuss the necessary things: the AMvBs, incorporation proposals and, of course, the introduction law. In due course, therefore, we will be particularly critical of this last law, because we want to make sure that, among other things, the local authorities are ready, that cultural change is in progress and that ICT is working in practice. If a positive answer can be given in due course to all these questions, we can vote in favour of the introduction law and the Environment Act can be introduced. Then there is a good chance that these ambitions will be realised. At the end of last year I received with a number of colleagues a bundle of the Association of Environmental Professionals with the report of their congress on a mega-law in the pipeline. In one of the nicest reflections, an employee of the minister moves in the situation at the upcoming congress, in November 2016. On that occasion, he looked back satisfactorily on the legal treatment in this Chamber. "The Minister has promised a few adjustments, which we will take with the Introduction Act," he reflects, "and then a broad majority voted in favour of the bill." Such a statement is, of course, always risky, and you are tempted to prove this employee wrong. However, that did not seem appropriate to me in this case. I am happy to expect that the commitments he is talking about will also respond to questions from our side. We are therefore waiting for the Minister's reply with more than usual interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	I have one more question for Mr Flierman. He indicated that many important matters will eventually be settled by AMvB and that we are only talking about a framework law. Does he not think that this framework law actually regulates too little, for example when it comes to important principles for the assessment of permits and the making of trade-offs? Doesn't he think that this actually belongs at the law level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	This is an issue that has repeatedly come back here in the discussions in the House of Representatives and in the preparation of the debate. We have also talked about this very strongly with each other. However, my group has come to the conclusion that in this case, because you want to be able to apply a certain degree of flexibility to some of these values, it is not surprising to regulate it in the way the Minister is proposing. In this respect, we therefore support the commitment to do so through a general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	I gave just the example of the assessment framework and not the environmental values. In particular, the assessment framework concerns, for example, how different authorities should assess certain types of licences. These are also extremely important decisions of principle. Do you not think that it would be very important, for the sake of clarity, for this law to be regulated at the very level of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	That is, as I said, a consideration. There are arguments and arguments against this. I will not say that Mrs Vos is asking completely absurd questions, to put it briefly, but the CDA groups in the Second and First Chambers support the consideration made by the Minister. So the answer to the question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you. I should like to congratulate you on the enlargement of the family.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my esteemed colleagues for allowing me to make a slight point on the list of speakers with a view to a short external obligation at lunchtime. It's nice it could be arranged like this. In his essay, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau warns about the Environment Act for the Matthew effect. A politically-reformed heart will then beat a little faster. The SCP uses part of this gospel to point out a possible division between citizens who do not have the knowledge and opportunities to participate and those who can. It's good. I was reminded of another part of Matthew: the story of the wise and the foolish builder. The foolish builder lays stones directly on the sandy ground and quickly has a beautiful house. The wise builder first exposes the rock floor and then starts building. It is worth the extra time, because the house of the foolish builder is wiped out by storm and rain and the house of the wise builder remains standing. A wise lesson for building our home of life, but also for building legislative houses: provide a good basis. In any case, this Minister has made a strong commitment to this, and I say this with complete conviction. The neighborhood house was extinct and needed to be replaced. The legislative proposal puts things in order and provides good leads for better policy. The SGP attaches importance to accelerating spatial procedures, reducing research burdens, subsidiarity, adequate protection of important environmental values and maintaining legal certainty for citizens and businesses. An alderman said: "The Environment Act as such is not so exciting. I'm much more curious about the AMvBs. That's where it's gonna happen." That's right. The law mainly regulates procedures and instruments; the substantive standards and rules come into AMvBs. The AMvB determines whether or not to build a railway line. The AMvB determines whether water safety will cost EUR 10, 20 or 30 billion in the coming years. And so on. The SGP is critical of transferring important standards for air quality, water safety and noise pollution to an AMvB. The regulatory indications provide that important rules must be incorporated into the law. The Council of State also warns that the material distinction between laws and AMvBs should not fade. Forwarding procedures are not intended to correct broad delegation. It is a question of democratic legitimacy. Both Chambers of the States-General must remain fully co-legislator with important standards and rules. The government states that bundling at one level is necessary to provide better insight for citizens and businesses. But would it not be better, from the point of view of public awareness, to include important standards and rules in the law and their impact in AMvBs? After all, we also get the Laan for the Environment. This instrument should provide good tools for citizens and businesses. If this works well, pooling of standards at one level is far less relevant. The government would also like to see more room for rapid changes to European rules. I think that's an argument against it. Too often it is unfairly screened with 'the Brussels must'. Adaptation of national legislation by European directives also deserves a parliamentary eye. The government's argument does not outweigh the agreement that important standards and rules should be included in the law. The Minister points out the heavy pending procedure and the fact that the draft AMvBs come to Parliament with the introduction law. I am afraid that the rule system will then be so crystallized that standards and rules can no longer simply be moved. In the short term, will the Minister, in consultation with relevant organisations and parliament, consider how important standards and rules can be incorporated into the law? The SGP Group believes that the high-water protection standard should at least be included in the Environmental Act. The Delta programme indicates that the probability of someone dying from a flood may be up to one thousandth percent per year. This guideline will determine in the coming decades what investments in dike strengthening are needed. This standard deserves full democratic legitimacy and inclusion in the Environment Act. The specific standards for primary quay walls can then be sent to the AMvB. Does the Minister want to work on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	I have a question for Mr Van Dijk on the standard of water safety. I've already forgotten the exact number, but he mentioned the chance of someone dying as a result of an incident involving water safety. If he wants to lay down that water safety standard in the law, why not for all kinds of other risks? Does Mr Van Dijk believe that the risk of your dying as a result of a flood is more serious than death due to air quality or an environmental disaster, or is it another cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u17	Water safety standards are very damaging to our country's existence; without proper flood protection, and so on, half of our country would not exist. Moreover, these standards are subject to a huge price tag for which citizens and businesses have to pay. So it's very relevant what comes out of that. It is precisely because of this profound impact, including on the budget and finances, that full democratic legitimacy must be laid down. This is so essential. Moreover, I have the impression that sometimes we turn things around. I believe that we have agreed with each other, in this house and elsewhere, that important standards and rules should be laid down in the law. I have the impression that the burden of proof is now being reversed. Now you have to prove why you would include those standards in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u18	For me, the question is: why do one risk and the other? Also because there are developments in this type of risk, I can imagine that you are not laying down that kind of thing in the law. To prevent you from having to go through a huge process with each change, you choose to record those things in AMvBs. Moreover, the question is how do you weigh those risks among yourselves, but that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u19	For the sake of clarity, I also propose that the metanorm of the Delta programme be incorporated into the law and that the specific effects for the various dikes per AMvB be regulated. However, I would like to maintain that there is some difference between the number of particles of fine dust in the air and the risk of flooding with very far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u20	I don't know what greater risk is. Is the risk of dying from the effects of inhaling particulate matter greater than the risk of dying as a result of a water incident?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u21	I understand your point very well, but I still maintain that, given the possibilities of existence in our country, it would really be justified to include such important water safety standards in the law. I say this in the same way as the Union of Water Councils, which has made a compelling appeal to us to anchor this in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u23	Administrative bodies should stick to their readings. Many municipalities criticise the way the Empire pushes through wind farms. Provinces regularly interfere with the details of municipal zoning plans. The SGP wants higher authorities to be reluctant to intervene in the policy of local authorities, especially now that provinces are given more room to direct local authorities' environmental policies. The government gives the impression that the clause of subsidiarity in the Environment Act gives less room for higher authorities. That's what I'm wondering. The effectiveness and effectiveness test was already implicit in the Regional Planning Act. In addition, the administrative judge looks more at legality than at efficiency. How will the Minister ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is better anchored? In my opinion, a bottleneck is that provinces or the Empire only have to point to an environmental vision or programme to identify something as a provincial or national interest. Reports show that the administrative judge is quick to take part in this. The problem is that the principle of subsidiarity does not apply to environmental visions or programmes. Name something vague as preventing the dislocation of the landscape a provincial interest and you have all the space to capitalize municipalities. We shouldn't want that. The Minister writes that an environmental vision only binds and thus out the responsible administrative body. That's not true. Municipalities must take into account national and provincial environmental views. Such an environment vision is also decisive for what is considered to be a provincial interest. I therefore ask the Minister to apply the principle of subsidiarity also to environmental visions and programmes. The Environment Act requires municipalities to draw up a programme if environmental values are to be exceeded, even in the case of environmental values determined by the Empire or by a province. The Minister considers that administrative coordination is desirable or desirable. I am questioning this. What does the Empire and provinces care to put sounding environmental values on paper and throw implementation problems over the fence? Municipalities must use measuring devices, draw up research reports and devise and implement measures. Who's gonna pay for that? The SGP sees too many open ends here. How will the Minister ensure that the Empire and provinces also assume their responsibilities in the implementation of environmental values they have established? I come to my final point. The Minister wants to reform the Expropriation Act and integrate it into the Environment Act. The SGP is following this critically. Landowners deserve adequate protection. The right to property is not for nothing the most powerful right we know. The Minister wants the final expropriation decision to be ruled no longer by the civil court, but by the administrative judge. The SGP does not consider this to be a good thing in advance. The decision on the removal of property is part of civil law and must remain there, even when it comes to land ownership. Please be careful over ease. If part of the expropriation story stays with the civil court, is it wise to include the Expropriation Act in the administratively oriented Environment Act? This also applies to the Preferable Law Act municipalities and the National Land Planning Act. Should they not be included in a separate law on land ownership?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. The Environment Act we are discussing today is ahead of us to make spatial developments in the Netherlands more efficient, such as new or wider motorways, in order to tackle congestion. The procedures for building roads are even slower than these traffic jams. A procedure of many decades is no exception. For example, the famous A4 Central Delfland and the N69 south of Eindhoven. Necessary economic developments are too often thwarted by too long procedures. This costs an unnecessary amount of money and is also at the expense of employment. Objections such as subsidised environmental organisations can be endlessly litigated at the expense of taxpayers, i.e. citizens, as collectively or generally concerned. The use of space in the Netherlands leads to a constant conflict between government, interest organisations, businesses and citizens. This is a situation that is becoming increasingly complex, not least because of ever more stringent EU interference such as the Natura 2000 measures. The fact that the Environmental Law should simplify and speed up spatial procedures makes the spirit of the law in principle positive. Space is a scarce asset in the Netherlands. That has a clear reason: The Netherlands is full. With 495 people per square kilometre, our country, except Malta, is the most densely populated country in Europe. And the Netherlands is getting fuller, as the CBS recently calculated, especially because of mass immigration, a large part of which is due to the ongoing asylum invasion. This brings me to the downside of the medal of the Environment Act. Application of the Environmental Law can also lead to the even fuller and denser populationing of this country, making space an even more scarce asset. The wider possibilities for the establishment of asylum seekers' centres, which have been introduced by that government through a general measure of governance as a tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act, remain possible under the Environment Act. Simplifying procedures makes it even easier for the government to saddle people with an azc in their living environment. For this purpose, the rules of participation are excluded, which has turned Thorbecke's house into a squatting of the asylum industry. The citizen has checked this and it does not seem to be getting better under the Environment Act. For example, the submission requirement for an environmental permit on how to inform and involve residents does not represent a great deal in practice. For example, in the province of Noord-Brabant, where experiments with such a form of so-called environmental dialogue are downright disappointing. There is still no real participation. This is the same system as with the establishment of azc's throughout the country: the municipality, COA, Refugee Work and other organisations are creating an information market; there is no room for public debate, let alone for these citizens to be actually listened to. This keeps the appearance that participation has been regulated and grants a municipality a tolerance decision or a temporary environmental permit for the establishment of asylum reception. Is such participation organized from above now involving local residents? Can the Minister indicate in concrete terms how the Environment Act can take the form of civic participation in such a way that residents really get a say in and are really taken seriously? I'd like a response. And not only azc's, but also the installation of landscape destructive wind turbines can be regulated under the Environmental Act with more flexible procedures. Residents face an even greater risk of a wind turbine park in their backyard and the free horizon on the coast is even more threatened with offshore wind farms, especially now that sustainable development is included as a social goal in this law. A view of a peaceful, soothing meadow landscape, undisturbed views of infinite lowland that is so characteristic of our beautiful land, suddenly threatens to be brutally disturbed: only infinitely wandering climate minarets will be seen still at the end. Trouble for the wide circumference of drop shadow and low frequency sound, reduced housing value, that everything comes down to neighbors. And that can already be possible at only 250 meters away from homes, while the nuisance extends farther. Furthermore, Article 16.44 of the Environment Act mentions the possibility of exemption from the mandatory environmental impact assessment if this is necessary because of public interest and immediate implementation. Can the Minister rule out the application of this rule to the installation of wind turbines? In the meantime, the stakeholder concept for local residents under the Environmental Act is not extended, so that many local residents who live a little further away but still suffer from disadvantages still have no legal protection. And those who are interested must make haste: now that the regular procedure under the Environmental Act becomes the main rule, they can only formally object once the environmental permit has been published. However, publication will not take place until later than the College decision to do so, leaving even less time in the objection period. According to Article 16.63 Environment Act, publication is to take place "without delay," but that term is very flexible in practice. Moreover, publication is not uniform, some municipalities publish only via home-to-home magazines and some only via the Internet. Chances are, as a resident, you're gonna miss this message. It becomes even more difficult for projects that take place near the municipal border, which makes it even more likely that a publication of a neighbouring municipality will be missed. Can the Minister indicate how the method of publishing and the timely and complete information of citizens under the Environmental Act will take shape? Does the Minister see opportunities within the Laan for the Environment in this context, including for projects outside its own municipality? The Environmental Act should also allow for a more global environmental plan, in which functions as in the current zoning plan are referred to in less detail. As the Minister himself indicated in the reply, this reduces legal certainty for residents. Under current legislation, for example, a building with a social purpose such as a school can already be used as a mosque without a zoning change; under the Environmental Law this can be extended by municipalities with a global environmental plan. Are residents of any destination likely to be at risk of getting a coffee shop, drug shelter, asylum-seekers' centre or mosque as neighbours, without an objection procedure open to them? Does the Minister agree that this is an undesirable development and what opportunities does the Minister see under the new environmental law system to provide citizens with sufficient legal certainty when implementing an overall environmental plan? In the event of such adverse effects, the granting of planning damages is a possibility under current legislation. For the new Environmental Law, however, the plan damages scheme still has to be regulated in the law. That is why it is completely unclear at the moment what we can expect from this and whether there is sufficient balance to ensure legal certainty in this context. Can the Minister clarify what her intentions are for the plan damages scheme under the new environmental law? Recently, our group had put forward the necessary written questions in response to the progress of the Crisis and Recovery Act; a law that is incorporated fully into this Environment Act. These questions therefore also directly related to the present Environment Act. Unfortunately, the Ministry has not been able to comply with the request to answer these questions for the examination of the Environment Act. It is precisely because of the relationship to the Environment Act that I would like to present the part of the questions relating to the Environment Act in this debate orally, with the request to the Minister to respond. First of all, the amendments to the Environmental Law Decision to which I referred earlier, in particular Article 4 (9) of Annex II to the BOR? Can the Minister indicate whether and how this arrangement will be placed under the new environmental law? Then on the occasion of the 28th of January. Letter sent to the members of the First Chamber of the Local Autonomy Council on the Environment Act in relation to local autonomy and democracy. In the letter, council members from 80 different municipalities express their concerns and criticisms about the way in which the Crisis and Recovery Act is applied in conjunction with state and provincial coordination arrangements. In particular, they call for attention to be paid to municipalities where these schemes are applied in the context of "Wind energy on land." For example, they argue that municipalities, municipal councils and citizens are excluded by the use of the power of perseverance of the Empire and the Province, and that this undermines their position and tasks. A proper justification of a national interest by the Empire would be lacking and municipalities lack the right to appeal. They also point out that citizens end up in a participatory and decision-making process, so that their objections do not have a de facto chance. Does the government recognize these criticisms? What scope is the Environment Act going to provide to address these criticisms of local autonomy and policy space? The concerns expressed in the letter about the legal status of citizens have also been highlighted in the recently published SCP-essay "Don't count outside the citizen! On framework conditions for citizen involvement in the new environment, in which the case "wind on land" plays a central role. For example, this essay states that there is little evidence of ambition to promote citizen participation in the Environment Act and the AMvB. Specifically with regard to civic participation in the development of wind farms, it is stated that the Environment Act is mainly concerned with the financial participation of citizens in wind farms and not so much with regard to participation in plans and implementation. Furthermore, the essay states that there is insufficient openness and sufficient information for citizens in the development of wind farms. To what extent does the government recognise the policy outlined here on the legal status of citizens in the application of the Crisis and Recovery Act in particular in "Wind-on-land" projects? Can the government indicate what improvements can be made to the legal status of citizens and to civic participation in this context under the new Environment Act? Does the government see the need to improve citizens' legal status, to rely primarily on process participation in civil participation rather than financial participation and to ensure adequate information? Having regard to previous considerations on the legal certainty of citizens, the following quote: "The public administration, as embodied in the Netherlands in Rijk, provinces and municipalities, does not take too close account of the most basic principles of governance. We claim to be a rule of law. We pretend to live under the rule of law, which in fact does not mean any more than that any government act in the Netherlands must be based on and justified by the law. This is certainly not always the case with the action of the government in the sphere of spatial planning." This quote comes from the inaugural speech of the late Professor René Crince le Roy from 1972, specialist in spatial planning. In this speech, entitled "Unrighteousness in Spatial Planning," he argued that the government can be expected to act in an ethical manner and to look the public in the eye. As far as spatial planning is concerned, this was not the case at the time, and now that we are more than 40 years further away, it is still not the case, inter alia, in view of the similar criticism from the council letter and the SCP report. Crince le Roy stated that it is also a matter of public administration, that the government is aware that matters such as honesty, fairness and decency also apply to the government. At that time, according to Crince le Roy, entire residential areas were built on the basis of the then Article 19 Landscape Planning Act, indicating that it could be felt as a major objection that, by applying this article, the government escapes the payment of so-called plan damage to those citizens who suffer damage due to deviation from the zoning plan. In 2016, with the new Environment Act, can the government look the public in the eye, precisely when it comes to deviating from existing plans by applying wind farm plans or temporarily deviating plans or being tolerated in need of asylum shelters? Doesn't the mistakes of the past end up again? I'd like a response from the Minister. Not only the citizen himself, but also his representative can be put out of play in the implementation of the Environmental Act. Article 3.4 of the Environment Act contains a shift of powers: from now on it is up to the College of B and W, Deputy States, the daily administration of the Water Authority or the Minister, i.e. the executive, to establish programmes. The same applies to the adoption of a project decision. Without the powers of the public representative bodies, the question is to what extent democratic involvement is still sufficiently secure. I'd like a response from the Minister. As far as implementation is concerned, one more point concerns the cost of setting up an environmental plan by municipalities. The Municipality of Boekel is currently working on a pilot environmental plan, through the Crisis and Recovery Act. Among other things, this municipality is working to include the new theme health in this environmental plan, which was not yet possible with a zoning plan. Last week this environmental plan proved to cost much more time and work than expected: a half-year delay, 30% more expensive and less fees. Because of the many extra work for officials, temporary reinforcement has been hired for the Spatial Planning Department. Can the Minister indicate whether such an increase in costs and additional time pressure can generally be expected when drawing up an environmental plan? To what extent does the Minister expect new issues such as health to have an effect on this? I'd like a response. As stated above, the PVV Group is in principle in favour of the spirit of the law, but we must be careful not to undermine these positive effects on accessibility and economic development by the potentially negative effects outlined, which unnecessarily undermine citizens' interests and make our country even more full and even less liveable. However, many issues remain to be worked out in the AMvBs, after which our Parliament will make the final assessment in the examination of the introduction law. That is why our group is calling for clarification from the Minister on the effects on the establishment of asylum seekers' centres, mosques and wind farms and for a motion to do so. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Dercksen, Mr Van Strien, Mr Kok and Mr Kops proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the positive effects of the Environment Act should not be offset by any negative effects on citizens' interests by facilitating the establishment of asylum seekers' centres, mosques and wind turbine parks;]] [[calls on the Government not to include in the elaboration of the General Administrative Measures on the basis of the Environment Act any measures that allow such facilitations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. Today we are going to talk about the Environment Act, a bill that includes 26 laws, 120 AMvBs and an equal number of ministerial regulations, and which has been discussed with the most diverse interest groups, with the aim of clarifying the law and removing duplications. It's a bit of a fuss, for which I'd like to congratulate the Minister. You can allow yourself to be honored with a statue after a period of government, but you would rather still leave behind a law in which, in your opinion, something good is done. This Minister has succeeded very well, but that does not mean that by definition she will also be able to get the hands of this whole Chamber together. The SP would not be the SP if it did not make any comments or critical note. I also have a number of questions and wishes on behalf of my group. I have seen that this Minister has passed through many stakeholders and has tried to obtain as much support as possible by addressing these stakeholders on a number of points. There are nine votes in favour of the SP here today, and I hope that the Minister will meet my party as well. As far as the SP is concerned, there are three things that stand out in this law. We have concerns about the reduced deadlines before a decision enters into force. In our view, this does not make it easier for the citizen to participate and, if necessary, to defend his or her interests, and that cannot be the intention. We have doubts about the Laan for the Environment, a very large ICT project that is intertwined with this law. The SP Group is afraid that the project will be out of step either in time and cost, or that we will have an ICT system that still has the necessary childhood diseases when it comes to introducing the law. We fear that local authorities such as municipalities and provinces are not yet ready for the Environment Act. It takes not only a lot of time and effort, but also a whole cultural change. They are given a great deal of responsibility and my party wants to be sure that when this law enters into force they are actually equipped with their task. Decisions will then be taken which are not easy to reverse or restore. In addition, the municipalities are concerned that no clear agreements have yet been reached on finance. Of course, there must be enough money to make the introduction of the law a success. Finally, my party has concerns about the quality of the environment. Although it is stated that it should at least remain the same, this law is, in the meantime, causing a great deal of confusion. The SP wonders how we are going to guarantee that equivalence and where the brake is if there is any deterioration. I'll walk by the time limits first. This minister is heavily committed to participation at the front. The idea is: if you take residents, audiences and stakeholders in front, talk to them and see where the pain is and how you can ease it, it saves a lot of time in terms of procedures and objections. This philosophy can wholeheartedly support the SP. However, there is a catch. People have so much to do these days. You should not only provide care for your parents, but also wash your son's or daughter's football shirt and then keep an eye on what's going on around you. We must be careful not to throw everything over the fence with the residents. If we want to use the knowledge and skills of citizens, we must give them a full chance. They must then be given the time to do so, and this is demonstrated, for example, by the time limits within which they must be made known, by the fact that they do not agree with anything. An environmental plan will enter into force four weeks after notification of the decision. An environmental vision will take effect two weeks after the decision has been notified. For an environmental permit, such as a logging permit, the time limit before the permit enters into force is currently six weeks, as is the time limit for objections. The Minister wants to reduce the time limit for entry into force of that permit to two weeks in the Environment Act. I'd like to try to change the Minister's mind. Now it takes a few days for people to realize that a permit has been granted. Even if you have the announcements sent digitally in your neighborhood, this usually happens once a week. Then you have to make an appointment to see the pieces at the town hall and that also takes time. Then you can write an objection and at the same time request a preliminary appeal from the court. If you're an association, you'll need two signing board members, while an individual who didn't chop it up before, doesn't just write an appeal and then goes to court. If one goes to the amenities court, the hearing is held quickly, about three weeks after the issue of the permit. Then as a burdened man, you must have all your arguments ready. For example, you usually need an alternative report from a tree expert with a hairdressing permit to successfully combat the permit. But such an alternative report is usually not available within about ten days in the procedure. Of course, the Minister has created the Laan for the Environment for this, but still the question is whether this all works as simple as keeping an eye on your own municipality, your neighbouring municipality, your province and your waterboard for their permits, their plans, regulations and project decisions. And everyone must be able to understand it and be computer-savvy. For example, the final evaluation of pilots showed that there is a world to gain by avoiding vague language. If you have to do all this in your spare time, isn't it almost impossible to do it within these deadlines? Does this measure result in significant savings in time? No, because it is the procedures themselves that take a lot of time once they have been applied. It seems to me that the Minister has already taken a great deal of time with the participation, but she should not want too much. In the eyes of the SP, six-week periods should be normal. I hope that the Minister will respond to us on this, otherwise I will have to submit a proposal on this. I'm going to I.T. In the past, we have seen that the combination of government and ICT is not too happy. Just a year and a half ago, a committee of inquiry of the House of Representatives presented another report with a "safe estimate" of how much public money will be spent in ICT failures. This conservative estimate was "between 1 and 5 billion." The ICT that is part of the Environment Act, the Laan voor de Levenenvironment, is a huge system. If it works, we think it's fantastic: if you want to apply for a permit for something, you don't have to ask yourself who you're all supposed to be with, and you don't have to report to multiple governments, but you can do it at the touch of a button. Behind the window, your application will automatically reach the right person or government. However, if the system does not work, then there is a big problem and you might have to ask yourself whether the Environment Act should enter into force at that time. My question is this: does the Minister guarantee that the Laan really works for the Environment before we make the whole transition? And does this mean that the childhood diseases are actually out? Because what happens when the system is not working properly or not working properly? What has been learned from previous government projects with a large ICT component, and have these lessons been taken into account? I'm moving on to decentralisation. Although the SP also believes that you should lay down the responsibilities where they can best be taken, in my opinion that part has gone a long way. Standards such as, for example, environmental values and the assessment framework for permits should remain in the law. They are now being transferred to delegated regulation. But it is, of course, up to the national authorities to determine the direction in which they are going. This also reflects the role of the Chambers as co-legislator. We set these frameworks, and the specific implementation can then be done at a lower level. I would like to hear from the Minister how she feels about this. In addition, the question is, of course, to what extent local authorities are ready for their new role. Several municipalities have already served as guinea pigs, and that was a good idea. But it has turned out that they are running into all kinds of issues that need to be resolved. Municipalities have been given many responsibilities in recent years, and this is often accompanied by financial problems. As everyone knows, a lot of costs are currently falling to local authorities, and often they have not been given the finance to cover them. Examples of this are home care and assistance. In spite of the fact that the Minister is still talking to the authorities about the allocation of costs and the corresponding finances, can the Minister promise me that this will be resolved to mutual satisfaction? As a final point, I am now going to the equivalent quality of the environment. In other words, the current quality should not be affected by this new law, but should at least remain the same. In this law, the word "trust" is common. That's nice, but in our opinion there has to be a safety net. It has already been said that the quality of the environment must not deteriorate and that, worse still, damage is being done if, afterwards, confidence cannot be realised or cultural change does not produce the desired results. The final report pilots environmental vision shows that stakeholders do not expect the cultural change to be completed quickly. Therefore, the SP considers it wise to include a safety net clause. I invite the Minister to respond to this. The same applies to the implementing paragraph. Now these must be included in structural visions, but environmental visions will soon become form-free. So one can have a wonderfully ambitious vision, but then not follow up on it in the environmental regulation or the environmental plan. To prevent us from getting paper tigers, an impact section is a logical solution. The SP would think it wise to re-record it anyway. This also gives more clarity to citizens and businesses. The quality of the environment must also be better safeguarded by the inclusion of rules in the law that serve as a safety net. Scent, noise, health, biodiversity and landscape will soon be left, at least in part, to local authorities. The question is how this is monitored and how citizens can support the state of quality if no environmental values have been established. Local authorities do not have to set environmental values, and the government itself already indicates that environmental values are not always the right instrument. However, the great advantage of an environmental value is that it is monitored and one must intervene if it is found that the value is exceeded or is likely to be exceeded. With an instructional rule, that's not true. It also does not take into account accumulation due to multiple activities at a location. The government believes that cumulation should be taken into account in the environmental plan. But there are no formal requirements for an environmental plan and a much more global allocation is allowed. As a general rule, as a government, you will also assign global rules to the functions. The question then is whether you can properly consider cumulation. If, therefore, no environmental value is included, the municipality allocates global functions and citizens suffer from the consequences of cumulation, these citizens can go to the city council, but if they do not pick up the signal, the citizen cannot go to an administrative court, because the citizen is not directly concerned. This is an additional reason for the SP to ask for guarantees that ensure the equivalent quality of the living environment. That is why I would like to know from the Minister which level of administration should at least guard a lower limit for which aspect. Mr President, I will conclude with a few separate comments and questions. We're far from done with the Environment Act. Next comes the introduction law and the AMvBs in which much needs to be made clear. Those AMvBs are going to consult on July 1st. It is reported that they are going to the House of Representatives. Isn't it strange that recommendations are being made, while the House of Representatives is still talking about the AMvBs? Or is there a misunderstanding here? The Minister also announced that she would like to have the National Environment Vision completed as soon as the introduction law is in the Lower House. Can she tell us what she thinks should be included in the National Environment Vision? Can it clarify the national interests that are included in it? Does it also make it clear how we are going to achieve the long-term vision step by step? What is the relationship with the National Environment Vision and the Structure Vision Underground, which is now also being worked on? What's the relationship between those two? Are the national interests of the STRONG also included in the National Environment Vision? The idea behind this law can be understood by the SP. If things get clearer, we'll be on his side. However, as we have heard, we still have questions, comments and proposals for improvement. With clear promises, this Minister can earn nine votes. I wonder if she'll accept this outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
