ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is very pleased that it has managed to take a number of measures with the coalition partner to relieve the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. This afternoon we are talking in particular about the much desired reversal of the chain clause in the Work and Security Act by the VVD. This chain clause ensures that after three contracts in two years the employer has to take the employee into permanent employment, or wait six months before another contract can be offered. This caused many people who worked in an amusement park, on the cold ground in agriculture or on the summer terraces, to lose their jobs. What we have now arranged is for the seasonal labour chain to go back to three months and for the social partners to be able to solve problems together. The scout, who came on the initiative of the VVD, also advised this change of law. The agreement between the agricultural and horticultural sectors proved difficult to apply in the recreational sector, for example. Many parties needed a change of law. The recreational sector has therefore rightly referred to this legislative amendment as a breakthrough. After the letter of amendment to the law had been sent to the Chamber last week, this led to a few questions. What if employers and employees make agreements together, but have not concluded a collective agreement, or if that collective agreement has not yet been concluded on 1 July? Are the agreements they make together leading? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The VVD hopes and assumes that this change can be ratified by Parliament before the summer, i.e. before 1 July. This summer companies in the hospitality, recreation and agriculture and horticulture will be able to take on their trusted seasonal forces again and there will be more jobs for people. Let me now turn to the implementation of the Enforcement Directive, which is the main topic this afternoon. The Detachment Directive was adopted in 1996. It regulates the posting of services within the EU. That directive is difficult to enforce because there is no idea of who is doing what at what price and for how long. With the enlargement of the European Union, the differences in pay and social legislation between Member States have actually only increased. Cross-border exploitation and illegal employment through posting are becoming more and more common. With the enforcement directive, which has been drafted in this legislative proposal, we can tackle and combat these excesses. That's what we're here for. I think you should set clear rules that can be enforced. The government must then do it right. Illegality and exploitation of posted workers should be punished. This should prevent the displacement of workers in the Netherlands, who are not affected by this. That is why we want the inspection to continue in the Netherlands, especially in cooperation with the EU country of origin. The VVD is hopeful about the effects of this law, but we think that it should first be clear whether this law really works before we want to further limit the conditions for posting ourselves. That is why we are not in favour of the proposals put forward by the Commission in March to further adapt the Detachment Directive. We have had a separate AO on this. We have a number of questions and comments on this bill. The Detachment Directive is an exception to the Rome I Regulation. If no choice is made under which law the employee is seconded, the law of the country of residence shall apply. Regardless of the choice for the country of residence or work, the Minister in this law actually goes beyond the Detachment Directive. If the hard core of working conditions on which the posting is based is not explicitly defined, this hard core is highlighted by the Minister. The Minister then points to this hard core as collective wages. This is in fact contrary to the Detachment Directive, which explicitly mentions the minimum wage. What is the European legal basis for this statement by the Minister? The Minister himself will provide a website on which collective agreements will be published. Doesn't the Minister make himself very vulnerable to any misinformation? Is this not typically a task for the social partners themselves? Because the collective agreement is maintained by the social partners and that is, as far as the VVD is concerned, a task that does not belong to the government. However, the Minister is now actually saying that collective bargaining wages are one of the hard cores and are also maintained here. Does this not instruct the inspection to maintain collective agreements? Is this not an extension of the competence of the inspection? The identification of the company that detaches makes it possible to see who does what where. We think that is a good thing. However, it does not always seem easy to realise. The Minister also wants to use this law to combat bogus self-employment. This is a noble ambition, but self-employed workers are not covered by the scope of this law. How's the Minister gonna do that? Then I'll come to privacy. The VVD considers it of the utmost importance that the privacy of people and companies is protected as much as possible. However, this is sometimes at odds with the detection of malicious practices. We are well aware of that. Collaborating with other Member States and sharing information in the Internal Market Information System is of the utmost importance for the provision of assistance to each other, the detection of cross-border malicious companies and the collection of fines. This will also share privacy-sensitive information about companies and employees. We all know that the Dutch government does not have the best track record with regard to monitoring privacy sensitive data in social security. Think about the whole situation with Suwinet. Which organisations will have access to this information in the Netherlands? How is the Minister going to embed with the Dutch organisations involved that privacy is well protected? And in this context, is it wise to share privacy-sensitive information with the collective agreement partners? Then I have some points concerning bureaucracy. Reporting is already in force in 18 Member States. By making the recipient of service in the Netherlands responsible for that notification, it is ensured that the sending company reports itself and its employees. This will give a better view of the posting. That's what we're here for. In this way, the inspection can identify the sectors in which the problems lie through risk selection. That's a very logical step. Exploitation of Eastern European workers by Dutch workers, such as at the Eemshaven and at the A2, can be prevented and combated by the reporting obligation. As far as the VVD is concerned, further measures are not necessary. The VVD welcomes the fact that unnecessary bureaucracy is avoided as much as possible and that, for example, the reporting obligation will only enter into force if it can be reported digitally, in 2018. We are also in favour of harmonisation with the reporting obligation laid down in the Foreign Labour Act for people from outside the EU. General Administrative Measure excludes sectors such as passenger and professional transport and businesses around the border. All that's positive. However, we wonder what other Member States are doing with regard to exceptions to reporting obligations. What do Germany and France do? Do these countries have the same exceptions? Or are there more? Do we distinguish ourselves here on the positive side or on the negative side? This is also what I am asking for in the context of competitiveness. And when will it become clear which risk sectors are identified, in which self-employed persons are also subject to reporting obligations? The key question always remains: is this enough? The people I speak to do not understand that Eastern Europeans are illegally or under the minimum wage taking jobs previously done by Dutch people. The key question then is: do you really catch the really crooked companies with these measures? These are companies in which both the foreign detacher and the Dutch partner do not report, companies that do not have an A1 declaration and companies that do not register in the Netherlands. Are these companies still out of sight of the inspection? Does the Minister have more enforcement tools or is this enough? The VVD looks forward to the results of this improved enforcement. We wish the Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u3	Mrs Schut rightly started with the good news that now the chain clause is also being adapted for seasonal workers. It concerns agriculture and horticulture and all other sectors that depend on the season. In all the debates we have had on this subject, there was still a bottleneck, and that was the invaders at primary schools. I have seen that the VVD has asked written questions about this. This problem also concerns the VVD. However, it is not settled now, while the same scout should also take it with him. Together with a number of colleagues, I have tabled an amendment to deal with this now. What's the VVD like about that? Does she recognise that this bottleneck has not yet been removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u4	It is true that the VVD has drawn attention to this, but we must row with the belts we have. We have now done the best we can to arrange what could be arranged in the short term. If there are problems in a particular sector, we look at them. Then we try to solve these problems. However, this cannot be done at once. Now we've been trying to do that for the season work. We listen to the problems that exist and we try to solve them gradually. We assume that the sector itself takes the initiative in collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u5	The situation is quite similar to what was happening during seasonal work. There it had to be settled through the collective agreement and it was not so well arranged. At least it could be better, even according to the VVD. The problem is that the schools are full of water. As of 1 July, it will also have to meet this and the problems have not been solved. Exactly the same argument played in seasonal work. The problems have long been known. We know that the schools will be dealt with right away. Again, is the VVD prepared to settle this issue now, so that we can clarify all those schools and, above all, all those invaders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u6	We recognize the problem with the invaders. There's no doubt about that. We've seen that, too. It is also up to us to listen and ensure that solutions are found to these problems, as we have done with seasonal work. You can't take care of everything at once. We've heard it and we're gonna look into it. The sector is also working on it. It seems to me that voting on an amendment in between would go too far. We really need to look at that carefully. Please be assured that we recognise the problems. We are listening very carefully to it and we want to take action on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u7	I think this is a very strange answer. The coalition parties have solved a number of issues for the recreation sector and for agriculture and horticulture. Greetings. Now there is still a pressing problem in primary education where it appears that the law is a bottleneck. Like other groups, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has asked a whole set of questions about this, several times. Mrs. Schut says you can't solve everything at once. Mrs Schouten, Mr Heerma and D66 are now trying to help her a little. There is a specific amendment to resolve this problem. Mrs Schut is not going to tell me today that, after all her warm words about education, she will abandon those involved in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u8	You heard me. We have the problems in education very well on the retina. We have now tried to find a solution for seasonal work. We are listening to the problems and we are really looking at them with the aim of solving them. However, this has not just happened. That is why we must say that we cannot do so now, but we are doing our best to achieve this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u9	It's okay. It's okay. There is a concrete amendment to do it! Mrs. Schut just doesn't want it. The Chamber, I am guessing almost all my fellow Members say to the Minister: well that you have solved concrete bottlenecks in agriculture and horticulture and in the recreation sector, but you have forgotten education. At that point the VVD has always put on big pants and always spoke warm words. Now there is a concrete amendment to solve that problem. Does Mrs Schut leave primary education in the cold because she is not allowed by her coalition partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u10	You didn't hear me say that. We recognise this problem and look at it with a warm eye, but we need more time to do so. We have tried to do what has now been done. That's great. We shall see how we can solve similar problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u11	Mr. Chairman. The free movement of workers between countries with equal working conditions is hardly a problem. There is no competition on working conditions. Also because of the simple fact that people like to live and work close to their families, there is no great mobility in Europe. If there is already cross-border work, it is limited to frontier work. The free movement of workers became a major problem when the countries of Central and Eastern Europe joined the European Union. It also became a major problem because companies started offering services that used differences in social legislation in different countries, whether through letterbox companies or not. We know the examples. My question to the Minister is what this law does about it. Let me make it very concrete. What else would have happened at the Eemshaven if this law had already been there? What would have changed in the situation of the Romanians in northern shipbuilding? What would have changed with the people who worked on the A1 and the A4 in the service of foreign companies? Is my perception that this law would not have improved those situations? The only thing is that we would know where they were working. There will be a reporting obligation for foreign companies that will carry out assignments here. The SP thinks that is only right. The House of Representatives has been asking for this for much longer. I still see Mr Van Hijum of the CDA, who came to me during general consultations with the Limosa system. We all thought this was something exotic from an exotic country, but it was a system from Belgium. Mr Van Hijum has always advocated this system, together with my group. The Minister at the time did not want to do so, because he felt that this was contrary to the rules on freedom of movement. The Belgians did. I was really proud of the Belgians then, because they threw the ass against the crib and afterwards they got right. It was contrary to freedom of movement, but it was allowed. I wish we had done the same back then. I have a few questions about reporting. I propose to include the address in the Netherlands as well. This is important in order to be able to effectively identify situations surrounding over-inhabitation, house milkers and other housing abuses. We know from recent history that this is a problem of public order. That is why I think we should ask for this notification. For the bank account of foreign employees, I propose the same thing. It's very useful if those bank accounts are in the system, if there's to be paid after. We have heard from labour inspectorates that they could not find foreign workers who were entitled to money. So those foreign workers never got that money. I have tabled an amendment to that effect and hope that the Minister will be able to embrace it. There is a general reporting requirement for foreign companies that come in for contracts, but forzzp's the reporting obligation applies only to risk sectors. The explanatory memorandum specifically mentions construction, cleaning, ICT and healthcare. Which sectors are they going to be? On what basis will the Minister designate these sectors in a General Measure of Governance? If I understand correctly, the construction industry, the metal industry, agriculture and horticulture, the food industry and the petrochemical industry are all included in Belgium. Does the Minister include these sectors? If they are risk sectors in Belgium, this will also be the case in the Netherlands. And when is this General Measure coming? Does the House of Commons get to see it first? This legislative proposal also refers to the exclusion of categories of posted workers and service providers. Why are these exceptions needed? Does the Minister have any examples of why it would be appropriate to grant exceptions? Or is it meant as in Belgium and is it about artists, international transport, diplomats and scientists taking part in a conference? I would like to clarify that. The Netherlands will have to cooperate free of charge on information requests from other European countries. It is free for those other countries, but this means that costs will be incurred here, especially at the Labour Inspectorate's liaison office. How is this foreseen? In the written procedure, the Minister states that it will be all right and that the consequences will be very limited, but I doubt that. Can the Minister promise that, if it turns out that it cannot be within its capacity, it will increase its capacity at the Labour Inspectorate and not cut into other enforcement activities of the Labour Inspectorate? The notification will only start on 1 January 2018, because there will only be a digital notification system. Is that working on it already? What's taking so long? The smallest companies of less than 10 employees are excluded from the reporting obligation. Is that what they do in Belgium? Has the Minister thought that a larger company can split up into ten businesses of ten employees each? This could circumvent the reporting obligation. How can the Labour Inspectorate know how many employees work abroad at a company, so that the company is not obliged to do so? There is also a change in the so-called hard core of working conditions. The Minister has included a number of judgments from the European Court of Justice in that hard core, but why are things that I believe are also hard core not included? I'm talking about pay-as-you-go in case of illness. If a client doesn't have to pay wages for sick foreign workers, isn't that a competitive advantage for that foreign company? That's a distortion of competition, isn't it? The same applies to pensions. Why should a client not pay a pension premium for posted foreign workers? Some collective agreements have arrangements for compensation in the event of industrial accidents. It could be large sums of money. Why doesn't the Minister take it to the hard core? Why does he not anticipate that amendment to the Detachment Directive? Last week, the Minister consulted his European colleagues on this amendment to the Detachment Directive. The whole room is curious. Maybe the Minister can already say something about it. Then we'd love to hear it. In the discussions we had on this subject, the Minister said that he was prepared to take stock of what international measures could be taken against social dumping and unfair competition. My question is, when does he come up with that? I hope very quickly, because this Detachment Directive can last for a very long time, particularly because of the resistance from Eastern European countries. My request to the Minister is to fill in what he said about 'code orange' and to combat it with national policies, even if that is not entirely or totally in line with European rules. Finally, it is understandable that the Minister adapts the Work and Security Act in connection with seasonal work. Now seasonal workers can work for the same boss for a long time every year for nine months. The Work and Security Act threatened to make that impossible. Now there is another issue. So it is now possible that someone works for the same employer for nine months in a row and is then told that he is no longer welcome. If someone had worked for 12 months, if the dismissal had been unjustified, he would have been paid a discharge and not now. I believe that there should be equal treatment here. That is why I have tabled an amendment to grant a transition fee, so it is officially called, and I call it a dismissal allowance, to grant it in a similar way to that of permanent workers. After nine months, these seasonal workers receive on average a third month's salary as a transition fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u12	I have another question about Mr Ulenbelt's amendment asking for the bank account number of a posted worker to be given to the inspection. What is the problem with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u13	I can tell you exactly that. It often takes quite a long time before it is clear whether someone is underpaid or not. At the time it is established, the relationship between the client and the employee has long been broken. No one knows where that man or woman is anymore. If we have the bank account number in our systems, at least we know what to transfer the money to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u14	Mr Ulenbelt therefore assumes that the inspection will in future pay back wages to employees? This is a completely new approach to the inspection task, which the VVD is not in favour of at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u15	No, because there is consultation between the inspection, the employers and the workers. In this consultation, the Labour Inspectorate can provide information. In that case, it would therefore be very useful if the Labour Inspectorate could give the account number to the union, the employer or a lawyer, so that the recovered money ends up at the place where it should be: with the foreign employee who was underpaid. That's very convenient and very easy. If the account number is unknown, it's not working yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u16	Mr. Chairman. I signed up for ten minutes, but I'll be brief. I'll have a little sip of water. The Minister is also entitled to his beer or something else during Queensach. Of course, that's what we're giving him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u17	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u18	Isn't that right? That's nice, isn't it? Due to the open borders, the absence of an employment permit and, therefore, measures taken by the European Union which are always being taken over, unbridled labour migration has taken place in recent years. Of course, there have been some patchwork, some laws passed and some measures taken to suppress it a little bit, but there is cross-border work and it is hard to contain it. Where no borders are applied, there is a problem that blurs boundaries and thus problems that transcend culture and laws. So another directive is being drafted by the EU. That is, of course, to confirm its own relevance. The implementation of this EU directive is not the means we need to tackle repression and exploitation. Jobs are on the march here in the Netherlands because of the EU expansion and the invasion of our country that caused them. We are not talking about Ukraine and Turkey, about visa-free travel and about the problems that this could cause. The solution to the problems posed by the EU's open border policy is not yet more EU. The best is the Netherlands from the EU. Then we can regulate our own migration, including labour migration, and enforce our own rules. That's what we're all really good at here. As far as we are concerned we close the crane instead of mopping harder together. We do not want to implement this EU directive. We also voted against it in Brussels. In the second letter of amendment, the Minister indicated that he was going to shorten the deadline. Mr Ulenbelt also talked about it so that employers could recruit people after three months. We think that's a nice proposal. We will consider it more closely, to see how we can be against one another within the package and yet for the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u19	That was indeed short and powerful, Mr De Graaf. Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today we have some strange legal treatment. It is no longer just about implementing the Enforcement Directive, but also about relaxing the rules on seasonal work. The amendment of the Work and Security Act, rightly so, has nothing to do with the Enforcement Directive. However, my group appreciates the speed. This measure, which was widely called for in the Chamber, is now included in this legislative proposal, in order to resolve the problem by 1 July. It is a good thing that the Minister, in this way, has acknowledged that the Work and Security Act simply did not work in practice in this area. After all, that was the conclusion. I have some questions about the Enforcement Directive. My group is positive about this, because it seems to contribute to better enforcement of the use of foreign workers. That is necessary, because in the construction of the A2 and the A4 and the Eemshaven, for example, we have seen enough cases where this did not go well in practice. Mr Ulenbelt has already mentioned this. The question raised by the D66 Group is whether it is effective in its work. How effective is it to implement only that Enforcement Directive? That is not a strange question in the knowledge that there is also an amendment to the Detaching Directive. I would ask the Minister to explain again why he also expects progress on this enforcement directive. In this light I am curious why there will be no additional capacity for the Inspection SZW. The Minister has heard me ask for it before. Each time the answer is that it is not necessary. At the same time, however, we see that the number of inspections since 2011 has been halved. This time, too, the Minister writes in the answer to questions and in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that extra capacity is not needed because there will be a reporting obligation, which would make it easier for the inspection to check. It could be more effective with current capacity. Then there will be more investigations, even though we are not expanding the capacity. There are therefore relatively fewer studies leading to nothing. Of course, that's a very nice theory. It is also a bit the theory behind risk-oriented supervision. However, if you look at the enforcement rates in recent years, you can see that the enforcement rate in 2012 was 21, that it got slightly better in 2013, namely 24.5 and that it fell back to 18.5 in 2014. A target rate of 20% has now been set. The Minister promises that this percentage will improve. How many? That's how I'm asking the Minister. So what's the goal? What are we gonna charge him for later? Is that 25%, 30% or maybe 40%? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. Don't you just need inspectors to put the new instruments into practice? In addition to the reporting obligation for foreign service providers, the government also wants to introduce a reporting obligation for foreign self-employed workers. It is only introduced for risk sectors. Has the Minister thought about what sectors that will be? I can imagine that the construction sector will fall under this heading. If an independent construction worker, for example from Poland, comes here to work with a private individual, is this obligation to notify enforceable and effective? The Minister writes in the note following the report that there will be an information campaign for clients. I am very curious how the Minister is going to reach out to the private person who hires a Polish construction worker and what this information campaign is going to look like. Mr Ulenbelt has tabled an amendment to report the civil service number and the bank account number of posted workers. Then they are better to find, even if we still have to pay back wages. My group had also asked for this. In the reply, the Minister states that he does not consider this to be proportionate. I would like to challenge him to go into this more fully, because I do understand the purpose of what Mr Ulenbelt is proposing. Just taking it off with the remark that it's not proportional, it's going a little too fast for me. Why doesn't the Minister think that's a good idea? I'd like to have a more detailed explanation. In addition to the Enforcement Directive, today we are discussing an amendment to the Work and Security Act. It is good that the Minister has acknowledged that this law was too restrictive in the agriculture, horticulture and recreation sectors, and that a legislative amendment was needed to resolve these bottlenecks. That is fine and a good result towards 1 June. It is therefore also fair to add this to this law by means of a letter of amendment. Although it is not the royal route by law, given the time pressure it is certainly justified. It is a good first step that the rules for seasonal workers are being improved and that many seasonal workers are not at risk of losing their jobs, because that was what threatened hard in the agriculture and recreation sectors. Mrs Schut rightly asked what would happen if there was no collective agreement. I would ask the Minister to answer that question, because that question also lives with D66. The bottlenecks are wider than seasonal work. My group will not repeat the entire debate on the WWW, no matter how tempting that may be. We are very concerned that people are being dismissed rather than getting a permanent job faster, and that companies have become more reluctant to offer that permanent job. We will do that at another time. There is, however, one urgent point that has already been raised in an interrupting debate with Mrs Schut: primary education. A month ago, Mr Schouten and I tabled a motion, which we held in anticipation of what emerged from the consultation of the collective bargaining parties and awaiting the scout, who is going to look at it. We're running out of time. I was therefore disappointed because this particular problem has not been solved. That's not because I find education seasonal work, because it's not. I agree with the cabinet. But there is an acute, concrete problem with the invaders and invaders, which was not intended but which we can solve. I am therefore curious to hear the Minister's reaction to the amendment tabled by Mr Schouten, Mr Heerma and myself. I am also really counting on the support of those parties who have asked for education to be put out of business in the past year, like these parties. I'd like to ask you a few more questions about amateur sport. If it takes place in the outdoors, then the change we are discussing today offers a solution. But the concerns that colleague Heerma mentioned in the earlier consultations on this matter were somewhat broader. What are we supposed to do with a tennis park with both indoor and outdoor courts? We ourselves can share very interesting cases with each other. Is the Minister planning to do something for amateur sport? In practice, it breaks down with coaches and the like. I have the impression that what we are discussing today is a step forward, but there is still more to be done. I hope the Minister is prepared to take another step in that direction. I would like to draw attention to the increase in the legal minimum youth wage. There's gonna be one. My group very much welcomes this. D66 called on the cabinet, in an approved motion, to bring about a substantial increase. Now I read in the pieces that it will start in 2017. I assume that's January 1, 2017. Can the Minister confirm that? I am raising this point today because it is also a matter of urgency. If there is another bill in the autumn, you have a few months left. I think that's short notice. Why, for example, did the Minister not choose to add the first step, which, as far as my group is concerned, should be taken on 1 January, also with a letter of amendment? Well, at least that first step is in the law. That seems desirable to me. Can the Minister explain why it is not possible to send those proposals to the Chamber for the summer recess? I myself have been playing around a bit, and I have decided to settle the first step by amendment in this law. But of course, I await the Minister's response first. I really hope he does everything he can to achieve the goal that I know we share. Surely it would be very sad if it became apparent that, because of political or other circumstances, this increase in 2017 does not take place at the time we all want? As far as my group is concerned, this is 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u21	I call Mr Kerstens of the PvdA Group. How many minutes do you intend to use, Mr Kerstens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u22	I'm guessing about ten minutes, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Being able to travel freely and earn a living anywhere is part of one Europe. I see it as my task to point out the shadows of it: underpayment of colleagues from, mostly, Central and Eastern Europe, unfair competition for companies that do comply with the rules and repression of Dutch construction workers and truck drivers, and not only those who are put aside as 'too expensive'. Such shadow sides contribute to the negative feeling of many people about the European Union. That is why, and because they do not fit in with the decent labour market that the Labour Party is fighting for, we must fight those shadows wherever we can. I do so myself, since I am in the Chamber, the first two motions that I tabled after the elections in 2012 dealt with this issue and also before that as chairman of the FNV Construction Association. Contrary to what was the case at the time, over the last few years here in The Hague, there has been a significant increase in the awareness that something really needs to be done. The appointment of additional labour market inspectors, the submission and adoption of the False Constructions Act, which means that clients can no longer look the other way and undesirable situations have been declared illegal, more tools for inspection and better cooperation with social partners, all of which are serious steps. There has also finally been movement in Brussels. It was driven by the Minister, who in turn was sent out by us. Recently, in the Chamber, we talked about improving the so-called Detachment Directive, so that equal pay for equal work in the same place comes one step closer. We'll do it again in a while. Today we are talking about the way in which we are implementing the new enforcement directive, which has also been promoted from the Netherlands. It is intended to combat underpayment, unfair competition and repression, and to tackle bogus structures, wrong employers and shady employment agencies. We are doing this with the Working Conditions Act on posted workers in the European Union, which we are discussing today. The Labour Party is therefore going to vote for this law, which trade unions are also very pleased with. That makes sense, because we have insisted on it like no other, and things that politics did not want to deal with for years are now in the law. I'll start with the most important of them. Before people get to work here, employers have to make an official mention of it, so that the inspection will know who is going to do what for how long. Employers must also ensure that all necessary documents are available at the workplace. They must also have a permanent contact person in the Netherlands. In addition, and that is at least as important, its client and user are obliged to check all kinds of items. Otherwise, they'll be at risk of a fine themselves. So this too is the end of looking the other way, shrugging the shoulders and washing the hands in innocence. That is a very big step forward that is going to make a real difference. Compulsory prior notification, by the employer, and mandatory monitoring by the client, suddenly make shuffling a lot less attractive. I would like to raise three points with regard to reporting. We read that a digital reporting system is being rigged, following the example of the Belgian Limosa. This system has been successfully used by our southern neighbours for a number of years now. I wonder why it should take until 1 January 2018 until the reporting system in the Netherlands is operational and notifications become mandatory. It's got to be early, right? I would like to hear from the Minister why that might not be possible. In addition, I assume that the inspection will take place when a client reports that things are not right in the context of his obligation to investigate. The latter must do so if he is not to be liable himself. However, such a report must be made. Can the Minister indicate that the inspection is actually going to take place if there are any reports from the principals? An exception is made to the notification requirement for passenger and freight transport, except in the case of cabotage, transport from one place to another in the Netherlands. That last one's nice. It is also a good thing that the Minister will bring the transport sector under the Act approach, which makes clients liable for abuses there too. I've insisted on that before. When is that bill coming to the Chamber? I just happened to talk to some drivers last weekend. They are very happy about it, but would be much happier if the bill came quickly to the Chamber and could be introduced quickly. There is also a part of the transport that is excluded from this obligation. In what way does something extra happen to prevent abuse in that particular area? The transport sector is very vulnerable to abuses. In terms of enforcement, can we expect extra focus on the transport sector, including from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment? I also welcome the fact that in risk sectors, such as construction, cleaning, care and IT, which the Minister himself calls, the reporting obligation will also apply tozzp's and thus the obligation to check their clients. Countless are the stories of people who got into a van in Poland as an employee and came out here after a stopover at the Tax Administration as a zzp'er. Or people who suddenly turned out to bezzp'er somewhere during a fall of a scaffolding of an employee, so that no one was responsible anymore. Why does the Minister not apply the reporting and checking obligations ofzzp's in all sectors? I also ask this because I can imagine once again the tricks of clients who hirezzp'ers who are supposed to be active in a non-risk sector, but in an adjacent sector that is very close to that and where the work sometimes falls under one sector and sometimes under the other. I am positive about the clarification and the associated extension of what is called the hard core of working conditions and the matters contained therein by trade unions and employers in collective agreements, in addition to or as a complement to the law, to which Dutch workers and their colleagues posted abroad are entitled. This is important because it brings closer to the aforementioned equal pay. The new definition is in line with the latest judgments of the European Court of Justice in this field. That's a good thing. However, the recently announced amendment to the Detachment Directive gives an even broader definition of the hard core, with the term "remuneration": all income items that can be valued on money. Is it possible to take over that definition? In any case, this should be done if it is to be part of the new directive, but is it already possible? I would ask the Minister to take a serious look at this. I have pointed out earlier whether pension contributions can also be classified under the hard core of working conditions. Pension is a very important condition of employment which has been agreed between trade unions and employers. The premium to be paid for this is a not insignificant part of the wage cost, which makes it quite clear whether it does not have to be paid for one employee or another. If we want to exclude unfair competition on working conditions, this is what the directive wants, that is what this law wants, that is what a large part of the Chamber wants, and that is what the Minister certainly wants. Trade unions rightly note that this is not just about equal pay but also about equal wage costs. As good and important as the steps we are talking about today, the Minister knows that more is needed: a firm revision of the Detachment Directive, an adaptation of the coordination regulation on social security schemes, so that contributions hopping where do I have to pay the least contribution? Against this background, additional national measures are being taken. The Minister has already promised that he will certainly breed on that last point. Today's law provides for Member States to assist each other in enforcement by exchanging information, carrying out checks and inspections on request and collecting fines across borders. That's all positive. As far as sanctions are concerned, I would like to hear from the Minister why we did not opt for a criminal approach, but rather for an administrative fine. I would ask that, particularly in the light of the reports I receive from Belgium and France, that if you consider infringements of this law to be a criminal offence and not an administrative fine, you could settle more matters at national level for the protection of public order than if you were to commit an administrative offence. As I said, when it was called upon to do so, the Minister recently indicated that he wanted to take stock of what additional steps we could take to deal even more firmly with abuses in the use of foreign colleagues, of which Dutch workers are also being affected. I also ask the Minister why this level of fines has been chosen. Among the examples of abuses mentioned by the Minister himself, the Eemshaven, the A2, the A4 and the A15, but also in a recent example such as the exploited Romanian shipbuilders and their Dutch colleagues kicked out of the streets, a lot of money, often millions, disappears into the pockets of crooks. Such a fine must, of course, be something. Last Thursday, the Minister presented a minority social agreement which, like the law we are discussing today, brings the decent labour market a few steps closer. Whether it is about increasing the minimum youth wage or laying a decent soil where piece wages are used, such as by parcel delivery workers, postmen, cleaners and in horticulture. In total, this concerns more than 155,000 people. That's all good news. It is also a good thing that the Spring package has agreed on seasonal work and that this has been done with the social partners. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this is in line with the core of the Work and Security Act. If trade unions and employers both consider that there is reason to deviate from the law, this should be possible. It is logical that this will soon be possible, limited to a number of specific functions, also with regard to the period between two consecutive contracts for seasonal work. The Labour Party is confident that the way in which this has been designed will prevent abuse. As is the case with all the other issues we are discussing today, it is good for people if this agreement on seasonal work can enter into as soon as possible. That is why the Labour Party agrees with the second letter of amendment sent to us at the end of last week, which allows the adaptation of the so-called 'chain clause' that I have just mentioned to go along with the Employment Conditions Act in the European Union. That's two birds with one stone, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u23	Mr. Kerstens said the Minister is brooding. It is now indeed a breeding season. That's right, but usually these eggs have hatched within a few weeks and we see what has come out. Does Mr Kerstens mean by that breeding also that the breeding season for the minister lasts a few weeks and that he then presents the hatched result to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u24	I know that in May all birds are supposed to lay eggs, but I think it is too short a day to ask the Minister, for example, to come up with the outcome of that breeding at the end of May. There's also a recess in there. However, I do expect something from the Minister. He has promised Mr Ulenbelt and me that he will come forward with an inventory of what we could do here in the Netherlands, on top of what we are already doing and in addition to European rules to combat exploitation, unfair competition and repression. So this breeding must certainly lead to an egg; an egg that we can still discuss in good time in order to take some nice next steps during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u25	Finally, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u26	Here Mr. Kerstens is making an ornithological mistake...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u27	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u28	... because it's not about the egg, it's about what comes out. And the breeding is aimed at a little bird that we see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u29	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u30	The question now is: how long can the Minister keep breeding if it is up to Mr Kerstens? After the summer, we must have proposals from the Minister for how that could be done. Does Mr. Kerstens agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u31	I was always better at the flowers and the bees, but Mr Ulenbelt is right: the breeding takes place on an egg and it must indeed lead to something very beautiful. I have just indicated that it is a short time to ask the Minister to come out with that brood before 1 June, so with the inventory of what we can and should do. But I heard Mr Ulenbelt say: after the summer. I'm fine with that. And I don't mean "after the summer" just before the summer of 2017. I mean as soon as possible after the summer, actually at such a time that we might be able to do something with it in budgetary treatment or something. I think it is very necessary that we take further steps. We are getting a lot closer to effectively tackling exploitation, unfair competition and repression, but we need to look at what else is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u32	Thank you. You might as well be spokesmen for agriculture. I now give the floor to Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u33	Mr. Chairman. You would almost come in a spring mood after these words, if it wasn't even colder outside than during Christmas, so I understand. Hopefully that will not affect the Minister's condition. The proposal before us must prevent exploitation and repression. We know the poignant examples, because it was the government itself that gave the space for that, though not meant. In the construction of the A4, the A15 and the A2 we have indeed seen very poignant examples, which we believe should be eliminated as soon as possible. This bill is taking some good steps in this respect; I can be quite clear that my group is looking at it this way. I do have a question. Has the Minister finally made it clear when he thinks this law is working properly? When is it an effective law? We don't really have a picture of exactly how many seconded people we're talking about. How's the minister gonna decide if the law does what he's supposed to do? What are his estimates of that? I also have a question about reporting. We have seen that this can only be implemented by 2018. What's taking so long? There are examples of other countries, such as Belgium, where this is already happening. It seems to me that there can be some acceleration in that. I would like a response from the Minister. The law that we are discussing today has suddenly changed its character last week. Last week, the Minister launched a major plan to correct the labour market, including a system for seasonal workers. The Minister presented a strengthened basis for agreements between the social partners on seasonal workers, which he had put in place in the second letter of amendment to this law. I understand that, because the season is coming when we're going to work in greenhouses and the like again. Instead of the general exception, there will be a specific derogation with stricter requirements for seasonal workers. The intervals are shortened from six to three months. We think that's good news. We have talked about this for a long time, and we have always identified the bottlenecks. It is good that something is finally being arranged for this group of people. I am curious as to why it has been chosen to regulate it so specifically in the law and not through the ordinary exception, which was already in the law. And what are we going to do about those sectors where there is no collective agreement? That question has been asked before and we are still asking it after this letter of amendment. I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this today. More things came out last week, including the minimum youth wage. We are going to deal with this later, but let me say right away that we are very happy that this is going to be settled now, because a young person who has completed a training course and who does a full job must also be entitled to full pay. I would like to congratulate Young & United once again, who has clearly put this point on the map. As far as we're concerned, the credits are for them. We're going to talk about that further. I have just indicated in my interruption that I have missed a part during the whole presentation of the plans, and I find that sincerely disappointing. It's about the position of invaders in education. If they come under the Work and Security Act, and under the chain clause, then after three weeks of raiding they have a fixed contract or they are sentenced to payroll-like constructions. I would also like to offer that assurance to those invaders; let us be clear about that. But I find it really incomprehensible that on the one hand we say to education that all these people should be taken into permanent employment, while on the other hand there is no extra money. If that is what we want, let us be consistent, because now there are schools with their backs against the wall. Let me say more specifically: this does not apply to all schools, but only to special and special education. Public education is excluded, because it is governed by civil service law. If it is such a fundamental point for this minister, why doesn't he arrange it equally for all schools? Now there is a strange distinction between two different types of school, one having to follow the chain determination and the other not. But more importantly, a number of schools really get in trouble. Yes, there are opportunities to shape certain pools, but precisely the schools of a specific direction, of which there are not so many, come into a mess with their personnel policy and, if they want to set up such a pool, should literally take their invaders from all over the country. We can find all kinds of things that these schools are there, but we do have freedom of education here. A school simply has the opportunity to conduct its own personnel policy. That discussion is not on the table here, but these schools are going to suffer. I know that there are collective bargaining and I know that it is being discussed now, but I also know that time is running out. On July 1st, it must all be settled. I honestly don't trust it. I hope the Minister can tell me and the Chamber that it's all settled. If that is the case, then I will remove the amendment from the table, because I am concerned that it should be dealt with, not who will take care of it. Now that we have settled one part of the problem in the Working and Security Act for seasonal workers, I do not understand why the Minister does not want to take care of the other part, because it is a real problem. That is why, together with Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg, I have tabled an amendment which regulates that the supply chain provision for the incursion forces does not enter into force, but that further rules can be laid down at AMvB to prevent abuse of that provision. We do not want that either. I am quite prepared to look into whether I should work on that amendment in order to make it clearer. I really care about the case. I hope the Minister is prepared to find a solution to this pressing problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u34	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing two proposals for the price of one today. I think that the Minister is not in the Chamber after the previous speakers' speeches, but I can also tell him, on behalf of my group, that we are broadly positive about both aspects. I will begin with the enforcement directive. In my view, this is an excellent step towards combating unfair competition in our labour market with Eastern European workers as a result of unequal pay. From which parts does the Minister himself expect the greatest effect? For example, what does he expect of the possibility of collecting cross-border fines? This is an important part of justice. Previously, colleagues also asked: what exactly does the Minister expect from the clarification about the hard core of working conditions? What effect will that have on enforcement? I'm gonna go with the report. Mr Ulenbelt has just spoken about his warm memories of the debates with Mr Van Hijum on this subject. He then interpreted it as an exotic Limosa system. I think that discussion has been going on for years. In the previous period, the cabinet did not want it, but I think it is very good that it is now in place. The Belgian results also show why. From the Limosa system comes three times as many numbers as from A1 statements; that says something. 130,000 is not a small number, but almost 400,000 is really different. In my opinion, the fact that they are then known through the reporting obligation offers many possibilities for enforcement. First of all, you'll know who's out there. Second, you know something's not right when you find people who haven't been reported. So you can perform. Several colleagues have already asked whether this enforcement regime is sufficient. The VVD Group points out that it wants to see the results of the enforcement directive first and really does not want to talk about the Detachment Directive until then. My group is not in the same position. Moreover, the ESC and the employers themselves are different in this respect. At the end of 2014, the ESC has already advocated an amendment to the Detaching Directive. The reality is that there are considerable differences in the minimum wage level and social conditions in Europe. That is what the VVD Group has already mentioned. So when borders between countries are open, there are problems. When we talk about open borders for work in Europe and, in fact, about globalisation, we must realise that these kinds of developments know winners and losers. Open borders are really a different principle. Soon you will lie awake at night and wonder whether your children will get a job at all or whether it has been taken over by cheaper Eastern European workers. It is therefore a good thing that this enforcement directive is being implemented. I think that is a possibility, but it is not enough. I believe that it will be of real value and that it will only be possible to really do something if the Detaching Directive is properly adapted, as Mr Kerstens has just pointed out. I'm worried about what's going on right now. That's what I said in the AO. Isn't the 24-month period too long? Doesn't the back door inside continue to cause problems? If a construction is legal, there is nothing to maintain. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. In my view, Mr Van Weyenberg also asked what the value of the enforcement directive would be if you did not properly adapt the Detaching Directive. I have repeatedly raised the issue of seasonal work on behalf of the CDA in the past period. I am very pleased that the social partners and the partners in the coalition have now really taken steps. They do not wait for 1 May and then see what the Explorer comes up with and then discuss whether adjustment is necessary. No, the adjustment was there at the end of last week. Usually I tend to say: hasty haste is rarely good. Thursday a proposal was made and here is all the incorporating bill. That's pretty quick. But the need is high and time is running out. That is why I am positive that in this particular case it has been chosen to do so so quickly, because there are real problems in agriculture, horticulture, catering, recreation and amateur sport. The transitional period is coming to an end, and it is therefore a good thing that we are now going to do something about it. I do have some questions and concerns about this, especially those that have not been settled. How are things, for starters, working in practice? There are concerns about how it will work out once the collective agreement has been reached. Then there's a list of functions. What then happens at company level? Does it have to be proved by function that this is the case? Or can companies make use of the list if agreements have been made at job level in the sector? My concern about amateur sport hasn't disappeared either. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned this earlier. A lot of amateur sports clubs don't have a collective agreement. This also raises the wider question of how to use it as a seasonal worker if there is no collective agreement somewhere. This morning I received an e-mail from a company from mussel fishing, which said: we do not have a collective agreement, but clearly we do have seasonal work. What is the Minister going to do to avoid creating problems in sectors where there is no collective agreement? Otherwise we will be back here in a few months or a year to make another adjustment, because it appears that new sectors have emerged without a collective agreement where the problems remain. The second part of amateur sports are indoor and outdoor sports. In the letter we received, it is quite clear that the problems have been solved there, as far as nature and seasons are concerned. But that is true for outdoor sports. Is it true that we have arranged something for outdoor football but not for indoor football? I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. All these sports work with seasons. It cannot be that we have now arranged for outdoor sports but there are problems for amateur sports clubs in the room, for example in basketball or volleyball? I would like to conclude with the education which Mrs Schouten has already made in detail. That's not seasonal work. The Minister does not have to explain to me again in his first term that education is not seasonal work, because we have exchanged this with each other in the AO; everyone has acknowledged that. But the problems are real and of a similar nature. That is why the CDA, together with the Christian Union and D66, has tabled an amendment to solve the problems of replacement, which are particularly affecting small schools. In addition, I have the following question. I thought the scout would also look at education, but there is nothing about that in his report. The letter we received yesterday, however, refers to the mediator who has now been appointed for the collective bargaining problems. Did the scout indeed not look at it because the mediator does so? Are they interfering with each other? What does the Minister expect this to work out, and at what time does he think there is a solution? My group also does not believe that this is regulated per amendment. As long as it's taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u35	Mr Heerma pointed out that the Detaching Directive could take a long time. If there is no rule, there is nothing to maintain, he rightly said. Mr Van Hijum wanted to go further than Europe should at the time. Mr Kerstens and I asked the Minister to come forward with proposals as soon as possible after the summer. Does Mr Heerma agree with me, in line with Mr Van Hijum at the time, that there should also be proposals that are a bit chasing with existing European law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u36	It is clear from what I have said that, in my group's view, it may be a little tighter than what is currently being agreed in Europe, partly in view of what I have said about the problems of the labour market and the losers of globalisation. In the AO I recently said that 24 months is too long for my group and that we see more in a period of 6 months. Also, we think we need to get out the back door. I am not giving carte blanche, but if the Minister comes forward shortly after the summer with proposals to look up the edges, I am sympathetic to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u37	But Van Hijum just wanted to go over the edge according to the thought of then; later it was allowed. Surely the Minister should have something on the edge of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u38	I think we have to conclude afterwards that Mr Van Hijum did not want to go over the edge, because now what he advocated is ahead of us. I think that's a good thing. Mr Kerstens has also indicated that a notification is late as of 1 January 2018 when we talk about the Limosa system. If that can be done faster, it would be a very good thing. But then it remains that you cannot tackle the real problems of posting with this enforcement directive alone, because with the current Detachment Directive, some competition is unfair but legitimate. The Detachment Directive will therefore also have to be adapted accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u39	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u40	Mr. Chairman. It is good to taste a lot of support in the Chamber for the bill we are discussing, which is about the implementation of the Enforcement Directive. It is part of the Detachment Directive and ensures that rules on the applicable working conditions can be better enforced. We have often talked about it in the Chamber: free movement brings the Netherlands a great deal of good. It is a great asset and it gives our country a lot of prosperity and a lot of jobs on the ground, but if you want to continue to benefit from it, you must also be prepared to do something about the negative effects on the shadows of that free movement. We come across a certain amount of structures using that freedom of movement to make labour as cheap as possible. PO Box companies and revolving door constructions are used to evade Dutch legislation or collective agreements which have been declared generally binding. We have seen this at the A2 near Maastricht and at the Eemshaven in Groningen. There, the Detaching Directive had become a business model of malicious companies. This bill is called the Working Conditions Law on posted workers in the European Union. It regulates which working conditions workers are at least entitled to work temporarily in the Netherlands, and it contains measures to enforce those rules. In doing so, we are taking a good step to prevent the Detaching Directive from being used as such a earning model in which workers are not given the working conditions they are entitled to and there is an uneven playing field. The proposal contains five measures. Firstly, it contains a handle for inspection services to look at when there is posting. We will work that out in an AMvB and I will inform the Chamber by letter. Secondly, the exchange of information between inspection services will be facilitated. Thirdly, it will be easier to collect cross-border fines. Mr Heerma asked an important question about this. We cannot now collect 74% of the foreign fines, and that is not in line with our sense of justice, as he pointed out. It is important that we can collect it; if you are caught, it must have consequences. Fourthly, there is the issue of reporting. A lot of questions have been asked about this that I will answer in a moment. Fifthly, it will make it easier for companies to find out exactly what the working conditions apply. This is made easier not only because of the website, but also because the law itself defines what working conditions should be included in the so-called hard core and should therefore at least be granted. This will clarify the establishment and applicability of collective agreements for posted workers. In addition, the enforcement directive allows Member States to introduce a chain of liability for pay, so that clients who want to do business with malicious service providers can be dealt with harder and better. I have already implemented this part in the Fake Constructions Act, which both Chambers have unanimously agreed to. All in all, these are very useful measures to enforce the rules of the current Detachment Directive. But, I say, if the rules of the game themselves are not fair, you can never get the game completely fair. Many parties have asked for this, and an answer to this is that this bill makes an important contribution, but does not solve all the problems. It is also necessary to adapt the rules of the game itself and I therefore welcome the Commission's proposals. Adaptation of the Detaching Directive is necessary to combat competition on working conditions between workers in Europe and to ensure a level playing field, which is in the interest of many Dutch service providers. They do not come into play because larger companies often use the Detaching Directive to obtain an unfair competitive advantage. That is unfair, but it is not illegal, as Mr Heerma put it, and that must change. Then I come to the question of whether I think the 24-month proposal is sufficient. Of course, we discussed this with each other just before the Informal Council. If I had been allowed to write the proposal myself, I think I would have chosen a shorter deadline. I think the Chamber could have sensed that because of the way in which I reacted. I said that I was pleased with the proposals that were put forward, but not satisfied. We have now had a first informal conversation. The force field is clear but not simple. It will therefore be a great challenge to reach agreement on the proposals as they stand, apart from the questions that the Chamber has asked and which I have brought to the Commission on a number of possible weaknesses in the proposals. I thank the Chamber for its written contribution. I hope that I have answered the questions sufficiently in this respect. I now turn to the more specific questions that have been asked today. The Directive gives Member States the possibility of reporting obligations. In order to verify that service providers comply with the Detachment Directive and that the employment conditions and conditions applicable to posted workers are applied, it is necessary to know where they are located. This is therefore immediately an answer to the SP's question what this would have helped in the cases we know, namely Eemshaven and A2. Due to the reporting obligation, the inspection had known that large-scale workers were posted. That could have led to a targeted inspection. Then there were undoubtedly a number of things that were perhaps undesirable but allowed under the Detachment Directive, namely the business model, the earning model. We could have acted more appropriately against the illegal phony structures, which were also mentioned. We have also seen people earning €5 a day and having to eat snails from misery. With this law, this enforcement directive, you could have been better able to detect and deal with these issues more effectively. At the moment, we have no way of seeing which foreign service providers are in our country. It is only after 183 days that a service provider is obliged to make himself known to the Tax Administration for the payment of payroll taxes. This means that in the first half of the year, the A1 declaration which enables an employee to demonstrate that he is socially insured in another Member State is now the best we have. Such an A1 declaration is not mandatory, it is an unreliable means to gain insight into posting to the Netherlands. Moreover, such a statement does not contain any information on what kind of work is being done. You know that we are also looking at what we can improve on this A1 at European level, but it is clear that this is not enough in view of what we are trying to achieve here, and that is why we are obliged to do so. Before the start of the work you must indicate how long and for whom you are going to work, where and with which employees. In order to keep the administrative burden as low as possible, we also have an interest in the provision of services is created a system that enables service providers to comply with the reporting obligation online. I think it is a very good sign that many parties are asking whether this could not be done before 1 January 2018. I think that date is sufficiently challenging in all honesty. Although the notification system will ultimately be simpler for the user, there is a lot to be seen in the development. It is important for the personal data to be properly protected.The VVD also asked about this and we will have to make good arrangements with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. It has the necessary feet in the earth if you want to arrange it neatly and properly; simple for the user, but in accordance with all the laws and rules we have for that. Then 1 January is still quite ambitious. An exception is made for small businesses, because they can make a report that is valid for one year. It would also be too heavy for international transport companies, because they are constantly driving into and out of the Netherlands. Therefore, they are also excluded from the reporting obligation. What's such a small business now? You don't want a glass washer washing the glasses from Belgium or vice versa to report every time he drives into the street. We are trying to strike a balance between the objective of the law that can really contribute, but it must of course be bearable for entrepreneurs. The Labour Party asks me in what other ways abuses in the transport sector are being dealt with. Transport always has our special attention, both to me and to my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment. There is a collaborative project between the Inspection SZW and the ILT, in which data are exchanged in order to be able to carry out joint risk analyses. With the ILT, the Inspection SZW conducts several interventions, including re-inspections and investigations. In doing so, they take false constructions and fined the notorious offenders. They focus, among other things, on the Dutch transport companies with branches in more than one Member State, and mailbox companies of Dutch transport companies located in another country, with particular attention to national and international transport companies in refrigeration and freight transport. The prevention of infringements is being pursued by better informing about what the laws and regulations entail. In addition, reports of fines imposed for infringements are important, as this is a positive influence on the pick-up perception. That's a preventive effect. Moreover, it is motivating for all those employers who do keep to the law, to see that the culprits are caught. Finally, this question has also been raised.................................................................................................................................................. It depends a little on when the King signs it, I suspect he's not due to it tomorrow, but as soon as possible. That could really fall on the bus one of these days. The SP asks to what extent the inspection can check whether a company does not have to comply with the reporting obligation because a company has less than 10 employees. If the inspection suspects that a particular service should have been reported because a company is actually larger, the Inspection may request information on the number of employees and the country of establishment via the liaison office. If one chooses such a devious path, it is not without risk. The VVD asks what exceptions to reporting are made in other countries. I do not have a perfect view of this right now, but I know that exceptions have been made in Belgium for short business discussions and performers. All Member States should, after implementation, inform the Commission whether and how they introduce a reporting obligation. As soon as I get that, I'll share it with the room. The SP Group has asked if I am prepared to record the address and bank account number of posted workers. To this end, an amendment has also been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. The data we request must be proportionate and contribute to the purpose. The question of a bank account number and residence address would be considered disproportionate, as these data are not necessary to obtain an insight into the service providers in the Netherlands and to obtain an answer as to whether they are granting the right conditions of employment. It may serve a different purpose, as Mr Ulenbelt has just argued, but that is not the purpose of this directive or this law. That makes it disproportionate. I understand Mr Ulenbelt's concerns. In this respect, it is important to point out that the inspection on the basis of the Law can impose a burden on underpayment under penalty payment. Thanks to the Enforcement Directive, other enforcement authorities in other Member States will soon be able to collect this penalty payment. So we get a better grip on people who think we can get away with the dance. It is my opinion that asking for a place of residence and bank account number for all posted workers would be too far-fetched with any notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u41	Nevertheless, the Minister shares the concerns about all the misery we have seen, for example about housing. What does the word "disproportionate" mean in this context? Can't? Is it contrary to the directive? Or does the Minister think so? If the minister wanted to, could it be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u42	In my view, the directive only allows notification for the purpose of the directive. If you put other things on it, it becomes disproportionate. In the end, it is up to the European Court to determine whether the directive has been properly implemented, but in my view this would be disproportionate and therefore cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u43	I mentioned it earlier with Mr Kerstens: we must also take measures which may not be Europe's right but which serve a purpose. This clearly serves a purpose. Then it can't be disproportionate, can it? This is a matter of public policy. Then it's okay to do it again, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u44	If something serves a purpose, it can still be disproportionate. We may disagree, but ultimately it is a question of interpretation of European law on this point. In my view, this is disproportionate, so I'm not in favour of it. The fact that it serves an objective, which may be a legitimate objective but not the objective of this directive, does not give a definitive negative answer to the question of proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u46	The digital reporting system also allows the inspection to carry out risk analyses of the data that are available there and to use techniques such as data mining. This also means that inspection capacity can be more targeted. That's gonna help combat maliciousness. That is also an advance on the answer to the SP Group's question as to whether there should be more capacity. The D66 Group also asked for this. No misunderstanding: if I had unlimited budgets, I would have liked to have more inspection capacity. I do not think that has been a secret between the Chamber and me in recent years either. It is precisely because of the targeted commitment and the possibility of data mining as a result of the reporting obligation that I think we can use the inspection more efficiently and effectively. I have been asked what enforcement rate I consider sufficient. Let me not improvise on that for a moment, but promise that I will send the latest figures to the Chamber very quickly. I'm pretty sure we'll talk about that again. Strictly speaking, this is an independent debate, which does not necessarily need to be conducted now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u47	The Minister writes that he expects that percentage to be increased by this law. So can I assume that we will find a higher new enforcement target in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u48	Unless there are reasons why, despite the positive effect of this law, there are reasons to correct that, I agree with that. Of course, reporting is only effective if you can't get out of it. Rogue companies are gonna want to stay under the radar. Therefore, a verification obligation is also included for the Dutch recipient of the service. It must check that the report has been made and that the report is correct. If he doesn't, he'll have to pass it on. If he fails to do so, and if the inspection finds that no notification has been made or has been misreported, the recipient of the service may also be fined. If the notification has not been made or is incorrect and the recipient of the service has passed it on, the recipient of the service shall be protected. The Detachment Directive applies only to employees. Self-employed persons are excluded from the Directive. The use of bogus self-employed workers is therefore attractive for malicious companies. This will enable them to evade the directive. For this reason, self-employed workers in certain risk sectors will be subject to reporting obligations. By doing so, however, you limit the prevention of unnecessary administrative burdens. After consultation with the social partners, we will identify the sectors in question at AMvB and in line with the case law of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u49	I would like to return to the duty of verification. This obligation applies to the user employer or the client. I am very pleased with that, because it prevents him from looking the other way, as sometimes happens now. I asked the Minister a specific question on this. If the user employer or the client reports that something is not right, the client is protected, but the infringement can still take place. Isn't the Minister assuming, like me, that the Labour Inspectorate would go for such a report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u50	Sure. The system won't work until the inspection does something with it. If a malicious report is made with wrong information, then we will have to deal with it. There is no guarantee that what is being done with it in 100% of cases, but we agree on the principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u51	I almost wanted to ask for a guarantee, but it is indeed not to be given. We have just talked about risk-based supervision. This is where the risk occurred. Then we can all assume that the inspection will be carried out, because it is almost a red tape. This does contribute to the success of all kinds of service providers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u52	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party and the SP ask why the reporting requirement does not apply to all self-employed persons in all sectors, while the VVD asks why there is a reporting requirement for self-employed persons, who are not covered by the Detachment Directive. Well, the European Court of Justice has ruled that, in the fight against false self-employment and in the context of enforcement and posting, a targeted reporting obligation is justified, but not for all sectors. We are also following this line in this legislative proposal, precisely because we all agree on the objective of preventing unfair competition and false self-employment and thus preventing people who do it in a proper manner from getting rid of all responsibility and bread. There will be no extension to all self-employed workers, because the European Court of Justice believes that you would go too far, beyond what is necessary. The risk sectors will be identified together with the social partners. In the meantime, I have asked the social partners to look into it. I'll be sitting around the table with them soon. Then we'll see what they come up with, but we'll also see what signals the Inspection SZW has collected. D66 asks how a private individual will be informed of his inspection obligation if he hires a Polish independent construction worker. Individuals will also be informed about the reporting obligation. It may be that a private individual failed to carry out an accident check. Of course, there will be policy rules on fines. In the written procedure, I have already indicated that a warning is also possible. It's not about scaring the shit out of friendly individuals. It's all about the system itself. You don't want that to be undermined or evaded. I think that we can balance the effects on employers who deliberately abuse them, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the possibility of a private mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u53	That last one's very nice. We have seen poignant examples in the framework of the Foreign Labour Act and the old anti-fraud rules. It is good that a warning is possible if someone is mistaken. It is good that the Minister has said this again explicitly in the debate. I can imagine that the information campaign is not yet ready to every comma, but when does the Minister expect to know what the campaign is going to be like? Would he like to share that information with the Chamber? I think it is quite a task, especially for private clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u54	I'd like to say I share this with the Chamber. I don't have that ready yet. I am now focusing on ensuring that the treatment in the House of Representatives is carried out successfully. Then I'll be going to the First Chamber soon. It is being worked on, but on this point I would like to inform the Chamber about how we are going to do it. I agree that you want to use that communication to get between the ears what the rules are. Those rules should, if it is right, be taken for granted by most. But this particular point is important. The VVD notes that the data can be exchanged and concerns about privacy. The Enforcement Directive itself lays down what data can be shared and which must be met, such as retention periods. In the legislative proposal, I have arranged for the AMvB to be able to determine to which bodies such data can be provided if they come from other countries. We will do a privacy impact assessment so that the effects of the data exchange can be properly mapped. I mentioned this earlier when it came to the date of introduction of the reporting obligation. It is precisely this type of element that needs to be properly regulated. Moreover, only non-privacy sensitive data will be shared with social partners. They are not provided with information on the identity of the employees, but with information on the number of employees and the duration of the work. The exchange of data between Member States will then take place through the European IMI system. That's a good, state-of-the-art security system. So that point too has been seen. But again, we are not doing a privacy impact assessment for nothing, to make sure that we do this properly. I come now to the hard core of working conditions. The Detachment Directive lays down which working conditions should at least apply to employees employed by a foreign service provider, who temporarily work elsewhere. These include pay, working hours, equal pay and working conditions. It concerns both the legal standards and the provision of a generally binding collective agreement. Which provisions are and are not covered by these provisions is the subject of discussion. What do you mean by minimum remuneration? Mrs Schut asked the same question. The Labor Foundation therefore asked the Cabinet in 2014 to give a more detailed explanation of that hard core. We have done so in the cabinet response to the ESC opinion on labour migration, on the basis of the latest case law of the European Court of Justice. With this bill, we actually codify that answer. That is also the answer to the VVD's question to the legal basis of that interpretation. It's not something new. It's not a change. There's no delta. It's capturing what the shared insights are at that point. This will increase legal certainty, including for Dutch companies that are going to work with it. It helps the social partners in their discussions on what should and should not be included in the hard core. We have simply stated that we are following, as it were, the interpretation I gave in response to the ESC opinion. Why is this not limited to a minimum? Well, there is a ruling from the European Court of Justice, in which the minimum remuneration is widely interpreted. This may also include minimum wage scales and collective wage rates, appropriate to the nature of the work. The Detachment Directive explicitly states that occupational pension schemes are not a core issue. The Labour Party and the SP asked for that. The most effective way to reduce the wage gap would, of course, be for foreign service providers to pay the Dutch pension and social security contributions from day one. Apart from the fact that European law does not allow this, it has considerable disadvantages in terms of large administrative burdens for employers. You get shredded rights and shredded pension combinations. Anyway, even if you think all this is worth it, it still cannot be done on the basis of European law. The SP asked about pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness. This should also be seen as social security and should not be included in the hard core of European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u55	I'm going to go into the hard core when it comes to minimum remuneration. I asked what the European legal basis is to say that collective bargaining can be counted as such. The current directive speaks of minimum remuneration. So I am not talking about the Commission's proposal of March, which indeed refers to pay in broad terms. At the time when this law is a codification of the directive, it seems to me that you should talk about minimum remuneration and not about pay in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u56	Certainly, but "minimum remuneration" has been interpreted by the European Court of Justice as including the minimum scales in the collective agreement. I do not think that is enough, because this can still be a disadvantage for a Dutch construction worker of hundreds of euros per month. It is higher than the Dutch statutory minimum wage. This has long been accepted case law on the interpretation of what is to be understood as a minimum wage under the existing Detachment Directive, not the Commission's proposed amendment. The European Court of Justice has established that "minimum remuneration" should be understood broadly; it can also be the minimum wage scale in a collective agreement. We see this in Dutch construction, for example. However, a wage based on a minimum wage scale can be significantly lower than the reward of an experienced construction worker. With this codification of the case law, it is still possible for a highly experienced Polish worker in construction to be paid as if he were just beginning, i.e. on the basis of the minimum wage scale in the collective agreement, and thus hundreds of euros cheaper than an equally experienced Dutch employee. The latter is changed in the Commission's proposal by amending the Detaching Directive. On that basis, the two construction workers simply have to be paid equally. Equal pay for equal work in the same place. That is not the case at the moment; we are going to discuss this further. However, the fact that there is a higher wage than the statutory minimum wage is not surprising. Several Member States do not have a minimum wage at all. Soon you will come to a collective determination of what should be seen as a minimum. At the moment, we codify what has been a longstanding practice in legal practice, as a result of the Court of Justice case-law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u57	I would like to go back to the proposal now before us to amend the Detaching Directive. It contains a more comprehensive definition of what falls under the hard core of working conditions. It would be good if we followed it. I can't do that right now. Does the Minister intend, if the proposed amendments to the Detaching Directive in this area are to reach the final stage in Europe without any harm, to wait and see if we can translate that broader definition into the Dutch legislation of that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u58	Of course. The Dutch Government is in favour of the amendment of the Detachment Directive. We also stressed this in the letter on the Presidency and in the BNC vision on several points. The Prime Minister has been a farmer in Europe for this. That is precisely what the Netherlands would like to achieve. However, this is not yet the case. The proposal refers to "remuneration," i.e. pay rather than minimum wage. For the Netherlands, this is the most relevant profit of the proposal. Other countries, for example, which do not have a system of avv, benefit much more from other proposals made by the Commission. We all know that the force field is very divided. We had a first informal discussion on this last week in Amsterdam. Honesty requires that we have come to an end now, but that much remains to be done before there is a common position, a directive that has also been adopted by the European Parliament and subsequently implemented by the Dutch Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u59	The reasonable expectation is that this will take years. The Minister himself points out that major differences can persist. Then why does he not simply take national measures which we believe lead to equal pay for equal work? Does this not happen because it is not allowed by Europe? Then I say, "So what?" Then they'll come after you, but we'll have settled it by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u60	Yeah, but we didn't settle things that weren't legal. You can say "so what" twice, but you can't last a minute. That's not helping. We do what is possible nationally. We have the Law approach fake constructions. In general terms, I have promised the Chamber that I will continue to think about what else can be done. However, what Mr Ulenbelt is proposing is not possible. It is precisely for this reason that it is so important that the Detaching Directive is amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u61	That is what Mr Van Hijum and I heard from Minister Kamp when we talked about the Limosa directive. It turned out to be possible in retrospect. If we deal with this now, if the Detachment Directive is to be amended, there will be nothing to worry about, will there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u62	I disagree with Mr Ulenbelt on this point. We do not disagree on the desirability, but on the question of whether it is a sensible strategy to clearly violate the law currently in force, there is, of course, a spotlight on it; we are not trying to change it for nothing, we are trying to adopt legislation which is not in fact possible under the Dutch Constitution. You can still discuss the Limosacasus, because the directive was not about self-employed people. The reason for some to consider the Limosa system illegal was the general restriction of free movement. Mr Ulenbelt wishes to oppose a provision of the Detachment Directive currently in force. We immediately agree that this directive dates back to the 1990s when the differences between the countries of the Union were much less significant. We now have a different situation, acute and urgent. That's why I've been working on this since 2013 under the motto "code orange." That's really nice. This does not solve all the problems at the same time, but it is progress. On the contrary, I want to do everything in my power to ensure that this is supported in the form of a qualified majority, so that Dutch legislation can be enforced by a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u64	In doing so, I immediately answered the question from the Labour Party. The PvdA spokesperson also asked why was chosen for administrative rather than criminal sanctioning. France and Belgium have opted for criminal law. That choice is up to Member States themselves. We have chosen to do so because the enforcement of the laws covered by the Detaching Directive is also governed by administrative law. Due to the consistency with that legal obligation, with the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Allowances Act, the Foreign Labour Act and the investigations that the inspection can do under Article 10 of the AvV Act, it is obvious to continue to use the same enforcement tools. I think that will also help you to act faster and more effectively. We all know that criminal law as an ultimatum remedium in a criminal justice chain that already has quite a lot to choose may sound more stringent in theory, but I think that we have a more effective instrument in our hands. The Labour Party is also concerned about the maximum amount of the fine. Is the fine high enough? It's not a fine. It's not a fine. They can be €20,250 per offense. Moreover, if the service provider fails to comply with provisions on minimum wage, working time, working conditions or the employment of foreign nationals, the service provider may also be fined up to a maximum of the fifth category, i.e. €81.000. I hope that this will be done in an elegant manner, in the same way as the amendment on item No. 10 have been advised not to do so. I want to move on to seasonal work now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u65	Mr. Kerstens, have you forgotten something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u66	Well... I don't really know, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u67	Maybe I forgot something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u68	No specific question from me, but a new question came to my mind when it came to fines, which amount to €20,250 per offense. If four employees are employed somewhere and all four are not covered by the obligation to notify or if there is something wrong with their implementation of this law, what does that mean for the fine? Is it four offenses or is it one offense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u69	I'm thinking four, but I'm gonna check it out so I can say that in second term. One, it's made clear by my staff with sign language. Classy! Unfortunately, one. It's proven immediately that you don't have to improvise as a minister. I'm coming to seasonal work. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the understanding that this has been put into this law. The Chamber is quite right that that is far from royal. We have not been able to consult the Council of State. You only do that by way of exception. In the Chamber, I can understand the fact that we are doing it this way because of the urgency of the matter. I admit immediately that I will not do this more often and that I will not use this medicine lightly. So I do not want to use it for other parts of perhaps desirable legislative changes. This really is an urgent situation. The Chamber has expressed this on several occasions in motions for resolutions. The scout's term was not for nothing on 1 May, precisely in view of that closing period. That's why I did this. During the general consultation on the Work and Security Act on 9 March, we discussed in detail the bottlenecks that employers encounter in seasonal work in relation to the new chain determination. The problem was mainly extending the interval from three to six months. It was introduced at the time to counter revolving door constructions and promote the creation of fixed contracts. I remember very well that Mr Van Weyenberg said: that is what I think is a good idea, that is to say, to counter rotating door constructions! This objective is still good, but we have seen that the seasonal work regime does not always work out well. By "we," I mean myself, of course, but also the scout of seasonal work in his report, as well as the social partners, the cabinet and the coalition groups. I would also like to thank all the parties I have just mentioned for the constructive way in which we have sought a common solution to this problem, rather than the best of our ability. The letter of amendment which I have sent to the Chamber makes it possible to reduce the number of jobs that can be determined by collective agreement to three months in terms of posts that can be held for up to nine months a year. We are therefore in agreement that the trade unions too should not be required to enter into contracts for an indefinite period of time in such cases and then to finance three months or more of emptying. I refer specifically to the trade unions, because of course we have heard some skeptical noises about their role in achieving these kinds of agreements. I believe that the agreement in agriculture and horticulture shows that social partners on both sides take responsibility for sound management, for their own members and thus for the sector. Without such agreements there will be no permanent employment relationships in sectors with seasonal work, and that is ultimately to everyone's disadvantage. I would also like to say that several people and groups in the Chamber have spoken out in favour of this point. So it also deserves credit for the fact that it has now succeeded in finding this solution. Mrs Schut asked what would be the case if the employer and the employee had made their own arrangements. If that is the case, these agreements must, of course, comply with the law. After all, it would be a good thing if you didn't have to comply with the law. You can deviate by collective agreement. That is the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question. Under the transitional legislation, a collective agreement can now be concluded with a provision for a shorter period of time. That provision shall remain valid until 1 July of this year. If parties want to keep this possibility, they can agree on it on the basis of the new article member. Mr Heerma asked how this would work in practice. If there is no collective agreement, there will have to be one. That was already the case, so that's not new in itself. I'm sure it'll come if it's necessary. Mind you, a collective agreement doesn't have to be a phone book. It can also be a very short, targeted set of agreements, for example in view of this problem. In the absence of a collective agreement, it may be possible to use an incorporation clause which seeks membership of a collective agreement relevant to the sector. I will come back to that when I answer the questions about the amateur sport sector. The functions for which the exception is to apply should be set out in the collective agreement. Jobs are often also appointed in collective agreements, so that's not new. These are functions which can be found in the companies to which this collective agreement applies. Mrs Schouten asked whether the amendment was necessary and whether it could not be enough with the regulation already in force, namely to exclude functions from the application of the chain clause under the ministerial regulation. I don't think so. In my view, this arrangement is intended to cover more far-reaching exceptions. Think of the professional footballers, who have to do with the particular characteristics of such an industry. It is therefore not intended for all kinds of sectors where work, in part or in part, is seasonal due to climatic or natural conditions. The scheme also requires the permanent use of only temporary contracts. This will not always be the case, so that the requirements of that scheme are not met and therefore no exception could be made. So this is about the regulation that was already in the law. That is the disadvantage of the regulation in relation to the legislative amendment that is now before us. I therefore believe that the proposed regulation is more appropriate to the problems involved, whereby collective bargaining parties themselves, without the intervention of the Minister, can determine the functions for which the interval can be shortened. They are capable of doing so, let us be honest. The ministerial arrangement will of course remain in place, for the Minister to be able to make an exception if the parties agree and the conditions are met. This has been the subject of extensive consultation with the social partners themselves, both at sectoral and central level, in order to verify that this change is indeed a solution to the problem at issue. A number of groups, including CDA and D66, have asked what this means for the amateur sports sector. That is right, because we have already seen that this is a special sector. On the one hand, you have associations that are non-professional or semi-professional. A collective agreement does not apply everywhere. On the other hand, there is seasonal work, at least in part of the sports. That problem was not passed on to the scout seasonal work for nothing, and it is right that they were asked to do so. We need to realise that a lot of work in the sector is already being done by volunteers. They will receive an expense allowance which is so low that it is not covered by the scheme we are discussing here. This can be done without a contract of employment and therefore without a chain clause. In addition, most clubs have a limited number of paid forces. The chain clause applies in principle, and the main rule can indeed cause problems. For this reason, the sports sector has the possibility of extending the chain clause to six contracts in four years. The conversations that the scout had with amateur sport show that one could well get out of the way with that six-time-four arrangement. The proposed amendment would not therefore be necessary at this level. In principle, this requires a collective agreement, since it also allows an association to make use of the possibility of declaring the extended chain clause of the collective agreement applicable to Sports Associations, or that an association can join this collective agreement. These collective agreements are now under discussion. This also fits in with a development that is used in sport towards professionalisation, as parties also want. However, this can be supported. We have contact with NOC*NSF. We have a mutual interest in ensuring that clubs do not get into trouble, that they move forward with the professionalisation effort and that they can exploit the range of opportunities to offer customised solutions for each club, association or sports sector. I'll recap them. This is not at all the case for some clubs, because they do not use employment contracts. If that is the case, you can join a collective agreement, for example the Sports Associations collective agreement. If that is not possible, you could incorporate the provisions into your association. If you also have specific, climatic elements, you can make agreements to declare the chain determination as a whole out of application for an interim period. That is also the belief of the scout. I have that passage here with me. I'm not going to decimate it, but in this passage you can find solutions for amateur sport. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am committed to working in consultation with NOC*NSF, because there is an information deficit and uncertainty there. I will help to inform the various associations and help to find tailor-made solutions. I want our conclusion to be that the problem for amateur sport is solved. Then I'll go to primary school. I'm not gonna repeat that that's not seasonal work. I also tasted in the Chamber the request not to repeat it, and I am not going to repeat it. There is now a debate on this matter. At the request of the Chamber, I asked the explorer to offer seasonal work to mediate in primary education. That's what he offered. They then got into conversation, but the conversations collapsed and they attracted another mediator. That is Mr Borstlap, an experienced mediator. That's what's happening now. I am convinced that we must be able to get out. They were very close when it collapsed. When it claps, people always start using very big words. That's what we've seen in the two press releases. However, when you look at the matter itself, you see how close one was to each other and how great the interests are to achieve a proper agreement. I think they're together today. I hope they do not wait for the outcome of the debate before they reach agreement. That is certainly not Mrs Schouten's intention; I know her far too well. I am convinced that we must be able to get out. The interests are so obvious and the possibilities and the law are there. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to the position of primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u70	The Minister says: I am convinced that they must be able to get out. There are a few intermediate steps in those words. Let me ask you this: if the social partners do not come out, will the Minister arrange that exception for the invaders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u71	No, they have to do it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u72	That is precisely the problem with this provision. Because we have placed it entirely with the social partners, these schools are in great uncertainty and have become dependent on whether the social partners come out on this point. They're tied with their hands and they can't do anything except wait and see. We are the legislator here. In the end, we decide what happens if the social partners fail to come out. I therefore have a final question, which also determines the amendment. If I know that this will be dealt with in a different way, I will gladly withdraw the amendment. Only, I don't taste that willingness at the Minister's office. That is why I am asking the question again. If the social partners do not come out, is he prepared to say for themselves: on the left or on the right, it will be okay with those invaders, even for schools for which a pool is not an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u73	Let us understand each other. If I were to say here now that I will take care of it if they do not come out, there will be an intervention in the ongoing negotiations. Then there will be an interest in one of the two parties not to make those agreements. I am convinced that it is in the interests of employers and employees in primary education to agree on this. They were all but one hair. In addition, there is a great deal of interest in bringing about the collective agreement now. I really don't know why they wouldn't come out, other than when one of the parties is acting extremely unfairly. If that is the case, it will have to prove that. I do not think that this would be wise in a sector with a high level of organization, where this collective agreement would also allow for a substantial increase in wages. The only way to really sabotage these negotiations would be if I promised here: if they don't come out, I'm going to do it. Then there's an interest in not getting out. I don't want to. Mrs Schouten doesn't want that either. I know her well enough for that. So give social partners their own responsibility to solve this. I really don't see any reason why that shouldn't be possible. Again, look at the press releases after the blow. There was another discussion about the circumstances under which you can use call forces. The question was whether this should be accepted by the school board or at the central collective bargaining table. That's it. That's where the delta was. Then there were a lot of other things, as always when a negotiation fails: emotions and big words. I really don't see why one couldn't get out. In fact, I am afraid I would reduce that opportunity if I made a commitment or announced something about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u74	Finally, Mrs Schouten. You don't have to. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u75	These are exactly the arguments we have always exchanged about agriculture and horticulture. This is precisely the argument why the Minister is going to settle this properly in the law. There is inequality between one problem and the other, between special and public education. We, as legislators, have a responsibility to deal with it properly, especially for all those children, schools and those invaders, who otherwise end up in a payroll structure. I hope that the Minister will recognize the importance of this and not just hold on ideologically to the idea that it belongs in the polder. This is also a responsibility of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u76	It is not necessary at all to say that it is only ideological. The system of our law applies to all these sectors. It allows collective bargaining partners to deviate from the law. Cao partners have known for a long time that they can find a good solution if they use it. No one says you can't solve this with those exceptions, because the law makes that impossible. Only, they don't even agree yet. That is also the difference with agriculture and horticulture. There was already agreement, but the solution agreed was at odds with the law. That is why I have proposed that this should be made possible quickly, so that this could also be done in other seasonal work. The discussion is not whether you could make such agreements within a collective agreement. The collective agreement has not been established so far. This is a different case. The legislator has assumed its responsibility here by finding a new balance between fixed and flex. It's a new law. We all know that a great deal still needs to be done before we can see together that it has worked in all respects. We have had the necessary debates on this. But here's not the problem. The law isn't the problem. The problem is that partners have not yet found each other in a collective agreement. After it had collapsed, they asked a mediator to help them come back to a collective agreement for a reason. You don't do that if you don't think you can. When they started this new mediation, they already knew what the point of conflict was. From that, you can assume that both sides are prepared to bridge that conflict point as well. Once again, I really don't see any reason why that shouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u77	Please continue. I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u78	This is it, Chairman: one page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u79	I find it complicated that we now have two tastes: whether we are trying to regulate it by law with the amendment we are tabling with three Members of Parliament, or whether we are waiting for something that we do not know the outcome of. What is the Minister's expectation about the timetable? In that sense, the Chamber is in a somewhat complicated courtroom. We just want it to be solved. If we can do that without changing the law, that's awesome. That's what Mrs. Schouten said. Only we do not want to be empty-handed at the end of this journey. The concern that that can be the outcome of this exercise has still not been taken away from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u80	I understand that concern. That is the price you pay in the system where social partners themselves take responsibility for choosing deviations from the law. In this sense, it is no different from seasonal work. In addition, parties will have to find each other on the basis of common interests in order to allow for a derogation from the law. What I find so strong about seasonal work is that employers and employees agree that they want to deviate from the law together. Then this minister won't intervene soon. Then I always want to see where the reasonable interests are. In this case, the situation is different. This is simply not the case with employers and employees. In the end, I think there is no reason why this should be sustainable. Employers and employees in primary education have common interests. It is not just about how you deal with employment relationships, but also about a substantial wage increase that was made possible by last year's wage agreement. We know that the transitional arrangements will cease on 1 July. That clock also sees parties ticking at a collective bargaining table. On its own, this is no different from other sectors, where we have said: no matter how difficult that may be, we leave it to the social partners. I admit immediately that several Members of Parliament have pointed out before that the proposal I am making here may prove to be necessary. In this respect, I would like to congratulate the coalition partners who have chosen to do so. It's not a very big secret that it was more like the VVD that hammered it. The presses therefore do not need to stop; there is no misunderstanding about that. We make it possible, but social partners will still have to do it together. This fits with the Netherlands and seasonal work. That's exactly what I think is the strength of their plea. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ulenbelt, with his amendment to item No. 11 to arrange a transition fee for seasonal workers. There is. A seasonal worker who is dismissed after sufficient time on temporary contracts is also entitled to a transitional allowance. For the purpose of determining entitlement to that allowance, all periods worked which follow each other with an interruption of less than six months shall count. Nothing's gonna change that. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. Finally, I come to Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the minimum legal wage. The starting date I have now foreseen is 1 July 2017. That's another race against the clock. He is proposing, or suggesting, no, he is offering to Ohio it is a helpful offer to include that bill in this letter of amendment and thereby pass the Council of State. I'm afraid to accept that offer. I would therefore not only insult the Council of State, but also the implementing bodies that will have to look at that bill. You have to change 67 laws for the adjustment of the minimum youth wage, I believe, and you have to look at effects on the Wajong and some of the things I mentioned in the letter. I'll give you my word. I'll show you the most urgent thing I can do. That means that I hope to present the bill to the Council of State for the summer. Then I can register it immediately after the summer in the Chamber for treatment and then 1 July 2017 can become real for that first tranche.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u81	In the expressions so far I had always read: in 2017. So I had hoped for January 1st. Why is that date not feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u82	That has to do with the time schedule I'm making right now. If everyone cooperates as much as possible I can taste a potential majority in the Chamber of Representatives I can have it in the House of Representatives just after the summer. Then it could go to the First Chamber as soon as possible and it could be in the Official Journal in April. The entry into force may then be at the very early date of 1 July. January 1st is simply not feasible, no matter how I make the count. Then we are also taking very big risks with the employers, who will have to implement it and who will have to incorporate it into their systems. I have also spent a great deal of time talking to employers about what this is going to mean. How can you do it so that those young people actually get that raise instead of employers kicking them out of risk-avoidance? We do not want any of them to do that. In the Van Weyenberg motion (29544, No. 647) was prescribed a substantial increase, but without or with very limited employment effects. That's a fair assignment, but that's not a secret either, but it was a puzzle. I think we have put that puzzle nicely through compensation through the LIV, by agreeing that after that first tranche we will have another closer look at the consequences and possibly the consequences in sectors and by doing so in two steps at all, from 1 July 2017 and 1 July 2019. But I would, I think, be unjust to the support of employers, even for this difficult part of last week's package, if I also introduce it into an irresponsiblely fast timetable. Then 1 July 2017 is really very ambitious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u83	I would have loved January 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u84	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u85	I do know that this applies to the Minister as well. My comment was that I think it is a good step. I am concerned that, with an introduction on 1 July, we will be stuck on any unforeseen circumstances after this period of government, so you will come in campaign time so that 1 July is not feasible in the parliamentary process. I'm gonna chew on this. The minister says he's gonna do everything he can. I would point out that this also applies to both coalition parties. As I have said, I am going to chew on it, but it would be a shame if this did not work because, for example, we end up in controversial statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u86	Of course, I agree with that plea, but in that respect I have confidence in the reliability of coalition parties. In my view, this has been demonstrated in recent years by the great support in the Chamber for the package as a whole. In the First Chamber, a majority of people sign up. The First Chamber is still in this composition until 2019. If we make this timeline, I don't see any additional risk. You want to put it in a responsible way. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u87	Thank you. Mr Ulenbelt, you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u88	Yes, I do, but I would like a clarification from the Minister on the dismissal allowance for seasonal work. Suppose someone worked for the same employer for nine months in a row. They'll be told he doesn't have to come back. What title can he get that discharge?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u89	To the normal title as it stands in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u90	There will be no dismissal and no new contract offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u91	The transition fee also applies to temporary contracts. Even if you get a five-year contract, you don't have to get fired after that. You're entitled to a transition fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u92	The point is that there is no five-year contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u93	No, but the duration is added up. The reason why, when the Work and Security Act was introduced, we restricted the retroactive effect of the law, Mr Ulenbelt remembers that "it was right that the threat was that someone who had worked as a seasonal worker at an asparagus grower for 30 years would suddenly be entitled to a colossal transition fee." Companies could not prepare for this. In itself, the system of law provides for the care that Ulenbelt pronounces here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u94	I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u95	I think that is very good, Mr Ulenbelt. I give the floor to Mrs Schut-Bellow for a short second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply in the first term. What we want to emphasise today is that it is so positive that, in the short term, a solution has been found for seasonal work before 1 July. We have also listened carefully to the expectations expressed by the Minister about the ongoing negotiations between the social partners in education. We also hope, of course, that they will come to an agreement quickly to resolve the problem with the invaders. That is what the whole Chamber wants, but we agree that we should leave it to the social partners; at least the VVD and the PvdA agree on that. I have a few points on the Enforcement Directive. I thank the Minister for the commitment that the privacy impact assessment will be carried out and also for the explanation that very privacy sensitive information does not go to the collective agreement partners. That would really be an extension of the sharing of that information, and that does not seem to us to be a good idea. We have had an interrupting debate on the distinction between the minimum in the collective agreement scale and the collective wage scale and on what makes the distinction between the current Detachment Directive and the future review desired by the cabinet. I would like to stress that the VVD is not in favour of this, because it is convinced that the benefit of a well-functioning internal market is that work is being created at a time when things are getting better somewhere in Europe. At a time when you are restricting it more than at minimum wage level, we fear that this will eventually ensure that there is no more work or that detachers from abroad will no longer register on those jobs. After all, companies abroad have to pay higher wages. These wages can be very high for them, because, as the Minister rightly said, there is no minimum wage at all in some countries and wages are lower there. We really have serious doubts as to whether this will ultimately lead to more work. We assume that this actually leads to less work. In an earlier AO, we have also said that there will be a very large impact assessment on the impact of the new directive. We look forward to that. Once again, the VVD is in favour of combating illegality and the evasion of the minimum wage. The Enforcement Directive now before us is a very good way of doing that. Let's see what it brings before we take next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u97	Mr. Chairman. Everyone now recognises that the relatively recent enlargement of the European Union has led to many and great social problems. This is perhaps best symbolized by the Dutch welder flying into a shipyard and whose work is occupied by a Romanian welder. This law doesn't solve that problem. The Minister recognizes that, too. Although it is an improvement to know what is going on here, so to speak, the Minister is then waiting for the Detachment Directive, the content of which is still completely uncertain, and for agreements on social security, all of which are still completely uncertain and which are even linked to the referendum in England. I am therefore surprised that the Minister does not say: okay, I am going to take national measures and I regard the Netherlands as sovereign in the field of the labour market. The Minister then says that my amendment on the inclusion of the residence address and bank account is 'disproportionate', but that he can imagine the purpose. I say to the Minister: then you should not choose Europe, but for that social purpose in the Netherlands. The same applies to the hard core of working conditions such as pensions, sickness pay and compensation. The Minister is not answering them either, and I am very sorry about that. We can and must do more than just implement European rules, because they have caused a lot of problems. I therefore hope that the Minister will come forward with national proposals after the summer, because he has not yet said anything about this. Mr Kerstens would like to see that, by the way. I have concerns about the inspection and therefore, together with Mr Van Weyenberg, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the inspection SZW is given more tasks and no additional staff are employed for this purpose;]] [[considers that the provision of mutual assistance and the implementation of administrative cooperation between countries should not be at the expense of inspection capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to keep a close eye on the fact that the additional tasks do not lead to a reduction in inspection capacity and, if this occurs, to send a proposal to the Chamber to prevent this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34408-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u98	Finally, I come to the seasonal work. The whole idea was that seasonal work would also take longer and that it would lead to longer contracts. This amendment, which is understandable in itself, does not do that. My amendment therefore sought to provide for an early retirement allowance after nine months, so that seasonal workers would be compensated for this. The redundancy allowance must correspond each year to the period worked in that year and must not be given entirely at the end until nine contracts have been served for five years. So I do not have to think at all about this amendment. The Minister put me a little on the wrong foot, but I'm back on the right foot now, so I'm maintaining the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u99	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ulenbelt stands on his left leg and I stand on two legs in the middle; so I say to him. I thank the Minister for his reply in the first term and for the number of clear commitments he made to the Chamber. I am passing by three which are of interest to my group. I come first to the communication strategy towards individual clients. I can see why they're still working on that. It is a good thing that the Chamber will be informed about the way in which this is going to happen. Especially for individuals who don't hire someone every day, we have to make sure that the communication is good. Of course, we also want to prevent the dramas of people who break laws because they didn't know something. We have learned from that in the past. The same applies to the commitment around the enforcement rate. I await the budget with interest. The Minister actually said it was true: if everything else stays the same, this law will lead to a higher enforcement rate; I say ceteris paribus as an economist. I am curious as to where that leads in the budget and what higher and more ambitious goal it will achieve. I'm coming to the inspection. I have tabled a motion on this subject, along with Mr Ulenbelt, and I will not repeat it. I have a fondness for it that if you make laws, you can also enforce them well with a strong SZW inspection, or "work inspection" as Mr Ulenbelt prefers. That is, of course, very important. The minister was clear about his personal commitment to amateur sport in response to questions from colleague Heerma and myself. He said that there are all kinds of possibilities, because it is a diverse plumage, and that he is going to make a personal effort to ensure that this is managed properly. I'm assuming his personal commitment, which is why I'm not filing a motion. I believe that the same applies to Mr Heerma. I assume that we will not be faced with problems in a few months' time. Perhaps at some point the Minister will also be able to tell the Chamber how this works in practice. I'll be on youth pay. I'm gonna chew on that. It was precisely my intention to make the date of 1 January possible. That's now July 1st. I'm sorry, but what can't be done is impossible. I have heard the Minister correctly and I hope that both the Minister and the coalition will do everything in their power to ensure that this is done even in heavier weather. So I will not table an amendment on that point. Around the school I feel a little stuck. On the one hand, there is a desire to wait for the social partners, but on the other hand we have the opportunity today to settle it definitively. That possibility is closed when this bill is voted on. For the moment, I assume that the Schouten c.s. amendment. I just don't want to run the risk of empty-handed education at the end of the day and the invaders and girls.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u100	Mr. Chairman. Today we are taking another important step towards a decent labour market after the Law approach. With this step, we are tackling underpayment, unfair competition and repression even more firmly. The Labour Party expects, in particular, that the shuffling becomes much less attractive by combining a mandatory prior notification and a mandatory subsequent check by the client, which is therefore no longer able to look the other way. The other measures of this law also contribute to that decent labour market. I have another question about reporting. The Minister has convinced me that in order to implement this regulation properly, you cannot cut and paste what has been invented in Belgium. We're gonna have to develop something ourselves. However, there are also two other matters in the law, namely the inspection of the documents and the control of the documents by the client or the user employer. I assume that those two cases will enter into force on the intended date of entry into force, namely 1 January 2017. I've been cheating on the fines for a while. If you don't comply with the reporting obligation, you'll get that fine once. But if you don't pay the minimum wage four times, you'll get a fine four times. Eventually those fines still tick and you don't get away that easily after making a simple calculation. The mathematics will lead more often than in the past to the fact that you better not start cheating. I have said before that it is an important step, but we are not there yet. We must continue to fight abuses where we can. We must do this both in Brussels and for that the Minister is doing a great deal of work, including in relation to the proposed revision of the Detachment Directive.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr Ulenbelt and I have asked a number of times to provide the Chamber with an inventory of what we can do in the Netherlands. I would like to mention, for example, the A1 forms, with which there is still a great deal wrong, or the ET scheme, the covenant between the tax authorities and the broadcasting industry, which has already been discussed in the Chamber and which also leads to many abuses. I refer, for example, to the inclusion of pension contributions. Like Mr Ulenbelt, I ask the question when we will be able to look at this inventory. Finally, the Labour Party looks forward to the treatment in this Chamber of all the other fine agreements made with social partners last week, whether they are about raising the minimum youth wage or about guaranteeing a decent wage for people working for piecework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u101	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. It is a pity that we will not be able to get to work on the report sooner. 2018 is 2018. I hope that the deadline is really good and that it can just work. It's a good thing we're taking care of seasonal work now. We have already discussed this at length. The invaders remain my only point of attention. Let me be clear: if there is a solution on the collective agreement table tomorrow, well, tomorrow is King's Day, I say, please, very much. Let that also be an appeal to the collective bargaining partners themselves. If that does not happen, we should not run away from taking responsibility. I just read about schools that are indeed about to exchange staff or offer min-max contracts. We stand by and look at it, but we have a responsibility in it. We'll take it. The amendment will be put to the vote. If things do not go well again at a later date, we will be standing here again, precisely in the interests of the children and of the invaders who are now faced with great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u102	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I indicated that the CDA Group is positive about the two parts of this bill. The good news for the minister is that he didn't waste it with his first-term response. I do have some questions. The first question relates to the first part, the enforcement directive and also to the Ulenbelt amendment. 10 and the fact that the Minister spoke in his reply about proportionality. Given Mr Ulenbelt's explanatory statement, I understand that the Minister says that it is not intended for that purpose, that it can be disproportionate and that he thinks it is sanding. In the explanatory memorandum to the law sent to the Chamber, it is explicitly stated that the service provider who comes here must give up a contact person so that contact can be made in the event of questions or unclearness. Would it be disproportionate to say according to the same line: the provider must give a contact address in the Netherlands, so that questions and uncertainties can be contacted? With a slightly different reasoning from Mr Ulenbelt's amendment, one could achieve the same objective, without being disproportionate, given the explanation given by the Minister himself. I'm curious about that. I confess I didn't pay any attention to that in the first place. However, I am curious to hear the answer from Mr Ulenbelt. Then I'll come to the sport. The Minister has made a personal connection and said that he is committed to this. With Mr Van Weyenberg I say that I want to give him the confidence to do so. I hope that also means that we do not have to stand here again, because there are problems in amateur sport. If you do, we'll be standing here again. I hope it's not necessary. I'd like to finish my education. I agree with what Mr Schouten said, but I also make a very explicit appeal to the social partners in education to adopt the good example of agriculture and horticulture. There, employers and workers have shared their solidarity with the small entrepreneurs, the small farmers who had this problem. Small schools have this problem, too. We are having a discussion about this, but they can also resolve this at the negotiating table. I hope they're gonna do that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u103	I give the floor to the Minister. He can answer directly. There's one motion ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u104	Mr. Chairman. The judgment on that one motion in part No. I'll leave 12 to the room. It doesn't say I need to expand capacity. It says that I must keep an eye on whether it does not reduce capacity, and that I must make a proposal to the Chamber if it does. With that wording, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 11 which Mr Ulenbelt has put to the vote, I do not recommend. In my view, it is really not necessary to add this amendment. We've just exchanged a few things about that. On the other amendment, Amendment No 5, which seeks to amend the text of the motion for a resolution, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a Directive on the harmonization of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes (Doc. 10 of Ulenbelt I I may have misunderstood, but I understood Ulenbelt's amendment in such a way that he wants an address and bank account number from the posted worker. That's different from the one who reports it. It must of course report where to find him, otherwise there can be no contact. It becomes disproportionate if you make this kind of additional requirements for each employee to be posted. That's not what it's for. Unless I have completely misunderstood Mr Ulenbelt, I therefore believe that my negative pre-opinion is still justified. I now turn to the questions. I take note of the VVD's view that equal pay for equal work would cost or destroy jobs. As far as I am concerned, it is not entirely followable that if an employer is willing to pay wages, this is the price for work that employers and employees agree with each other. A Dutch employee cannot even offer himself for a lower wage. By definition, he cannot bridge the unfair advantage of a posted worker. I think it is a very curious argument that we should approve of that. I'm going to use the coming months and years if necessary to convince the VVD that if you say you're gonna stand up for him, the hardworking Dutchman.................................................................................................................................................................................... That's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u105	Very briefly, Mrs. Schut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u106	Yes, but I'm being challenged, Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that we think that the foreign detachers who take on a job here and the Dutch employers must comply with the Dutch law, that is to say, with the minimum wage. Anything on top of that belongs to the collective wage. All the studies carried out so far have shown that there is a greater impact on prosperity, i.e. more jobs for everyone, if we allow the internal market to do its job as much as possible. So everyone should be able to sign up for a job. Of course, the VVD believes that the minimum wage should be respected, but the more demands you will make on this posting, the greater the impact on jobs will be. That has already been stated in a sheet, and the Minister himself sent it to the Chamber. That's what we're going to talk about when we have an impact assessment. But it is not an economic inimitable argument at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u107	From an economic point of view, the minimum wage itself is an intervention that you should not want to have. You should then just consider how much an employer would like to pay on a certain day. But if we stick to that, we're really in the world of models. In the world of practice, we in the Netherlands have a system in which wages are determined in consultation. If there are no agreements, the statutory minimum wage applies. If there is consultation, wages will be fixed in the sector. Everyone has to stick to that. Every Dutch employee will receive the same wage, unless he is entitled to more. Those minima vary from sector to sector. If you continue the reasoning, you say: once someone does not come from the Netherlands but is posted here, that agreement does not apply. But wouldn't you be undermining the position of all those Dutch workers? You shouldn't want that. You not only undermine the position of those Dutch employees, but also that of Dutch companies using Dutch employees. They would therefore have a disadvantage over foreign companies. So you praise Dutch employees and Dutch companies from the market. This debate will not end today. That is what I would like to discuss with Mrs Schut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u108	I think that's very good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u109	Even more so, I found the PVV's tendency to vote against enforcement, with the reasoning: we think that the borders should be closed and if they do not close, let everything go. With this proposal we are going to collect fines from companies that penalise Dutch workers. With this proposal we are going to ask the inspection to take action against companies that harm Dutch workers. With this proposal, we are going to address the liability of people who are underpaid and using migrant workers. These are all proposals that the PVV is now saying: that is not convenient for us, we prefer to sit on the testimonial policy. A Dutch employee, however, has nothing to do with that attitude of that party. I come to the questions of the SP. After the summer, I come up with that promised inventory of what you could do nationally. I'll come up with proposals that fall within the law. By then, we can see what you have material, but I'm not going to make proposals that are against the law. It was clear what D66 expects from the commitments. I'm not gonna repeat it. It's gonna stand. To the question about amateur sport, I say: sure. You never know if it'll come back here. It is right that the D66 MP is back here if things do come back. But I have taken a good look at what's going on there and I think the scout has done a good job, too. The amateur sport is a diverse group. That means that we really need to get to an end with these sports associations. NOC*NSF is the first time there, but I do feel committed to seeing how I can contribute to that. Well, that's what the Chamber understood. I say to the Labour Party: sure, those other elements will enter into force on 1 January 2017. With regard to this notification as of 1 January 2018, I would like to say to Mrs Schouten: yes, that must be good. Inventory takes place after the summer. I think we share the same passion for education as such and the interests of children and workers in education are high. We may differ today as to whether or not you can leave it to the social partners, but I can fully endorse the plea made to the social partners. I think their chances of success are best because of a consistent attitude of the cabinet. In itself, however, I hope that the social partners will not only understand Mrs Schouten's appeal, but also respond positively to it. Finally, I come to the questions of the CDA. I think I have answered the question raised by Mr Ulenbelt's amendment. I am pleased that I have not yet lost the support of the CDA in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-32.u110	We shall vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motion on Thursday. I would like to thank the Minister, the MPs, the support officials, the messengers and everyone who has followed this debate on the Internet.
