ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	Received by me his written answers from the Minister of Defense to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister of Defence, as well as the people in the public gallery and the MPs. Today the Minister has the floor for her answers to the questions raised yesterday in the first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have a brief introduction and then deal with a number of issues, such as the American elections, trend break, real costs, follow-up steps in the context of the multiannual perspective, reinforcement and renewal, the price tags that all depend on them, questions that remain open in connection with the WHO, because I had promised that you would not have to come back to them yourself, and European or international cooperation. Then there are a few questions left. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input yesterday. This shows, once again, appreciation for the work of Defence and also for its increased importance, especially in times of uncertainty. This also shows that this was the case during last week's legislative presentations, the appreciation of our people, soldiers and citizens, who are doing this demanding work with full conviction, in the Netherlands and far beyond. It is that willingness to continue where others stop, which forces me day in day out of respect. I'm proud of that, too. I was thinking about this last summer when I got a call from a good friend of mine. He told me that in all likelihood he would not participate in the Gay Pride in Amsterdam. That surprised me, because he's actually always there. I asked him about the why of this, about his reservations. He said, there are so many stories about possible attacks, about threats, about risks, I just don't feel safe anymore and I'm afraid of what might happen. I also thought of this when I saw the footage, you probably also saw them from Sensation White. There was a lot of security and little concealing extra measures following a serious threat. We're talking about a dance party, a party where you should be able to go crazy. I was thinking about this when I got on a plane to a sunny country this summer. The attacks in Brussels earlier this year are still fresh in my memory. And not just me. Another passenger told me he was no longer uninhibited in the departure hall. To be honest, I could imagine all sorts of things. It's about our way of life. That's what they're talking about. How normal is it that public buildings are now heavily guarded, we increasingly have to unpack our bags and have to go through detection gates? Shoes off, belt off, how normal is that, anyway? The world, I think, has become smaller yesterday. Threats and risks that didn't seem abstract and far away so long ago are now concrete and very close. They are small, but also great uncertainties and these uncertainties lead, understandably, to a broad-sensed desire to gain more control over our existence, our future. Living our lives, that's a first basic need. Of course that's what I heard yesterday, a bit of a sound.Then there are always people who say: nice story to invest even more in bombs and grenades. But that's not what I'm waiting for. We need to start the conversation. But how shortsighted is that? Talking to a suicide bomber about to blow himself up in front of you? On the other hand, and I heard that yesterday, there are also people who say: close borders and fences around them, tight. This also applies: how shortsighted you can be. Our interests are completely intertwined with the world around us. I am truly convinced that reality will matter; away from fragmentation and polarisation. Because fragmentation and polarisation on something as essential as our freedom and security will, I suspect, bring us bitterly little. We must continue to fight shoulder to shoulder against regimes, groups and individuals that undermine our way of life. We must stand up for our freedoms that have brought us so much. We must protect our values and our interests. Because one thing I know for sure: our free society is our most powerful weapon. And you know, the Netherlands is a beautiful country. I love this country. A country in which so many people want to make the best of it. From young to old, from believer to showoff. This is what we need to maintain and build on. And yes, the Dutch armed forces play a crucial role in all of this. I have said it many times and say it again: the military force is a basic insurance which must never be treated lightly. The events of recent years have made this clear once again. Many of you pointed that out yesterday. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank your Chamber for its cooperation over the last four years. Of course, there have been differences of opinion and we have also crashed quite a bit. But I am convinced that each of us ultimately has the same goal: to ensure that the Netherlands is a strong country and, above all, remains a strong country. Thank you for that. I am also saying this, of course, because I am convinced that in the coming years we will have to continue to work together to stay safe in an unsafe world. For let me make one thing clear: the stability and freedom that has been built up in many respects in Europe over decades are not self-evident. In fact, they're at stake. It's more than worth fighting hard for. Turning the tide for the better simply doesn't happen on its own. The further reinforcement of the armed forces, I think, is also very much needed in the coming years. I have said this much more often and before, and many of you raised it yesterday. We must continue to defend our essential interests and values, even when it comes to it, and we must do so together with our partners and allies. After all, the DOD protects what is dear to us. The outcome of the American presidential elections underlines the importance of continuing on the path taken and thus a further strengthening of the Dutch armed forces. Donald Trump is not exactly the first American to remind Europe of its responsibilities. It was right that Mrs Eijsink said that yesterday. Obama spoke clear language before. Mr Knops referred to Robert Gates. With Obama and Trump there are many who have made a point of that before. That is right, because Europe will have to do substantially more, take more responsibility and position itself as a reliable, convincing and strong security partner. Not because the Americans are asking us to do so. I have heard this view too often in recent days, but because it is in our own interest. It would be naive to think that others will continue to take coal out of the fire for Europe. The threats and risks facing Europe are crying out for action. So we need to invest in this and join European forces. I shall come back to the subject of European cooperation in detail later. Mr Van Dijk referred to another point concerning Trump. Candidate Trump is waiting to see if President Trump will follow exactly the same course of action. Let me say the following: The Netherlands has always been committed to a two-track policy towards Russia. It is about strengthening the deterrent and collective defence, now that Russia has shown itself on its aggressive side in Ukraine as well as elsewhere. The Russian military threat is deeply felt by our eastern allies. We have to take that seriously. The Netherlands has indicated all this time that it is open to a substantive dialogue, but two parties are needed to do so. So there must also be a willingness on the Russian side to engage in such a constructive dialogue. As long as Russia perseveres in the annexation of Crimea and the far-reaching destabilisation of Eastern Ukraine, there can be no business as usual as far as I am concerned. I suspect, as I say to Mr Van Dijk, that he too would appreciate it if Russia would fully cooperate in the investigation of the MH17 disaster and the trial of the perpetrators. I'm sure of it. I come to the subject of "trend breach." In recent years, we have taken important steps in the right direction. As I pointed out in previous years, the cabinet has caused a trend break, with the support of a number of parties in the Chamber, in particular the SGP, the Christian Union and D66, i.e. the constructive opposition. They contributed to forcing the trend break. The trend break was also badly needed. The successive intensifications now amount to some 870 million euros in structural terms. And yes, I repeat the Chamber and I have raised it much more often myself, the effects of this on the operational workplace are not always felt enough. We are still and above all confronted, whether we like it or not, with past decisions. Those so-called "after-fall effects" are a fact. But there is, as I say to Mr Knops, a real perspective. We are moving forward. Let me say this: the step-by-step increase in the defence budget was certainly not easy. The financial situation is just behind us and we are still recovering. The fact is that we are now taking important steps forward in particular in terms of human and material readiness, i.e. the much-discussed basic readiness. That was high time, too. However, that is not yet the case. Mr Teeven stressed this, and others with him. We're not here yet. I have also shared this with the Chamber many times before. I've been very clear about that. There can be no misunderstanding about that. I did that last year and the year before, and now too. It is also spelled out in several letters that I have sent to the Chamber and which I have spoken about with the Chamber. It is also mentioned in the draft budget, which is on the agenda here today. It is not for nothing that I am calling again and again for the importance of the multiannual perspective and the follow-up that the cabinet has formulated in this context. Much has been said about actual costs. If it goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	When it comes to the follow-up steps, it is of course also important to note that important steps have also been taken in recent years to gain insight into the real costs. What does it cost us anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	It's very important what it costs us, but much more important is what it gets us. The Minister had a very nice introduction. I thought I'd check it out first. But now there are a few statements where I think: if I remain seated, the idea might arise that I agree with that. The Minister would not have thought that, by the way. The Minister spoke of a trend break. She's been talking about that all these years, especially in recent years. But how does it indicate the percentage of GDP not rising in 2012 on the basis of its own plans, compared to the promises made in Wales to grow to 2% of GDP? Then how can the Minister speak of a trend break? I'm not denying that there's been money. But that's half the story. Money has been added, but it is after more than 300 million savings have been made. In the end, all the purchasing power problems have barely increased the purchasing power of the defence industry. I am not saying that it has not increased, but that it has increased barely, too little and too slowly. Perhaps the Minister would like to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	I will get to the real costs, the price tags and the building blocks. However, it is not for nothing that I repeat what I have already said in the various letters I have just spoken about: we are not here yet. At the moment, the state of play is that we have added EUR 870 million in structural terms to the Defence budget. I think that's good news. That wasn't easy, as I just emphasized. But we're not there yet. So steps will have to be taken in the coming years as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	"We're not here yet." This is euphemistic language. We're far from there, it's going too slowly, not fast enough, and the steps are too small. I am referring to the hardcore figures: in the four years of Minister Hennis, the budget as a percentage of GNP has not risen. Then how can the Minister say that there is a trend break? How does the Minister judge this against the sounds from the United States that have been there for a long time, the criticisms of the Court of Auditors and the commitments made in Wales? Is that progress, standstill or barely progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	We're talking about the tallest or biggest thing you want to call it, "Defense budget increase since the Cold War." That's a fact. That makes it a trend break. And with that we are moving forward and there is a perspective. We are not yet here, so steps will have to be taken in the years to come. I'll get back to you on that in a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is indeed a trend break, but there is also something going on. There's still claims from the veterans. We are talking about the AOW-hole and overdue maintenance. The Court of Auditors was very critical. We know that in recent years, not only under Rutte II, but also under Rutte I, considerable cuts have been made. So net we don't even get the 800 million in the plus. The VVD also said in the first term that it is still insufficient. Will this Secretary of Defense, when resources are released from the Navy Note, stand in the front and say: I have not yet enough, so can additional resources be released in view of all the needs of the Defense Department and the unrest in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm not going to anticipate a possible release at all, but I certainly didn't turn my heart into a murder pit in identifying the problems with the armed forces. I'm at the very beginning of my answers right now. I shall come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	Indeed, the minister never has her heart in the past... how do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	It's a murder pit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yeah, made a murder pit. That's a bizarre statement for a Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	I don't suppose she's gonna do that in the remaining four or five months either. If the Chamber helps her, can we join together in the Navy's note to exonerate additional funds for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	The Minister will come back to that, I understand. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	Sure. But again, I'm not going to anticipate a possible release. Something like that is always the subject of conversation in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	I am, of course, pleased with the resources that have been added. We have tried to play a role in this together with others. I don't understand why the cabinet doesn't put a dot on the horizon. Why doesn't the Cabinet say we're going to NATO in ten years? That would also be easier for the minister to manage her ministry, because then she could make all kinds of decisions and start processes. Why doesn't the Cabinet do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	The dot on the horizon is formulated in the context of the multiannual perspective. However, we have not set price tags and ruled over different cabinets. I'll be right back to why. Mrs Eijsink asked a question yesterday about multiannual plans. I will come back to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	Those are beautiful lyrics in themselves. If you have to decide in the day-to-day business in the Ministry about investment paths for frigates, submarines, F-35 and so on, it is important what budget you expect to have in five or ten years' time. Do I actually hear the Minister say: in the mind of the Ministry we assume that we are going to the NATO 2% standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Ministry, the department and the people who work very hard there have, of course, become wise over the past two decades because of damage and shame. We have also discussed the impact of almost political daily rates on an organisation such as Defence in the previous budget discussions. At that time we also said that it is very easy to say that it often sounds as easy to say: half a billion here and half a billion there. But for an organization like Defense, that immediately results in the disabling of units and equipment. The armed forces can be aborted in an afternoon. I've said that a lot. But building takes forever. I think with Mr Dijkgraaf that politics in a broad sense will think again about cutting back on the rücksichtslos for a long time on an organization such as Defence. But I will come back to the multiannual plans and the need for perspective. I was just talking about actual costs. How much is this going to cost? Did we have that insight? We didn't have enough insight. It wasn't exactly easy to get that insight either. I will not tire you of everything I have found, but I just referred to the political daily rates of the past two decades. I can tell you that they have undoubtedly had their influence on the department. The fact is that we are no longer just looking at the costs associated with the purchase of certain weapons systems. We now assume the so-called lifetime costs. Of course there are setbacks of all times, but a stable picture is indeed a prerequisite for an orderly planning at all and that picture was really not there. It is a prerequisite to build a financially sustainable organisation and avoid uncomfortable surprises as much as possible. We know these uncomfortable surprises all too well. This means no longer closing holes with holes and no longer covering operating deficits with investment money. To this day, together with Finance, we are working hard to get the armed forces on a sustainable footing. A first example of this was the introduction of the possibility of taking investment money to the following year, the year-end margin. At first hardly anyone noticed, but this appears to have been a seemingly small, but ultimately very important intervention. It did not happen on its own, certainly not, I say to Mr Knops. However, the Central Bureau of Statistics is now studying the possibility of a defence-specific price index. That is important, because the prices of military equipment do indeed seem to rise more rapidly internationally than normal prices, with all the consequences for our purchasing power. I consider an adequate settlement to be important, as do Mrs Günthal, Mr Knops and Mr Teven and others. Additional money has also been added to the 2017 budget to help cope with the significant effects of currency fluctuations. I have said before that until, I believe, 2011 there was some sort of bandwidth. I do not know why the rules of the game changed at the time, but the fact is that we have now made progress and that we have taken another step in the right direction. I would say to Mrs Belhaj that there is also a further improvement in business management, as she certainly has a point there. After all, extra money is not the solution for everything. The Court of Auditors has also noted this and the Court has been informed of this earlier. The Court of Auditors' opinion came in quite well; it was harsh. At the same time, I see this as a clear and therefore clear encouragement to continue with full force and without restraint on the path of strengthening and renewal. It is known that this is mainly about material readiness. Let there be no misunderstanding that every effort is being made at my ministry to get that ready as soon as possible to the required level. The Chamber has seen that an important part of the extra money for the 2017 budget has gone there as well. All this is without prejudice to the fact that there is still plenty of work to be done. Mr Knops, Mr Voordewind, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Teeven, Mrs Eijsink and others have also pointed this out. Mr Teeven asked me yesterday to reflect on this, and of course I do so with love. I have just said that further steps are also necessary in the coming years. In other words, we have come a long way. I am convinced that we are on the right track, but we are simply not there yet. The cabinet has not for nothing mapped out three concrete follow-up steps on the basis of the three strategic tasks that we discussed in detail last year. I will not therefore go into them again now, but I shall briefly mention them. First of all, it's about staying safe. I would point out the increased threat to both the east and south flanks of Europe and to collective defence. Secondly, I call bringing safety. Security in the context of instability around Europe within the framework of the international legal order. I am thinking, for example, of safeguarding trade interests and addressing terrorist threats or excessive migratory pressures. The third task is to connect the Netherlands safely with the world around him, because the Netherlands is an international bottleneck. We are dealing with a heavy movement of goods and persons, services and data, and we owe a great deal of our wealth to that. In short, these three strategic challenges, summarised as staying safe, bringing security and connecting safely, require our attention, not only now but also in the years to come. This also applies to a subsequent cabinet, regardless of its composition. Those challenges concern us all, from left to right. They flow from our most essential interests and values. I would also like to say to Mr Teeven that I have spoken with the Chamber earlier about the necessary follow-up steps in the context of the multiannual perspective, but I would like to reflect on this. Firstly, investments are needed to enable the current armed forces to continue and renew where necessary. The replacement of weapons systems which are at the heart of our strength alone requires more budget than is currently available to Defence in the budget. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. That was the case in the previous budget, by the way. This means that a further investment impulse is needed in the coming years too, because without this investment impulse, choices and a reduction in employability objectives are, in my view, inevitable. As is well known, the investment needs of the current armed forces include a quantity of large and small projects. Examples of this are the replacement of the underwater and surface fleet, the replacement of vehicles such as the Fennek and the Bushmaster, the midlife update of the Apache fighter helicopter, the replacement of the C-130 transport plane and so on. These are also matters that may in the first instance speak less of the imagination, such as the replacement of water drilling installations and the long-range rifle. With the additional resources for the 2017 budget, we can put the basic set-up in order, but as mentioned in the budget, Mrs Günal-Gezer quoted that yesterday, rightly so, it is important for the long-term readiness to carry out replacement investments. In other words, in the absence of a new investment impulse in the coming years, choices will have to be made between these types of projects in order to remain within the financial frameworks. It goes without saying that such choices also, and almost by definition, affect the size and composition of the armed forces. Or to say it very black and white and to point out the urgency: there will then be discussions about a navy with or without frigates or submarines, an air force with or without helicopters, an army with or without armoured vehicles, about no longer investing in the cyber domain and so on. And, yes, I say right away, also to Mr Dijkgraaf, that all this is always a political consideration. But it will not surprise me if I say that the long absence of a new investment impulse seems extremely unwise to me. Anyway, but now all the way. It is not for nothing that the appeal to the armed forces is growing nationally and internationally. It is not for nothing that NATO and the EU underline that timely replacement and renewal of weapons systems has become more urgent. The above concerns the first follow-up step: investment. I come to the second follow-up step, which concerns the improvement of operational combat support, in professional terms the "combat support" and the "combat service support." The employability of our armed forces is largely determined by the number of support units at our disposal, such as artillery, maintenance, supply and intelligence. I explained that during the WHO last week. There has been considerable savings in the past, in the Netherlands but also in our partners. We thought at that time that we might be able to appeal to those partners, but since they were also making cuts, borrowing is now practically impossible. Here too, NATO and the EU have repeatedly stressed the need for the member states, including the Netherlands, to be able to provide this support themselves. Finally, the third step is the extension and further modernisation of the armed forces. Our opponents are also increasingly technologically high-quality. Conflicts increasingly have a high intensity of violence. Mr Van Dijk spoke again yesterday about 'the peacekeeping force'. I have often exchanged with him that the world is not just made up of flowers and bees and that we do not determine what the military looks like but the opponent. The armed forces won't be pushed into a mess. We're dealing with a high intensity of violence. Then you want your people to be prepared for that. The rapid developments in the cyber and information domain also mean that we cannot sit back. Mrs Belhaj was right to point that out. We must continue to invest in this. If we are to be able to participate in various activities and operations at the same time for a longer time and in sufficient size, we really need more units at some point. Only then can we really talk about increasing the employability targets. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I would like to say that these three follow-up steps are not simply about more of the same investment, support and expansion/renovation. On the contrary: reinforcement and renewal must really go hand in hand. Our current armed forces offer a good starting point, but in the coming years, as part of the three follow-up steps I have just outlined, Defence will also have to innovate vigorously. We must therefore make the most of new technologies and scientific developments in order to continue to cope with an unsafe world. I think that is very important, for a multitude of reasons. I would like to outline six lines of development for the future. Firstly, unlike the last few decades, the American and certainly European armed forces will no longer have military and technological dominance. A large number of countries, especially the Netherlands, have lost a lot of fighting power and perseverance in recent years. Investment in high-quality, modern weapon systems is necessary. The character of the bet also changes. We've talked about that a lot. This is mainly due to the application of hybrid tactics, for example. The importance of strategic communication and information operations has increased considerably. Room's got that sharp. In fact, this is already indispensable. Secondly, the digital age and the information revolution are leading to far-reaching consequences. We have also talked about this on many occasions. NATO now regards the cyber domain as an integral part of military action, and rightly so. The armed forces must be able to act fully information-driven, but certainly in the future. A stronger intelligence position is essential for this, as is a high-quality IT. Thirdly, cooperation is unabated. A lot has been said about this yesterday, and I will come back to it later. Defence is distinguished by the ability to address both external and internal security. This is an important quality, especially in a world where global and local are actually directly and immediately linked. Yes, in this cabinet period, the Netherlands has taken the lead in the further deepening of international military cooperation. The same is true of cooperation at national level. A third of our armed forces, you know that, but sometimes it doesn't seem clear to everyone that they are already operating within our borders. Think of border surveillance by the Royal Marechaussee, the Coast Guard, airspace surveillance, explosives disposal and almost daily assistance to the D.A. and the police. I can go on like this for a while. Fourthly, technological developments are taking place very quickly. Major steps are being taken in terms of artificial intelligence, robotics, biotechnology, nanotechnology and 3D printing. In particular, the combination of these areas and their progress will, I suspect, have revolutionary consequences. We already know systems that are remotely controlled. Such systems will increasingly carry out military tasks. Investing in technological innovation has become all the more urgent as potential opponents continue to modernise their armed forces and technologies become wider and relatively easily accessible. Especially in this respect, innovation is also very important for the maximum protection of our Dutch military and for the prevention of civilian casualties. Fifthly, I would like to highlight the speed with which crises occur, as well as the increased diversity and complexity of threats and risks. This calls for a manoeuvrable force with great capacity for action. Both units and individual military personnel must be able to adapt rapidly to changing operational conditions and assignments. The support of the armed forces must therefore make this necessary manoeuvrability possible. I am talking, for example, about faster acquisition or production of equipment or about being able to innovate quickly to solve a problem. Finally, of course, in the future our people will continue to determine the quality of the armed forces. It is not for nothing that I have said more often that they are our most important capital. However, the requirements imposed on certain functions will be subject to change, probably at a rapid pace. That is inevitable, because the environment is also changing at a very fast pace. In addition, the Defence Department would like to be able to rely on an integrated mix of personnel, consisting of professional soldiers, civilian staff and reservists, supplemented by hiring, contributions from strategic partners and contributions from society. Mr Knops spoke about this last week. That really requires a different view of Defence and therefore also of working with external parties. I said earlier that I would send a separate letter to the Chamber later this year about the Total Force Concept. Several Members have spoken about the possible price tags attached to the follow-up steps. They have spoken about the well-known NATO standard, which Mr Dijkgraaf just did. First of all, let me stress that it is not for nothing that I have said very often that the Netherlands should become more in tune with the other NATO countries in the field of defence expenditure. We are not only below the much discussed NATO standard of 2% GDP, as was rightly pointed out, but also well below the average of the European NATO countries. In that respect, therefore, we are simply lacking. We don't have to create a fog about that. It is not for nothing that I have repeatedly argued in debates that we need to catch up and that, in this context, I consider the European NATO average to be a logical first point of reference for the Netherlands. This will require an increase in the Defence budget of some EUR 2.3 billion. If you embezzle that, you could use the three follow-up steps outlined, i.e. investment, support and enlargement/modernisation, all to a large extent. If you look purely at the cost of what is needed to continue the current military force in the longer term and make it more employable, then I am only talking about the first two follow-up steps, so investment and support, we are talking about an amount of about 1 billion, as I said in the legislative consultation last week. Just over half of this is needed for investment and just under half for operational support. I would stress that all of this is, at present, a technical exercise that still needs to be validated externally. We are working hard on that. So far we have tried to calculate as best as possible what it costs to maintain existing capacities in a structural manner. This has not been easy, because there is no such thing as a price list of defence equipment that you can request from dealers or entrepreneurs. I wish! Moreover, it has not been said at all that we would like to re-purchase exactly the same systems, because reinforcement and renewal must go hand in hand. I can't stress that enough. So one-on-one replacement can't be an end in itself. However, this creates an image of what is needed in the future. Here too, everything is ultimately a political balance. I would like to underline another aspect in this context. Mr Knops did so just now, and others, like Mr Teeven, did so yesterday. In addition to the price tag I have just outlined, the financial sustainability of Defence is under pressure from exogenous factors; we also briefly discussed this during the legislative consultation. That didn't exactly happen yesterday. Yesterday, Mr Knops referred to the 2010 reconnaissance, in which there was actually already talk about the lack of a price adjustment. I have already said something about the need for adequate price adjustment and the effects of currency fluctuations. We spoke yesterday, for example, about the consequences of a planned AOW-hole. We have talked about several court rulings with sometimes far-reaching financial consequences. We also talked about the increased claim culture. Defence is an implementation department and has virtually no budget flexibility or financial instruments to properly address the consequences of such exogenous factors. In other words, such expenditure caused by those exogenous factors will sooner or later be at the expense of the operational capabilities of Defence. This is a factor to be taken into account, not only now, but certainly also in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u23	I'll come back to that dot on the horizon anyway. In itself, the Minister makes a good story. I hear that, in the next cabinet period, a minimum of 2.3 billion would be needed. As far as we're concerned, that's still on the skinny side. My concern is that now the Defense Department will start thinking again from the perspective that more is not feasible. Long-term thinking in the defence sector should be based on the NATO standard, because that is the international agreement. It should decide what the plans look like in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u24	I can reassure Mr Dijkgraaf in that respect, because we are not exactly going to sit on our hands with the Defense Department. Political daily prices from the past are not guarantees for the future. I hope that the daily rates will look really different in the future. So we are working hard on what is possible with certain intensifications, additional money or stable growth towards 2% or the European NATO average in the coming years. It will always be a journey of years. Those plans are all being worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u25	May I interpret that in such a way that, when the formation comes to light with a number of parties, I will not put up nameplates and there will be a perspective on NATO standard, then Defence has the plans ready: so that we can fill that out properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u26	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u27	The Minister clearly and quite rightly points out that defence is a core task of the government, of all of us, and that it must be possible for defence to rely on policies that ensure budget security within a given period of time. We have spoken before about defence agreements in many forms. There are plans for this. Does the Ministry have roadmaps that can also be incorporated into what I have always referred to as the defence agreements? The Minister also states clearly and quite rightly that not everything can always be seen to the point. But are there any roadmaps or scenarios that are useful as some sort of defence agreement, also multiannual?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u28	Yeah, there's a lot of work going on on these schematics right now. I ordered several scenarios to be devised and developed a long time ago. If asked for it, it is always a political balancing act, there can also be delivered. To Mrs Eijsink I know that she attaches great importance to this. I say that stability of course is an important condition in order to balance ambitions and resources sustainably. We were just talking about it. Finishing goes fast, build up and get units sailing, flying and driving takes endlessly. It is not for nothing that we have taken up these scenarios. Reliability and predictability I know that Mrs Eijsink also attaches great importance to this. The NATO agreement on the level of defence expenditure is an important guideline in this respect. I know that the Chamber has been fully involved in shaping the form in which multi-annual defence agreements can take shape in the Dutch context. Clingendael has done research for this purpose on behalf of the Defense Department and has looked in particular at the practice in some Scandinavian countries. This has also led to an increase in this subject in the Chamber, which I welcome. Ultimately, broad political and social support is needed to make multi-annual agreements. It is also up to politics, all of us, to identify useful leads. In the Netherlands, government agreements with a four-year rhythm contain the multiannual agreements on the Dutch defence effort on broad lines. So I can also imagine that the Chamber will discuss this further in the coming period and that the parties will be able to bring it back to the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u29	I thank the Minister for her answer. We go even further: there have also been defence agreements from the Chamber with a motion. So there is even more support than mentioned. With my question, I would like to make one more fundamental point at this point. The Minister's memo of September 2013 concerned basic and niche capacities. To what extent has sufficient research been carried out and not at the speed with which we are now working, with which the Minister is now working, what is the situation with other countries? That is, of course, the next step, should a coalition decide on long-term defence agreements for four, five years, calm and cleanliness for the armed forces, I would almost say. After all, we made new decisions on basic and niche capacities in October 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u30	The Netherlands is certainly not an island. That is what Mrs Eijsink likes to emphasise, and I very much agree with her. With regard to basic and niche capabilities, we have previously established that each armies has a number of basic capabilities, which both NATO and the EU expect each country, each Member State, to have. This concerns, for example, frigates, fighter planes and infantry units. In addition, there is a number of niche capacities, such as our current Walrus class or the Patriot units, which are not necessary for all countries within NATO or the EU to have access to them. But it is important for the alliance or the Union to have access to it. In this context, shortcomings are identified within NATO, and certainly also within the EU, and increasingly so within the EU: what are deficits, what can you respond to as a country, what does the alliance need? The Netherlands is already fully aware of this, of course within the financial frameworks at our disposal. The Netherlands will continue to do so, because I am truly convinced that international cooperation is the only way forward. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to the rest of Europe. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, my phone keeps ringing itself. That will be the voice control; I don't know how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u31	Something strange is happening in this debate, at least that is how I experience it. The Minister put forward her vision again, while this debate was mainly about noticing that it was also about the contributions of the various Members to take a look back at the last four years. I must honestly say that in recent years I have rarely had a disagreement with the Minister about her vision. So I'm sitting here listening and thinking: what the Minister wants all makes sense. But I'd still like to take a look back. The Minister is almost a political commentator here, while she has been responsible for the conclusions she has just drawn over the past four years: we are doing much less than other NATO countries, we have not taken enough extra steps and we need to take more. This actually puts the debt papers for the coming period on the table pontifically with a nice story, which you think: yes, that is indeed the problem. But the reality is that the Minister has been responsible for this for four years. My question is, what went wrong? What went wrong? What has gone wrong over the past four years, so that the Minister's fantastic vision, which I fully support, has not become a reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u32	I had hoped that this moment would not come because I have Mr Knops high for who he is, because of the politician he is. I am glad that we share a vision. Let me put that in front of you. But I am beginning to lose a little bit of patience, because I have just explained what I have found more or less, what mess I have been able to deal with over the past four years and what steps I have taken in an incredibly difficult situation, namely the financial crisis. I appreciate that Mr Knops has apologized several times for the cuts under Rutte I. We all have VVD, CDA. Never again. At the same time, there is always this vicious criticism that I would have done too little. I would also like to take a look back with Mr Knops. This cabinet, as I have just said, had to write a government agreement at the time of a financial crisis, which is now finally beginning to bear fruit. The future of a number of important services such as care, the AOW and the social safety net is now guaranteed for future generations. In several budget agreements, the cabinet was supported by opposition groups, not by the CDA. For example, there were the housing agreement, the budget agreement, the pension agreement and the healthcare agreement, all agreements that the CDA did not participate in. The CDA was against a lot of reforms. I can tell you one thing. These reforms are going to cost society not one billion, but billions. This cabinet is making it difficult to invest in defence in very difficult financial times - almost EUR 900 million structuralally - but last year the CDA voted against the Defence budget and thus against the increase in the defence budget. And yes, Mr Knops tabled an amendment with Mr Dijkgraaf last month. I appreciate that very much. It's $100 million. The same Mr. Knops spoke of billions. Put your money where your mouth is; Mr Knops has often said that to me. I might be able to say the same now. Perhaps it would have been better if the CDA had once sat down at the negotiating table to look ahead in a broader context, to look at what is possible. Looking ahead now, I see in the CDA's programme that the NATO agreements are gradually being built up, that the European average is being sought over the next cabinet period. I really appreciate that. The VVD chooses more or less similar terms. But where are the really hard sums that Mr Knops has asked for before? Last year I said: I might have expected a flower for all the intensifications we added to the budget. I won't repeat this. I very much appreciated Mr Knops's little flower. But I would also like to stress that over the last four years, while we were still in the global crisis and were trying to get out of it, we have really done our stinking best to get Defence to move forward again. Mr Knops knows how it works, because the CDA has ruled enough times. As an opposition party, the CDA has also struggled to find large amounts of money to add to the Defence budget. So I would like to say to Mr Knops: if we share the same vision, why do we not join forces and fight for the same instead of taking the same measure? Of course, Mr Knops can be critical. I told you, we collide. But in the end, Mr Knops and I have the same goal in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yeah, this was...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u34	Just...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u35	The issue of preparation skills is extremely well in hand with this Minister. I like that as well, but of course it requires a reaction. I don't know if that's possible in a term, but, well, we still have time, up to four hours. This is an essential point. Because, indeed, it is my job to control the minister, whether I am a representative of the coalition or of the opposition, there is no difference in state law. I apologized, the Minister said it for a cabinet for which this minister was also in the coalition at the time. I asked the Minister to do the same. She was as responsible for it as I was. I even brought Mr Teeven a flower last year. Not because I agreed with the Minister's entire policy, but she deserved it, because for this minister's sake he has a very high figure on the report. I really mean that. But if the Minister says that we have done nothing in recent years, that is in fact absolutely wrong. Over the last few years, we have put on the table a total of over 800 million in amendments, which have been voted away by the coalition, because I would like to mention just one example: the gaming tax should not be increased. Then this Minister cannot say that the CDA merely criticized and did not. It is true that we have not signed a number of agreements. That's absolutely true. But when it comes to defence and proper cover, we have really delivered in recent years. It would adorn the minister if she admitted it. Well, then there's really only one very small problem. Because then we'll share a vision and then we'll both have contributed to more money for the Defense Department. Then there is the question: why have the coalition not taken over the proposals we have made for defence in recent years? Why has this cabinet, despite the things that it has done well I do not have so much speaking time, so I cannot name all the things that have gone well; I must concentrate on the things that could or should not have done better? Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u36	I think I have just indicated that I appreciate Mr Knops's commitment, as a person, as a politician, as a former military officer and as a supporter of the armed forces. So I know how it's in there. I also know that we have the same vision. So I appreciate the work done by the CDA on this issue. For which I have less appreciation, this is the following. Mr Knops refers to the CDA amendments that have been tabled, for which there seems to be no support in the Chamber. I'm not going over the latter. The amounts involved in these amendments are about as large as the intensifications that we have put on the table. It is high time for the CDA to acknowledge that we are recovering and that we are coming out of that very difficult period. I, too, would have liked to have seen a money boom somewhere, which we could pick up to raise the defence budget and fit the NATO standard in two years' time. Reality is different and tough. We've fought for every penny for every euro. As far as I'm concerned, it was worth it. I have also acknowledged that Mr Knops wants to hear that we are not yet here and that, in the coming years too, responsibility will have to be taken by the VVD, the CDA and a new cabinet, of any composition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u37	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u38	PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u39	Also the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u40	SP, GroenLinks, D66, SGP, ChristenUnion, PVV, everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u41	Here's what I'm gonna do. Indeed, the Minister cannot help the fact that the amendments we have tabled, partly together with the SGP, have not been supported by the Chamber. In doing so, the coalition groups have taken the lead. That is just a fact, I say to Mrs Eijsink. That is, once again, a matter for the Chamber. But we have tabled amendments on top of the additional resources. These funds had been released by the cabinet itself, supported by us. So if the Minister says that we did not approve the budget last year, I say that there were reasons for that. It was not just about money, but also about the way in which it had been created. My conclusion is still reached in the second term, but I would like to say once again that I very much appreciate the Minister's efforts, although I cannot come to a conclusion other than that the real hard progress in budget is not in line with what NATO wants and what other countries in Europe are doing. In fact, the Minister himself has just acknowledged this, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u42	I am very pleased, because my conclusion is that we will join forces in the coming years and ensure that the necessary follow-up steps are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u43	I thought I would give Mr Knops this little debate. Maybe the CDA hasn't been the most reliable group when it comes to the things it wants for the Defense Department. D66 is, so I don't think there's any need for a functional interview. However, Mr Knops asked the essential question whether the Minister could reflect on certain dossiers which have not been successfully completed, perhaps with an explanation as to why not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u44	This is very general. We have debated a number of issues in recent years: cases that have now been resolved and cases that are still ongoing. There have been painful moments. There is still considerable research into chrome-containing paint. I welcome the establishment of the Joint Committee. We've had a lot of problems with our IT, which is being worked out day in, day out. In fact, high-quality IT is perhaps the most important weapon system for the armed forces to continue to do what became important in the future. I'm not running away from the fact that there have been a lot of problems, I've picked up all those problems and I haven't left anything. I want to be able to look myself in the mirror. Mrs Belhaj is actually asking if everything has been cleaned up in four years. Not for nothing have I said a few times that we are absolutely on the right track. A great deal has been achieved, including internally when it comes to business management and financial sustainability, but we are not there yet. Something like that takes more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u46	I come to European international cooperation. Many, from left to right, talked about it. One is more in favour, the other is declared opponent. But one thing I know for sure: we still find each other in the interests of international cooperation and recent developments in the transatlantic relationship and the EU. That is quite right; that is what I said at the beginning. It is in our own interests that we continue to invest in this cooperation. I am also very pleased that many of you see that the Netherlands is at the forefront within Europe in shaping this further cooperation. In particular, further steps have been taken in recent years with Germany and Belgium. I do not need to repeat them all, because we have often talked about them. I would mention, for example, the integration of Dutch and German army units and the monitoring of airspace with Belgium. The Chamber receives a comprehensive overview of international military cooperation once a year. It appoints our strategic partners, but it also states that this cooperation is not only limited to those strategic partners. There may be other considerations on the basis of this. The Chamber has seen how we have acted during the Dutch Presidency of the European Union. During that presidency, the Global Strategy was adopted. The creation of the Global Strategy didn't exactly go by itself, but it is now. This Strategy "strategy" in good Dutch "strategy" is of a totally different order than the 2003 strategy. Then we said: Europe has never been so safe, free and prosperous. But now we say: the Union is under pressure; there are all kinds of dangers and we are on the verge of seriously undermining the Union not only through internal but also external factors. The Global Strategy was presented and welcomed by the Heads of State or Government at the European Council on 27 June. Mrs Eijsink referred to the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of last Monday. Ministers welcomed the implementation plan for security and defence. That information plan will develop the Global Strategy. In fact, the plan describes the EU's level of ambition in the field of security and defence. For example, the EU should be able to respond to external conflicts and crises. In addition, it should invest in capacities and build capacities of partners in order to provide protection for itself and for its Member States. The plan also announces proposals to set priorities for capacity development, to deepen defence cooperation, to review or adapt structures and financial instruments, to explore possibilities for permanent and structured cooperation, the much discussed PESCO, and to strengthen cooperation with partners such as NATO and the UN. There was unanimous support for the implementation plan, I say to Mrs Eijsink. The Chamber will, of course, receive a short-term response, because that is the key question, and that is a cabinet-made appreciation of the plan. I have said many times, and I repeat this once again, that in the current geopolitical and security context we cannot promise completely voluntary and non-binding cooperation. During the first two years, there has been a lot of talk between the Defence Ministers about the need for more cooperation. But when we talk, we don't dent in a pack of butter. It must also be translated into action. It is important for the Member States to note that this is still the driving force behind European defence cooperation. You cannot force something simply because we want it here, or because Mr Juncker wants it. Member States are the driving force in this respect. They should therefore also be encouraged, and I say this to Mrs Belhaj in particular, in order to strengthen the strength of cooperation in Europe. This benefits not only Europe, but also the European pillar within NATO. I have been a Member of the European Parliament myself, I have worked for the European Commission and I am now in my current role in the Council of Defence Ministers. I am sure of one thing: if a sort of suffocating mission is given to the Member States in this policy area of top-down, nothing will come of this European defence cooperation. That is why it is so important to create them, especially from the Member States and the armed forces themselves. The implementation plan provides a good start to this, but the members will all see and read this for themselves. I also really believe that this further cooperation is necessary in order to increase the effectiveness of security and defence policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u47	I fully agree with the Minister that this cooperation is necessary in order to increase effectiveness, but does the Minister see with the VVD Group that this can never lead to a European army?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u48	Sure. The implementation plan has a lot of good stuff, I just said, but it's not a lot either. It is by no means the start of a European army. In good English: a single set of European armed forces. I'm saying this because it seems to be some kind of magic word, that European army. However, we do not have a NATO army either. You work very closely together. I have been clear about this before, but I would just like to say once again: the creation of a European army, which says that an army is being deployed on the basis, for example, of a decision by the European Commission, which the European Parliament has yet to agree to, cannot really be a matter for me. We send our people, far away or close, to missions under difficult conditions, with risks of life and death. This kind of decision on the transmission of our military services, which also applies to the French, German, British and so on, must be taken as close to home as possible. In other words, each country decides and will continue to decide on the deployment of its own units. Mr Teeven specifically asked for this yesterday, and I am right to say this: NATO remains the primary framework, including in Europe, for collective defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u49	These are clear texts and they make a motion on my part, which would say that a European army is undesirable, unnecessary, because then I think the Minister says: hello, I have just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u50	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u51	I therefore withdraw my motion which has not yet been tabled. I do have one more question. Mrs Eijsink actually asked me the same question. We're gonna work together a lot more. In itself, we are in favour of this, because then we can increase the impact force. But how do we prevent us from getting into a process where it becomes so complex that you say: now we actually have to do it at a higher than national level, because we have units that can be deployed? I think it is possible to keep the decision here at all times, and that will also be the starting point for me, but is that also the Minister's starting point? Does she see any problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u52	I am very pragmatic and practical in this. I am Dutch, I am European and I see that we need each other in Europe to be able to make a fist at all when it comes to the world around us. But I have just made it clear that, as far as I am concerned, there is no such thing as a European Commission that is going to decide on the commitment of Dutch men and women. That's just not gonna happen. I have also said that further defence cooperation must take the form of bottom-up cooperation from the armed forces themselves. You can also see that the most powerful partnerships in the Benelux and between Germany and the Netherlands, really originated from the armed forces themselves, because they have found each other, because they understand each other, because they follow the same doctrines. I am also committed to this, because I know one thing for sure: if you want 28 EU Member States in this area, which is still perceived as a sensitive area, to set the clocks at one time, then we can wait until midnight. Then nothing happens at all, then there is in no way the question of joining forces. Most countries are like this. A great deal has been said recently, particularly in connection with the election of Trump, but also earlier, about a European military force and a military headquarters. Like we're waiting for more bricks, flags and federal symbols. None of that is necessary. However, we must look at the structures that we have and whether we can set them up better and more efficiently in order, for example, to better shape the planning of civilian and military missions. But all this can be done within the existing structures. Once again, I was a Member of the European Parliament and I have worked for the European Commission and I see the usefulness and necessity of Europe. But Europe's great danger - and I am going to speak English for a moment - is that we are not yet the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, and so on. So let us, if we want this to be successful and if we want to be Europe's block within NATO of added value, for God's sake, ensure that this is done in a practical and pragmatic way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u53	Those are fine lyrics, but at the same time there is a lot of mistrust, also with my own party. In the past, it was always set up from the bottom up, when cooperation increased and the cabinet said at some point: we are now so far away that you have to lift it to a higher level. So I understand the Minister as follows: the partnerships that stimulate them will always be set up in such a way that we in our Parliament will always be concerned with the use of our own military forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u54	The answer to that is yes. We have often debated this and I am committed to saying it again. There can be no misunderstanding about that. However, if you integrate units or jointly acquire a certain weapon system, you want to be a reliable partner. I feel that the view in this house resonates that, if you step into a partnership, you should not only step into it with the right resources and people but also be reliable. When it comes to bet, don't say every time: hey, I'm not giving it at home right now, figure it out for yourself. The aspect of reliability may be more important than in the past. But there can be no misunderstanding that the Dutch government ultimately decides whether or not to send our people to a mission area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u55	On that last point, I would like to continue. Of course, that's where it gets exciting. This is not so much the question of the future perspective in terms of: whether or not a European army? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and this Minister think differently about this. Actually, that's not very interesting. Interestingly, what will happen in the coming years is what the Minister remains unclear about. The fact that you have to be a reliable partner and you cannot always give up at home in the case of commitment has always been the case in the NATO alliance. The question of sovereignty is therefore very relative. After all, you are bound by such an agreement to help your allies. What do you mean, total sovereignty? It's a theoretical concept. I ask the Minister to respond to the following. What concrete steps does it intend to take to implement not only technical cooperation but also integration, as it is now taking place with the Belgians and the Germans? How does it see this in the light of the ensuing joint responsibility and the joint decision-making process, which I cannot imagine would not arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u56	We see that this cooperation is now being continued. Mrs Eijsink rightly said yesterday that naval cooperation has been in place for some time. We often talk about this, almost once a quarter, when there is another Council on this subject. We are also talking about political decision-making. In many cases, the problem is certainly not with the armed forces who want to cooperate, but the problem is much more in political decision-making, so the will to act as a reliable partner. I would find it interesting to know how a party like GroenLinks fills that out. I fully agree with Mr Grashoff that the concept of sovereignty in 2016 needs to be defined significantly differently from that of so many years ago. It is no longer about that piece of land called the Netherlands, but it is about large, cross-border interests: cyber, energy, raw materials, trade lines, international legal order and much more. You can only serve those interests together. That's why you have to want to work together. In order to have more power, it is important that we integrate units, it is important that we have certain capacities together. If I understand Mr Grashoff correctly, he says he is in favour of such a European military force. This means that Mr Grashoff is transferring the power of decision on the stakes to a European institution. Then I think back to previous difficult times for GroenLinks in which it was about the deployment of the Dutch armed forces. What Mr Grashoff is saying here therefore implies a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u57	This is a debate trick, which is to reverse the question and then say'reply to the question I have put to you'. I'm not gonna do that right now. Yesterday, moreover, it was discussed in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Dijk, among others, which I think is interesting. I was, I think, very clear about the dot on the horizon. As far as I am concerned, not that spot on the horizon is the most interesting, but the steps that will be taken in the coming years. I can expect the Minister to answer me when I ask what vision she has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u58	I have often expressed my view on this, namely that there is only one way forward and that we need to work more and more together. This cooperation is designed from the bottom up. The Netherlands is at the forefront of this. There are also partnerships that can be copied by groups of other countries or that can be expanded because other countries join. We're going to do air traffic control with the Belgians now. Some aspects will probably also be taken up with the French and Germans, but that does not quite cover it, because for that the airspace is too large again. The EATC (European Air Transport Command) in Eindhoven is the example of what can be rolled out much further, for example for the naval forces. We discussed the replacement of the tanker-transport aircraft in detail the other day. It is an almost impossible task for the Netherlands to do so on its own. That's why we're doing it together now. The Netherlands is the lead nation. All these lands will no longer have their own KDC-10 or their replacement. No, there's gonna be a pool of planes and we're gonna take hours in there. We are already doing this with the C-17s, which are in Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u59	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u60	I've shared this with the Chamber many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u61	Your answers must also be brief, as must the interruptions. Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u62	I can only conclude that the Minister, with a very long answer, is precisely about the hot stuff, about what matters: how do you end up with command structures and steering structures when it matters tactically? That is what the Minister is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u63	I have the feeling that we are repeating a debate here a few weeks ago. We then talked about Europe's operational headquarters. We have five. We then discussed the need to better coordinate military and civilian missions within certain structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u64	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u65	I do not know whether Mr Grashoff was there, but there has been much talk of its importance, of the existing lines we have at our disposal and of the improvement that is possible within the existing structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u66	The Minister continues to repeat her explanation of how we should see European defence cooperation. Only, in the implementation plan that is now before us, it goes far beyond a little bottom-up working together. Does the Minister not agree with D66 that it is also the duty of the Minister to be absolutely clear about this, so that all Dutch people understand what direction we are heading in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u67	I don't really understand what Mrs Belhaj is saying right now. The practice is extremely unwieldy. It's certainly not self-evident. There are countries where you think they want to take the lead when it comes to European cooperation, whereas when it comes down to it, certain national interests, such as industrial ones, are absolutely dominant. It is an extremely difficult process. It is not for nothing that I have often spoken to the Chamber about this and also expressed my frustrations. But seriously thinking that the implementation plan will solve everything... that's Lalaland. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u68	It wasn't my suggestion that that would solve everything. I would like to say that that plan makes far-reaching comments on what it looks like. This is not just about joint procurement of equipment and not just about joint training. It is also about, for example, carrying out joint missions. Others speak of 'a European army', perhaps a little easy, but it is actually about building a European army. Why doesn't the Minister dare say that? And why, that is my second question, is she not going to stand side by side with, for example, the Minister of Defence of Germany or with that brilliant guy from the ALDE Group, Guy Verhofstadt, who made a wonderful plea for that? Why does the Minister remain so cautious?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u69	Maybe Mrs Belhaj can tell me outside this meeting where all this is. Extensive cooperation in the context of missions is the order of the day. We don't run a mission in our uppie. We do this in the NATO context, either at European level or in a coalition of the willing, for example. So there is far-reaching cooperation, even though we do not even have an army of coalition of the willing, a NATO army or a European army. That's bullshit. Ursula von der Leyen, my German colleague, and I are very close. We hang out together. It's not for nothing that we're gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u71	No, Mr. Chairman. That's what I'm attached to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u72	Yeah, but short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u73	... recognised at the point of integration of the units. That has been groundbreaking, both within NATO and within Europe. Guy Verhofstadt; I like him, he's a golden man. But he really lives occasionally in LalaLand and certainly at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u74	Important detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u75	Those last words from the minister were good words. I would like to try to get it even more precise, because the party of the Minister, the VVD, is in the European Parliament together with Guy Verhofstadt and others in the ALDE group. Mr Verhofstadt said on bilateral defence cooperation, which the Minister strongly advocates, that they should be covered by an EU command in the future. Does the Minister withdraw from that appointment, from that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u76	I do not know exactly what Mr Guy Verhofstadt meant. If he is referring to the fact that we already have operational headquarters and they naturally play a role in them, that seems to me to be perfectly clear. He may say that there will be only one Commander of the Armed Forces for the whole of the European Union, but that will simply not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u77	Does the Minister mean to say that bilateral cooperation could indeed fall within the scope of an EU authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u78	No, I'm talking about missions. I think there's a lot going on right now. One. You can talk about, for example, the integration of units. Two. You can talk about joint acquisition of capacities, for example. Three. You're talking about carrying out missions together. It goes without saying that on missions you have a different structure, including in the control from the operational headquarters, than in simply integrating units. That is, of course, just between two armed forces, in this case for example, the armored division and the mechanized brigade of Germany and the Netherlands. I know Mr De Roon is critical, but in this case I would really like to reassure him. We must join forces, but there is no such thing as a European army. I simply do not recognise Mr Verhofstadt's words in this respect. They're not in line with reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u80	I will stay with Mr De Roon for a moment, because he referred during the AO on 8 November to the statements by the German Finance Minister, Schäuble, on a joint EU defence budget. I just wanted to come back to that. Mr Schäuble seems to have referred to the pooling of available resources. He made his statements at a meeting of a think tank in Berlin. The Financial Times then published it on 18 October. Mr De Roon rightly pointed out in the article "Schäuble" that this requires complete synchronisation of defence planning cycles and budgets. At the same time, he didn't estimate the chances of success of this. Let me say this to Mr De Roon: there can of course be thought about a way to organise yourself more effectively. For example, if you want to acquire capacity together, you have to have some kind of joint planning. Because if I need a new transport plane tomorrow and my intended partners won't be working together for another ten years. In the meantime, we will have to go back to the purchase of such a transport plane. This proposal is of very high theoretical content. It was also not formally presented by Germany and not discussed during the discussions on the Global Strategy or the implementation plan. But of course there is nothing wrong with sharing some things with each other during a meeting of a think tank. Mr Voordewind, Mrs Günal-Gezer and Mrs Eijsink spoke about the impact of missions on employability. I think there was a motion on this last year. Since then, in Article 100 letters, we have been getting better at expressing the consequences that a particular mission has on certain units, at least if you compare it to before. In short, the more one-sided the task package for a specific mission and the higher the burden on man and material, the greater the impact on the overall readiness of the unit concerned. Please note: commitment, both nationally and internationally, is of course the core business of the armed forces. You can be all ready and in order, and sit in the barracks all day. That's why our people aren't trained and trained. Of course, the scarcity of the unity to be deployed also affects. The more scarce the capacity, the greater the impact. Finally, the required composition of the unit to be deployed may affect other units. After all, if a broad composition is required, e.g. if a multi-unit contribution is necessary, this may for a longer period lead to shortcomings in the working paths of units. I am thinking here of the use of helicopters and the consequences for, for example, the preparation of air mobile units in the Netherlands. The effects of missions on deployment are therefore diverse. They also depend to a large extent on the nature and intensity of the mission and the burden of man and material in relation to the overall size of the capacity concerned. They are also very different per unit and armies. It is precisely on the basis of a motion by, I believe, Mrs Eijsink from last year that we thought we would follow up on this in the Article 100 letters. This is also taken into account in the progress reports. Any extension decision or decision on a new mission may be the subject of that assessment. This has also been seen by the Chamber in the most recent article 100 letter on MINUSMA. We really learned our lesson. If you're interested in employability, sooner or later, you're gonna run into big problems. Employability will therefore play a significant role now, but certainly in the future. At the same time, I would point out that it is our core business. Sitting in the barracks waiting for something that never comes isn't very challenging.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u81	I would like you to finish the issue of employability first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u82	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u83	Sitting alone in the barracks is perhaps cozy, but of course not the intention. We have talked about this before. Every time the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees hold debates of this kind and talk about Article 100 letters, the question arises as to how one brings together what employability is, what wear is, because it is necessary, etc., and has an effect on long-term employability. We have now seen this somewhat in two Article 100 letters. I say "somehow" because it is very important. Article 100 letters are discussed by the Permanent Committee for Foreign Affairs. Some colleagues are double-headed, but others know much less about this. It is therefore very important to put this even better in the Article 100 letters, because this is about the commitment and the inclusion of the long-term effect. The 'can do' mentality now falls a little between the shore and the ship of those two committees. Will the Minister respond to that? That motion has been tabled, but I have a slightly sharper motion in front of me, because it could be even better expressed in the reports with the long-term effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u84	If I understand Mrs Eijsink correctly, she says that a start has been made, but that it should all be better and sharper, and much more reflective in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u85	It can be short: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u86	You can do it. I knew it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u87	I took note of that message and understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u88	The Minister cites the extension of the MINUSMA mission as an example. On 22 December, we will discuss with a number of ministers, including this Minister, whether this should be done or not. We have been promised a week before that we will receive a letter from the government explaining whether or not the protection of the MINUSMA mission by German helicopters is complete. If the Minister writes in that letter that it's not finished, will she pull the plug on the MINUSMA mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u89	I'm not gonna speculate at all, and I'm not gonna go into situations like that. I think that in the Article 100 letter I have not put it in front of me now, and I have made it quite clear that a number of things are a precondition for the intervention of our military. There can be no misunderstanding about that. We're gonna have that debate with each other. The reassurance I am now giving is that we will only act if the framework conditions have been fulfilled. You don't think a Secretary of Defense or a Commander of the Armed Forces is taking unnecessary risks, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u90	I think it's a bit cumbersome. The minister says she's not gonna speculate. I'm not asking her to. However, if I ask whether the plug will be pulled if the conditions are not met, I think the Minister is saying yes. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u91	That would be a bit of a turnaround. Pulling the plug is something else than not letting the military perform at that time. We have more tasks to perform, for example within ASIFU (All Sources Information Fusion Unit). So you're making it too big, so I might give you a more complex answer. I can tell you one thing: our military will only act if the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr De Roon, let me finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u93	Can I come to the conclusion that the detachment in Gao will simply be brought back if those helicopters aren't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr De Roon is really running out of time. I repeat what I said: the framework conditions for action must be fulfilled. We'll let the Chamber know exactly what that picture looks like. I have a number of points to make in connection with the WHOs last week. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. I will begin with the publication of the SP on hazardous substances. Mr Van Dijk offered me a publication last week. The stories of the people who speak in the report, of course, touch you. They're also known. These are very involved employees who have worked for the Defense Department for a long time. I take the questions that live with these people seriously, of course, just like Mr Van Dijk. That is why we are now tackling dangerous substances so thoroughly. So I'm not talking about decades ago. It is also sometimes complicated, as Mr Van Dijk knows, to judge as quickly with the knowledge and glasses of today's circumstances from so many years ago. After reading the report I have no reason to doubt the care with which RIVM conducted the research on PX-10. Nor does the report mention any new facts and circumstances which may require me to review the outcome of the investigation or to reopen the investigation. I've said that before. I still see no reason to re-execute the investigation. While I'm saying this, I think Mr Van Dijk is probably thinking "cold witch" right now. However, it is RIVM, an independent institute with a very good reputation. I have to sail on those who know and that is really the RIVM. As you know, research into chromium-6 and the situation at the POMS sites (Prepositioned Organizational Material Storage) is still ongoing. I think I have already said something about it in the written answers. This study will, among other things, answer questions about the circumstances in which the work took place in the past, what was known at that time about chromium-6, what measures were in place, and whether, and to what extent, employees are unnecessarily exposed to risks. All employees and former employees who believe that they have come into contact with chromium-6 and who may have become ill from it have been able to respond to their questions. These questions have been taken into account in the design and implementation of the research. I have said before that a thorough, careful and independent investigation takes time and that I have also set up a coulance regime because of the time required for this investigation. I've arranged for RIVM to direct the investigation to the Joint Committee. You have often been informed about this too. This is done under the leadership of an independent chairman, precisely because, for example, Mr Van Dijk appreciates it. In addition, the employees, employers and independent specialists presented by employees and employers are members of the Joint Committee. Mr President, this was the issue of SP publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u95	Has the Minister learned this morning that a lawyer is going to sue the Dutch State on behalf of 3,000 former employees, and that thanks to a WOB request he has learned that 1,200 former employees have complaints about chromium? Does the Minister recognize that the need is high among these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u96	I didn't start an investigation for nothing. I want to do it carefully. I also attach great importance to the independence of the investigation. I haven't decided on a coulance arrangement for nothing. So it seems obvious to me that I share the sense of urgency that this needs to be clarified, with Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u97	But we also found last week that the Minister's investigation is only coming after the summer of next year. So it is even a question of whether this minister is still here. I think that's why this lawyer went to court with these people right now. Can the Minister indicate if she can speed things up? What influence can this lawsuit have on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u98	I don't know what impact this lawsuit is gonna have on that. I just haven't had time to get into that. I know, of course, that the chairman of the Joint Committee, who is independent, is also keen to see a speedy process. I will also let that sound sound sound at regular intervals because it also sounds in the Chamber. The investigation is not carried out by the Minister. The Minister has commissioned this investigation, precisely in order to keep distance and to emphasise its independent nature. I know that Mr Van Dijk attaches great importance to this. It has to be done carefully. RIVM is not just an institution. We'll take as many questions and requests as we can. In short, I would like to repeat Mr Van Dijk's request for speed, but it must all be possible, even within the framework of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u99	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u100	I would just like to comment briefly on the evaluation of the control model, which Mr Knops asked a question about last week. I just didn't have it sharp anymore. I found out later that this wasn't so weird either. At the beginning of this year, the Chamber received the report from the Van Ede Committee, which examined the extent to which the recommendations of the earlier De Veer Committee had been implemented. For example, the position of the HDP, the Head of Personnel, has been strengthened. There has been a great deal of confusion about the evaluation and reports of both committees and so on, but there has indeed been talk of an evaluation of the control model. It has been quiet for a while, but it is with the arrival of the new sg, which has been there for a while now, picked up again. I thought it was important to include his concerns in this and they are also taken into account. The trajectory's running. I will inform the Chamber before March 2017 about the results of that evaluation. Mr De Roon asked a question about specialist artillery knowledge at the Fire Support Command. He asked if knowledge and experience would be lost. The preservation of knowledge is guaranteed within the command, but remains dependent on it, where Mr De Roon has a point of good interpretation and frequent training and training of staff and units. At the moment, as we speak, there is indeed understaffing. In the meantime, the Land Force Command has taken additional measures to restore the occupation of the command to the required level. Before 2017, the focus is more on training the own artillery units in all threat scenarios. I say nothing new when I say that since the end of the Cold War there has been less attention to a large-scale complex conflict. Mr De Roon has drawn my attention to this and it is now being taken up. Mrs Eijsink asked for attention to a letter from a DBBO employee from the security staff of the army. That letter is now known to me as well. He and three others have also recently addressed Mr Bitch. In replying to the written questions and last week at the WHO, I also addressed this issue. The fact is that the letter writer feels disadvantaged, because he assumes that the employees of the DBBO who come from the security staff of the army would not be subject to an old-age scheme and that there would be another scheme for those who come from, among others, the Marine Surveillance Corps. I ran it again. Please note that the agreement on terms of employment abolishing the functional retirement age for citizens does indeed provide for an arrangement for the army staff. The functions covered by this scheme are listed in 171a of the BARD. The letter writer and colleagues cannot claim this arrangement because they held a post not mentioned in Article 171a of the BARD at the time. That was known at the time and it is now known. So I think it is quite a good idea to turn an appointment that was made at the time and that was clear to everyone ten years later. That would really be contrary to legal certainty. I will answer the letter writer myself to clarify this once and for all, otherwise we will continue to discuss these people's minds through the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u101	The committee has received this group, so it goes a little further. There has been a special procedure at Mr Teeven's request. It was very good to have talked to them. I understand very well what the Minister is saying, but these people do not understand if we referred back to 2006. They are not people who read the BARD articles to which they refer every day. I understand the Minister's statement that something that was decided in 2006 cannot now be changed. Can I ask her to look at how things were communicated internally at the time? I do not know how the unions did this, because it concerns working conditions. The Chamber isn't about that anymore. The story was so sad, as we, as colleagues, felt together, that we spoke with this large group at the initiative of Mr Teeven. I ask the Minister to go a little further than explaining it directly. We must ensure that this does not happen again, although, unfortunately, it is no use to these people. These are sad stories of miscommunication and misunderstood. These people aren't in the workplace reading the BARD articles every day, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u102	First of all, I'm going to write a letter myself. Secondly, we are looking at what was communicated at the time. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr Teeven, there is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u104	Yes, Mr President, but it is on this subject. I have requested the special procedure myself, so I would like to say a few words about it. I urge the Minister, apart from communicating properly what she has promised to Mr Eijsink, to look at this again for those few people. A huge distinction is made between people who have different functions, but at some point eventually do the same work in the field of surveillance. They're really treated differently, as far as I can tell. Isn't there a coulance arrangement for this now? I ask this also given the age of these people and given the communication with these people. The minister's running it now, but I can tell her it went badly. That is actually what I would like to ask on behalf of the VVD Group. We don't ask that much, but we'll ask this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u105	I'll dive in and talk to the letterwriter. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr Knops appears at the interrupting microphone, but I'm not looking at him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u107	May I continue? I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with what I started, so perhaps Mr Knops would like...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u108	It can't wait until the second term, Mr. Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u109	It is good practice for the Minister to answer some of the questions in writing. It seems to me that, in this period, we can ask for further information, so that we do not have to come back to it in the second period. That was actually my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u111	I agree entirely with Mr Teeven, by the way. Let's see what's possible. This, too, is another example of something for which the Minister was not responsible when it arose, but with which it is being stuck. It wasn't pretty. I have a question following the Minister's introduction. In it, she described very nicely how this safety or insecurity has penetrated Dutch society and in particular the feeling of insecurity. Yesterday we heard a message from the President of the Marechaussee Association. It says: we fill holes with holes and I'm afraid they're going to be that than the returned jihadists can't pick out all of them. The answer to the questions indicates that there will be more money for the police, but I still have the question as to whether that is sufficient to cover the concerns expressed here. In other words, is the Marechaussee capable of apprehending any recurring jihadist?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u112	The Marechaussee association is part of the FNV. I thought it was a spicy statement, because we really need to be careful to stir up the feelings of insecurity. The Royal Marechaussee is working, I think I have also expressed this in the written answer really quite precisely and one also knows very well what one is doing. It's a fact that there's been a bunch of bumps created by a lot of things. That is also why we have already decided to step up our efforts and the Minister for Security and Justice will soon let you know exactly how part of this intensification will be used. It is a fact that we must keep a close eye on what a high migratory pressure, the terrorist threat and all kinds of other measures mean for the further development of the Royal Marechaussee. In my case, this will also be part of the multiannual perspective. But not everything's on the defense. There are also tasks funded by the Ministry of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u113	In fact, therefore, the Minister is saying that the portee of my question is that the story in the newspaper about risks regarding the taking up of recurring jihadists is not on the agenda. There are problems, but we're gonna take care of it. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u114	We keep a close eye on developments. We are doing everything we can to ensure that the Prime Minister has often said it in debates with the Chamber to ensure that those who return or leave and any individual who is about to undermine our society are taken to trial in good time. There are no guarantees, but everything is being done. The cabinet therefore has a real feeling that it is following developments closely and is stepping up where possible to ensure that the work that needs to be done is done. We have shown this before, also in the wake of the attacks in Paris. Even then there was extra money for the Royal Marechaussee. We have shown it in the context of the excessive migratory pressure. I am convinced that in the future additional money will certainly have to go back to the Royal Marechaussee, if only because passenger numbers are rising so enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u115	Mr. Voordewind? Mr. Knops, again? That'll be the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u116	I had two dots. As President, I would remind you that we still have a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u117	That's not the point. I am concerned about the quality of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u118	I will try to contribute to that with my questions. I have a question about the answer to the question about the Turks who are considering purchasing Russian air defence systems. We have talked about this before when it was said that Turkey wanted to purchase Chinese missile defence systems. The Minister says that it has been made clear that it is actually not a problem if it is standalone capacity. Does the Minister not agree with me that, in the case of such important matters and in this era, it is very strange that a NATO ally is going to buy Russian systems that may still be plugged into the NATO network? I ask that, because there is more and more within NATO, we have just talked about it and there are more and more systems being connected together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u119	I personally consider it very undesirable. Period!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u120	Then we agree. Is the Minister prepared to address the Turks in the NATO Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u121	We will and we will continue to do so. Period!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u122	Mr President, I have the impression that we are already working on a farmland. That is why I come now with a number of points which I would like to see clarified by the Minister. In response to questions from me about the Royal Marechaussee, the Minister has indicated that she is already doing something about it to strengthen the Marechaussee. I have only a few things to say to her by the President of the Marechaussee Association. I'm gonna put my glasses on, or else I can't read it. The President said: we are simply far too few people to cope with the increase in the number of returning jihadists. According to him, calculations by the Ministry of Defense indicate that about 500 additional military forces are needed. The expertise and experience of the next Marechaussees is too small, so they do not have a keen eye to recognize deviant behaviour of travellers. People are walking on their gums and there is a great deal of despondency, according to the chairman. Can the Minister respond to that? Why doesn't the DOD make a firmer commitment to improving the capacity and size of the Royal Marechaussee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u123	I think I have just given Mr Knops an answer to the same question. You will soon receive a letter from the Minister of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u124	I ask the Minister to respond to those remarks made by that chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u125	I just did!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u126	But you're referring to a letter we're about to receive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u127	No, I have just given a rather comprehensive answer to the same question from Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u128	That is what I mean by the quality of the debate. We really shouldn't repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u129	Then I will move on to the next point on which I have a question, the advice of the Defence Security Authority not to let soldiers walk down the street in uniform. That's an advice. The Minister is turning that into an order to the military. Why can't she just give advice to the military? Let them choose for themselves. I have not yet had an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u130	I also think that this is a complicated subject. It all seems very straightforward, but it just isn't. I have often had an exchange of views with you on this subject. I am proud of our military in uniform and would like nothing more than for everyone to just go down the street in uniform, be in public transport, take the bus and so on. It may be seen, mind you! But if the Security Authority states in its opinion that it runs unnecessary risks, then who am I to put that advice aside? I am not going to see anything go wrong under my political responsibility because I only passed on or put aside half the advice of the Security Authority. On the basis of the latest threat picture, we always consider whether an adjustment is possible. If that is the case, we will proceed and you will of course be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u131	I have one last point. We have a very short answer about placing long-range cruise missiles on the new frigates. In that I do not see an answer to my question as to what it would cost. Is it possible to give that answer in a letter now or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u132	I'm just trying to figure that out for the second term, because I don't have the costs right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mr Voordewind, did you leave a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u134	Yes. It has been answered in writing, but I do have a question about it. My question was about the home front check. The Minister has had the Dutch Defence Academy investigate this. This has led to a number of recommendations. In the answer I read that there are now a number of experiments in progress. The Minister refers to the evaluation of veteran policy and its reporting, but what is she going to do in concrete terms to achieve the three, four recommendations in the report, which have been there for some time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u135	We're gonna get to work on that. The Court has a better idea of this in the context of the evaluation of veteran policy. I very much recognise Mr Voordewind's concern about the home front. That is a legitimate concern, because the same home front is being called upon to do so. I have said many times: without home front no stakes. Let me come back to this in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u136	Then we will see exactly what is being done to implement these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mr Van Dijk, is there a question that has remained?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u138	I'm gonna interrupt for the second time in the defense budget review. I want to talk about the whistleblower. This is the subject of question 13 of the written reply. That whistleblower from Eindhoven has been treated in an outrageous manner. A visit to a doctor has been made up in which he would have reported mental illness. That's fake writing. Last week, in the debate, the Minister said that the doctor who did so did nothing wrong. She bases herself on a report from the Military Health Inspectorate, but there is that story in that that is not true. Is the Minister prepared to acknowledge that this doctor has shown serious behavior? And is it prepared to submit the report of the Military Health Inspectorate on which it bases itself to the Chamber? She says she can only do that after the patient's consent. That's something like that. He's not a patient, he's a soldier. The patient has just been on Twitter...Excus, the military has just given permission to do so on Twitter. I'd like to get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u139	I'm not much of a politician on Twitter. This does not entirely reflect the seriousness of the subject we are discussing. The written reply states: "The Integrity OIO Research Council stated, as was also stated in the investigation carried out by the IMG, that in the present case there was a careless write-off under an incorrect code in the complainant's medical file by the first subject doctor." There's always the danger of you pulling things out, but I do understand where this came from. When you talk about a patient, you don't put someone away as a patient. That's just the relationship between the person involved and a doctor. It is now given a negative connotation, but that was by no means the intention. I'll see if I can send the Chamber the report confidentially. I just need to figure out what the rules are for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u140	The scandalous thing about this incident is that this doctor invented that the whistleblower had gone to him with psychological complaints after reporting abuses at Eindhoven Air Base. This is really outrageous. A fictional doctor's visit was made up to put the whistleblower in an evil light. That is not to write away carelessly, as is said very euphemistically. That's just fraud, forgery in writing. It would adorn the minister if she admitted it. It's too crazy for words that the doctor has also been promoted to colonel. Indeed, I would very much like to receive the report from the Military Health Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u141	I think it would be good if we all based on the texts of the OIO. Anyway, I'll see if I can send that report to the Chamber in confidence or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u142	Okay. You were in the middle of a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u143	Yes, but I think Mrs Eijsink had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u144	If you so invite everyone to respond to you... There is also a second term. I'll keep an eye on that. This really is the last interruption, Mrs Eijsink.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I do not think that the Minister has answered any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u146	Then it is perfectly legitimate for you to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u147	It concerns the concept reversal list version 2016. I asked questions about it yesterday. These are 22 measures, for example the rejection of the Patriots and the reduction of the number of reservists from 5,000 to 3.000. I asked the Minister to reflect on that. We're talking about being a reliable partner, et cetera. I assume this will be incorporated into all scenarios. Reverting what you have done in cooperation is, of course, absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mrs. Eijsink and I will be able to find each other soon. I believe that I have responded to this in writing, but perhaps not fully. I really see this as a purely technical exercise, in which the desirability or feasibility of proposals has not been considered at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u149	I've been through a few technical exercises in the few years I've been in the Chamber. Those technical exercises have caused quite a bit in a negative sense. I have learned by now that technical exercises can have incredibly adverse consequences. I would therefore like to give the Minister a message, but I do not need to do so because I do not see them as technical. My second question concerns the special position of the military. In reply 25, the Minister explained the process again. I appreciate that again. However, it is not clear to me what we are really going to do, because it is a repeat of the answers given in February 2015. Repetition is fine, but what else? After all, we have now seen twice, in the case of the Law on the standardization of wages and in the case of the so-called AOW-hole military, that there is a need for reinforcement. I can't just read that out of this answer. Is it a suggestion to include it in the explanatory memorandum so that it becomes clear everywhere? It falls between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u150	I just got the answer. I have also noted that there has been sufficient awareness of this in the defence sector, but that this has not always been the case in the past. We are now faced with the consequences of this. I believe the RVU was introduced in 2005. It is then acidic if you are confronted with this in 2016 in all its intensity. The consciousness is now deeply rooted, at least in my ministry. I do agree with Mrs Eijsink that it would be good to take it with me in a more broad sense. You cannot, of course, go into it separately for every profession or group of people in society in the explanatory memorandum. However, in the case of the special position of the military, it is important that all aspects of the introduction of new legislation and regulations have been identified, including their effects. Of course, the defence industry has a role to play in this. It's not like everyone has to work for us. First of all, we have a role to play. We will have to do so hand in hand with other departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u151	I also had questions on this point, a little more specific. There is a fine of 52% in the Pays Tax Act. My question to the Minister was whether she would like to include it in the consideration of the special position of the military. That is the first question that has not yet been answered. The second was my question to reflect again on what Mr Timmermans has said about the investigations, which he may or may not have referred to. What is the Minister's response to that? Does that contribute to the overall picture of peace and security in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u152	I will honestly admit that I did not answer those two questions on purpose. First of all, the 52% levy in the RVU. We have had a number of debates on this subject, and we have done so. The Chamber has also received a reply from the Minister of SZW, in particular as regards the question of why no exception is made possible. If there had been any reason or possibility to do so, we should have done so in 2005. After all, the consequences are far-reaching. I repeat that I am pleased that yesterday the PvdA and the VVD tabled an amendment that will ease the situation. Now Mr Houwers still has the answer. Then the question about Frans Timmermans. I really didn't get a chance to call him personally about this. I do not know exactly what was said and what it is based on. I have no need to comment on the statements made by a colleague in public if I do not yet know where they all come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u153	This means that the Minister does not have any information that resembles what Mr Timmermans seems to be basing himself on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u154	This means that I have not yet spoken to Mr Timmermans on this point and that I attach great importance to personal contact before making this kind of statement. Then all the way to the end. I started by saying, in slightly different terms, that there is a lot at stake. These are achievements that have been fought hard, which have really brought us a lot. We all agree. I am pleased that Mr Knops shares with me the view that, if we want to continue to protect what is dear to us, we will also have to invest in our armed forces in the years to come. That is an investment which, as far as I am concerned, is worth every penny for another reason. When it comes to it, it is our soldiers who are always ready to make their contribution. It is they who defend our country. Their professionalism and dedication are highly regarded internationally and their willingness to go to extremes also brings with them a responsibility. I am sure that this vision is also shared by Mr Knops and others. It brings with it the responsibility to equip our soldiers well with their duties. As I said, we have come a long way, we are absolutely on the right track, but we still have to take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u155	I do not think I have received an explicit answer to one very explicit question that I asked in the first period. That was the question of whether the Minister agreed with her German colleague, who said in relation to the recent defence agreements: the EU Member States show their political will to extend the EU to a European defence union. Does the Minister agree or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u156	The EU Member States show their political will for further European defence cooperation. The European Defence Union is really explained differently in Germany. Notice the differences in the debates. But, of course, I have just said that further cooperation can only take shape if there is real political will, so no more talking for a few years. In any case, Ursula von der Leyen and myself are talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u157	The term 'European Defence Union' is clearly mentioned. That term has a very clear connotation. I just want to hear from the Minister if she shares that view. Yes or no? That's all it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u158	No. I have just indicated that I do not need all kinds of federal symbols, but that I do need action and cooperation in practice. I don't need a grand military headquarters with new flags. I do not need terminology as "European Defence Union." And do you know why? Not because I am opposed to further European cooperation, I think I have just explained in various ways what I am very much in favour of it and how much we are ahead of it, but because such a term distracts a number of Member States from doing what we need to do to achieve that cooperation. So this is all symbolic politics. I do not like words like "defension union." I attach great importance to close cooperation. We'll fill that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. Three minutes to summarize the Minister's policy. I think the Secretary of State's story on defence policy is rather thin. DOD beeps and cracks. The armed forces are overloaded. Then you can do two things. Or you're gonna invest a lot more, like Mr. Bontes does. Or you reduce the number of tasks, as the SP does. The Minister doesn't do either. As a result, I conclude: that is padding and keeping wet. I asked a question about Mr Trump. Then the Minister began to tell us all about Mr Putin. My question was: does she consider it possible that Trump's appointment could lead to relaxation between America and Russia? I'm very concerned about the mission in Mali. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the mission's mandate in Mali (MINUSMA) is controversial because the impartiality of the UN military is under discussion;]] [[noting that the Dutch military are calling for the mission to cease because they are "working far below their level";]] [[considers that it is unclear what added value the Netherlands has for MINUSMA;]] [[requests the Government to terminate the Dutch contribution to MINUSMA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u160	I also have concerns about aftercare for veterans. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas veterans are entitled to excellent aftercare;]] [[noting that veterans often get into trouble after their careers, for example because of loneliness, homelessness, illness or drug use;]] [[Considering that Defense must do everything in its power to prevent veterans from getting out of sight or "become forgotten";]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the course of life of veterans after their departure from Defense, in order to prevent them from becoming forgotten,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u161	When it comes to whistleblowers, which I have just interrupted, I hope that the Minister will send the report of the Military Health Inspectorate, on which she has based her statements, to the Chamber as soon as possible, as she suggested. That would be very nice. I would like to put my motion to the vote. He's asking for an independent investigation into these cases. It's about the motion in part No. 17 (34550-X). Finally, I would like to make a personal statement about an insinuation by Mr Öztürk yesterday that the SP would have relations with terrorist organisations. Let us be very clear: we reject all forms of terrorism and keep us far from relations with terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I believe that this Minister has expressed her answers as carefully today as her policy over the last four years. It's daring, it's innovative, it's transparent, and it's flexible. Those are exactly the qualities that soldiers need. That's why it's connected so well over the past four years. I believe that cooperation between the department, between the military summit and the military and this minister has worked well. People had doubts about this four years ago when Rutte II took office, but the Minister removed all these doubts as far as the VVD Group was concerned. That's definitely worth a big compliment. The VVD Group looks forward to the growth of the defence budget. We believe that it would be wise to make the defence budget grow strongly in the coming years. That should be started in 2018 and then continue in the coming government periods thereafter. We're not filing any motions. The Minister responded to the security staff. That's not a little thing for us, because it's about people. But it has turned out to be a small thing in the organization of the department. I really call on the Minister not only to look at communication, but to arrange it. Otherwise, the VVD Group and this minister will have to deal in an AO just before the election recess with an issue that should not really be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and visionary images she shared with the Chamber, which I have already said I can broadly share. She referred again to the fact that I said I was sorry. I am not going to repeat that, but then I mentioned a whole line of people who did so in relation to the same subject, namely that there has been too much cuts in defence. These included Prime Minister Rutte, Mr Teven and myself. Is it now so difficult for the Minister to recognise that this has not been good in the past few years in the cabinets in which she was or of which her group was a member? I think that would please this minister. Then perhaps I'll come back tomorrow with Mr. Bitches to bring you a flower. Last week, the Minister in the WHO said in one sentence: I will have to take 85 million extra measures to bring the balance sheet in 2017. At the same time, she also said that I have enough resources to do what I have to do. Earlier, the Minister indicated that she needed an extra billion. I challenged her in the first term to tell the real story. In my view, the real story is that it needs extra money and that all the measures that have now been taken are absolutely necessary to bring the balance into the too tight budget. But I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. The fact is, therefore, that the Minister has taken up a number of issues, which she has also indicated. I think she picked up more than she expected she should. However, the result is that the pace that the Minister himself probably envisaged, for which she signed in Wales in 2014, is lower than hoped and expected. That's what I feel in everything the Secretary of State exudes. It is good to recognise that and, above all, to see what needs to be done in the future. I say this because, in particular, that percentage of gross national product in 2021, which is two years before the end of the Wales Frameworks, is lower than it is today. That was not the intention of what was agreed there. A lot of things have been done, but there's a lot more to do. I thank the Minister for her commitment and dedication over the last four years. She literally stood in front of the troops. But again: for a very high figure, but the results are just a little less. I have a motion to support the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in spring the results of the CBS study on the possibility of a defence-specific index will become known;]] [[Whereas the incomplete compensation of Defence for higher price increases in equipment and ammunition further undermines the purchasing power of Defence every year;]] [[Whereas delay in decision-making on a defence index is irresponsible in the light of the recovery of the armed forces and the deteriorating security situation;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the CBS investigation, to provide a Dutch defence index and to provide for full price compensation for Defence in the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Bitches. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for responding with passion, commitment and commitment, as she has shown all these years. This has worked excellently and mutually stimulatingly towards the Chamber. As has already been said, the special position of military personnel is of great concern to us all. The Wul and the AOW have ignored that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the special position of the military, the consequences of legislation and regulations on the personnel of the armed forces are not given sufficient attention;]] [[Whereas the special position of the military entails not only rights but also duties for the military who do not apply to workers in general, and whereas the special position of the military therefore requires a special responsibility of the government;]] [[calls on the Government, in laws and regulations relating to employees, in particular labour-conditional and financial laws and regulations, to include in the explanatory memorandum the implications for military personnel and, if necessary, to clarify these consequences;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Eijsink, Mr Günal-Gezer, Mr Teven, Mr Knops, Mr De Roon, Mr Voordewind, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Belhaj, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Grashoff and Mr Houwers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u165	I come to our people, the civilian soldiers who are working for us. Today's military is tomorrow's veteran. We look with some pride, and together, at the many veterans who have wanted and should have been of great importance in recent years, and who have also had to do late work. I have another question for the Minister about the Veterans' Office. Can anyone who comes forward today be helped as well? Is capacity sufficient compared to demand? And are there sufficient financial resources? My information is different. In short: can anyone who reports be helped, without getting on a waiting list? That was never the intention of the Veterans' Office, and that can never be the intention. The intention was "one man's one plan, one woman's one plan" and to offer the necessary aftercare. I'm rounding up. The Minister has, quite rightly, appointed the six lines of development for the future. I've already taken back the fact that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u166	I do not know what this is supposed to be, but this does not belong in the Chamber. I am very sorry, but this must now be removed from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u167	Mrs. Eijsink, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr President, please give me the opportunity to come back to order after this form of interruption. The Minister has appointed the six steps of development for the future. She also explained the price tags attached to them. That is quite right. It is not for nothing that I referred to the possible conditions that Finance had already drawn up for the coalition. I have been able to experience all these technical developments over the past 14 years and I am very confident that this Minister will look at them carefully. I'm rounding up. This was my 14th budget review. Over the last few years, I have been very happy to deal with the defence budget on behalf of the Labour Party. I wish this minister and all those involved, all good and a good, healthy military force, with all the facets necessary for this, for the men and women who have been allowed to do the great work of our armed forces in the name of politics, because we have been allowed to do the mandate. They deserve this, as we have seen together in recent years, both in terms of the special position of the military and in terms of the joint Veterans Act. Since 1956 it has not happened that the Chamber in 2011... I think we can be proud that we stand together for our people. There's still room for improvement, but I've been able to do it with great honor and pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u169	Thank you. I tend to say something in return, but I'll do it with your farewell. I'm not gonna say goodbye to you for a while. I give the floor to Mrs Günal-Gezer, who speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for her answers, but above all for her openness, her determination and her commitment to transparency. This has enabled us to overcome many bottlenecks in the past period and to start looking for solutions to them. In that respect, the armed forces have carefully found their way upstairs. But as the Minister also stressed in her term, we are absolutely not there yet. There are still plenty of challenges, such as the lack of investment budget. It is good to hear that the Minister shares our concerns that if we continue in this way, at some point it is going to cramp and an investment impulse is needed. As far as I am concerned, this is a clear task for the coming period. With regard to making the implications for long-term employability of participation in military missions clear and explicit, it is good to conclude that the Minister has heard well the wishes and expectations of the Chamber in this regard. We are confident that it will do its best to accommodate the Chamber. It is also a good thing to hear from the Minister that she attaches great importance to technological developments and innovation and within it cooperation with the golden triangle. That's very valuable. This is an important subject for us and we will be following developments in this area with great interest. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his excellent cooperation and for all his efforts. Above all, I wish all the military, all the women and men, every success in their very important and valuable task, especially at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has assured us that there will be no European army, that there will be no European military headquarters and that there will be no European defence budget. That is an important gain from this debate. I thank the Minister for that. The Minister also said a few things about the concept of sovereignty. She has indicated that that is more than what is happening within our borders. But she presented a picture of things as if that were something new, but that is of course not the case. The defence of Dutch interests outside our borders has been for centuries. We've been doing that for centuries. It has something to do with our sovereignty, but the bottom line of sovereignty of the Netherlands is what happens within our borders. I hope the Minister doesn't want to alienate himself from that idea. On the issue of the uniform ban, the Minister said that she was following the advice of a special department within the department. The fact that she wants to follow that advice is, of course, her right, but I still do not understand why she wants to turn that advice into an order to the military. She could also say: I advise my military to follow the advice of that special committee I have on security matters. However, the Minister does not choose to do so. I regret that, because I think that you could take the military's own responsibility seriously on this point as well. As far as the Royal Marechaussee is concerned, I have been informed of the Minister's response to questions put by Mr Knops. I must say that I find all this very unsatisfactory and unclear. I'm very worried about that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Royal Marechaussee is heavily understaffed and has to slide with capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to stop using the Royal Marechaussee for the European Border and Coast Guard Agency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of cross-missiles placing on our frigates. I am referring, of course, to the long-range cruise missiles. In 2005, the Navy study indicated that the placement of such missiles on our frigates would significantly increase the impact force of our Navy and make a valuable contribution. That was the case in 2005, and that is all the more important given all the developments and the current political international uncertainty. Hence another motion and the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the precarious and unstable international security situation must be taken into account in the acquisition and/or replacement of naval vessels;]] [[Whereas the impact of the Royal Navy can be increased if cruise missiles are added to the arsenal;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of placing long-range cruise missiles on the new frigates to replace the current M-frigates and to inform the Chamber of operational benefits and financial consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr. Chairman. I am so glad that we can just say what we want in this Parliamentary House. So no Band-Aid on my mouth. As a result of the answer, especially the beginning of the Minister's plea, I can say that a number of questions have been answered well, but certainly not a number of questions for our opinion. That brings me back to the fact that sometimes you don't entirely agree. Right now, I'm not gonna thank the Minister. That's not because I don't think she should be thanked, but because I think it's part of this minister's portfolio that she should be able to stay fully active for the next seven or eight months, even during the negotiations that are still in progress. There is a great deal going on right now. We therefore hope that the Minister will not be completely exempted from a number of important issues that are still on the agenda. So I'm not going to say goodbye now, but I'm going to make a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for Defence to be sufficiently resilient in the digital domain;]] [[Whereas for sufficient cyber capacity and knowledge, it is important to appoint cyber-reservists;]] [[Considering that at present only 44 cyber-reservists have been appointed, while the target was in November 2013 to appoint 150 cyber-reservists;]] [[calls on the government to work on accelerating the recruitment of cyber-reservists and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the Spring 2017 note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u174	Then it's a smaller subject, but it's important to us anyway. I shall table this motion together with Mr Van Dijk of the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large group of generals and senior officials in the Defence Department are entitled to a service car with driver;]] [[noting that this costs about EUR 4 million a year;]] [[Calls on the Government to halve the expenditure on service cars and, accordingly, to limit the number of Defence staff who can use a service car with driver, and to inform the Chamber thereof in the spring 2017 note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u175	Then there's a motion on innovation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for a technologically advanced military force such as the government, it is necessary to innovate sufficiently;]] [[Whereas innovation is also good for the economy, provides jobs, leads to solutions to the big questions of our time and thereby brings the world forward;]] [[Considering that many innovations in the Defense Department also have spin-off to civil society;]] [[noting that the European Defence Agency Directive requires at least 2% of the Defence budget to be spent on innovation;]] [[noting that the Defence Innovation Budget is currently less than 1% of the Defence Budget;]] [[Calls on the Government to set up a growth path to increase the innovation budget in Defence to 2% of the Defence budget and inform the Chamber of that growth path in the spring paper 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u176	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important in the case of military deployment to communicate clearly and transparently the effects of such deployment, including civil collateral damage and civilian casualties;]] [[Whereas a clear responsibility for military deployment increases both the level of support in the home country and the level of support for people in countries where military deployment takes place;]] [[noting that research shows that the Netherlands provides a very brief justification for the effects of military deployment, civil collateral damage and civilian casualties;]] [[calls on the government to take over best practices from countries that are much more transparent in terms of military deployment, civilian collateral damage and civilian casualties;]] [[also invites the government, in the weekly reports on the Dutch military deployment, to better inform about where and when air attacks have been carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u177	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering my questions, both in writing and orally. I would also like to thank her for her pleasant cooperation in recent years. This is also on behalf of Mr Segers, who has done some of it before me. I would also like to thank the Minister for her honesty and openness in matters which are more difficult for the defence sector, such as shortcomings and so on. We appreciate that very much. In the 2017 budget and in the following years, the Minister says: we are not yet there. I hear others in the Chamber say the same thing. It is good to see what will happen after the elections, but also what will happen next year. We should not lose a year, even if I am very conscious of it, because this cabinet is adding extra money. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current quality of the deployment of the armed forces requires more resources to be allocated to the Defence budget than the cabinet currently intends;]] [[calls on the Government to devote part of the non-ODA funds that may be released to the Autumn Note to investments in the armed forces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u178	I'll be on the home front check. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment, also in writing, that it will be responded to in the evaluation of veteran policy, which we will have at the end of this year. This is partly due to the home front check motion submitted by the Labour Party and the Christian Union. So I'll wait and see. Finally, I am tabling another motion on mental care. In her written response, the Minister writes: when space comes, the necessary numbers of spiritual caregivers are also taken into account. As a small encouragement, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of mental caregivers within the armed forces has decreased as a result of overall cuts and reductions;]] [[Whereas, following an investigation commissioned by the Minister and the subsequent reorganisation, there is a new system for the distribution of spiritual caretakers among the armed forces, based on the starting point of spiritual caregivers per compartment;]] [[calls on the Minister to align the number of spiritual caregivers with the extension of the military force with new compartments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u179	I still express my gratitude and respect for all the military who are doing dangerous work on the front lines. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u180	Mr. Chairman. The course of this debate shows that 'the leap forward' in the field of European defence cooperation is only a very cautious step. I have the impression that the Minister would like to be a little heavier on this point, but that she simply should not be allowed to do so by her own party, which is now heavily infected by euroscepticism. We are not going to ask for a ruling from the Chamber on this. We are going to talk more than enough about it. I have one motion, about making datasets accessible. I've asked questions about that. I did not like the written reply enough. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet expressed the ambition to make as much public data as possible available as open data;]] [[Notes that in 2015 and 2016, unlike other ministries, the Ministry of Defence did not participate in the state-wide data inventory;]] [[having noted that the Defence Ministries of allies such as the United Kingdom and the US have made public many useful datasets;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out a data inventory at the Ministry of Defence to select and unlock non-confidential data and to send the result to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u181	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers and for her commitment. I am not going to say goodbye, because it has already been said that there are months to go. I would like to thank the Minister for her honesty. She literally said, "We're short." It's not good if you're in the army and you're short. My son sometimes invites me to participate in a simulation game. It's one of those Navy games where you have to take out the enemy. If you're short-handed, you'll have a problem. That's true in the army. I find it disappointing to note that there seems to be insufficient support in this Parliament for putting a point on the horizon, for really serious progress towards the NATO standard. I think this cabinet and this coalition are pushing it too far into a new cabinet. Hopefully it'll happen. So far, the financial possibilities have been crucial for what we do with Defence, but my point is that this is not possible when it comes to security. In order to do something about this, it is not enough, but everything is better than nothing in this case, I have tabled an amendment together with the CDA. I very much hope for a positive opinion from the Minister in a moment's time. I also co-signed Mr Voordewind's motion. I was pleased that the Minister skilfully destroyed my motion on a European army. Her texts were crystal clear: no European army, no European headquarters, cooperation is fine, but we in this Parliament continue to have control over the deployment of our military. That will always be and always will be the starting point for us, whatever discussion is taking place on cooperation or non-cooperation and in whatever contexts. Finally, I would like to thank the military for their efforts. I also wish them a safe and effective commitment for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u182	Mr Öztürk should actually speak now, but I do not see him in the Chamber. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bontes on behalf of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u183	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I've got a few motions ready, but I'm not filing two of them. The first was about a European army. The Minister has been very clear about this: there will be no such thing. We will keep a close eye on this, because knowing the EU, we can still be fooled in there. So we're gonna stay on top of that. The second motion was about extra budget for the Royal Marechaussee. The Minister has also been crystal clear about this. That is also what we are monitoring. We hope and expect that will actually happen. What remains above the market is the NATO 2% standard. The Minister remains extremely vague about this. She wants to, but then she goes on to set a European average. This is really not going to do us any good. We think it is very important that this standard is met. That's a deal we made with our allies in Wales. So that should not remain as vague as it is now. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in his campaign, the incoming US President made it clear that European under-achievers within NATO must comply with the commitment to spend at least 2% of GDP on defence;]] [[whereas the Netherlands must take this message very seriously and comply with the NATO standard as soon as possible;]] [[Considering that, despite the fact that this NATO agreement was reaffirmed by the Cabinet at the Wales Summit in 2014, the Defence Budget has not been sufficiently increased since;]] [[whereas the Defence budget, as a percentage of GDP, will only decline in the coming years;]] [[whereas security is the core task of the government, but the Dutch armed forces are currently extremely vulnerable, despite major global tensions;]] [[calls on the Government, even before the elections in March 2017, to send the Chamber a roadmap justifying the increase in the Defence budget to 2% of GDP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u184	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her clear answers. She was very clear about a European army: no is no. I suppose this is going to really apply here. That's what we're gonna see. I thank the Minister not only for her words, but also for her actions. Some people were talking about a report here. If the minister gets a report, I think she gets an "A" for behavior and enthusiasm, but not always an "A" for results. But that can still grow. Thank you also to the men and women of the Defense Department who do this work on a daily basis and take care of our security. The Minister has said that she will fix a number of things to ensure that they are appreciated in a good way and to further strengthen their special position. In order to give the Minister a little support in this respect, I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of Defence staff, both civilian and military, are currently facing an AOW-hole;]] [[Considering that the court has irrevocably ruled that the provision of AOW-gat constitutes an excessive breach of legitimate claims of the Defence Staff by over-lossing net revenue;]] [[Whereas military personnel have a special status under the Military Civil Service Act;]] [[Whereas civilian personnel also make an equally substantial contribution to the defence apparatus as military colleagues;]] [[Considering that there is no voluntary early retirement from the Defence Department;]] [[Considers that, because of the special position of the Defence personnel, the application of the 52% final charge to the employer under Article 32ba of the Wage Tax Act cannot be considered;]] [[calls on the Government, Article 32ba (8) of the Wage Tax Act, and to exempt the Ministry of Defence as an employer from the tax penalty rate of 52% under ministerial rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u185	I have another question about that support, regardless of the content of the motion. Yesterday, a number of motions were tabled in the context of a VAO on this subject. I therefore ask Mr Houwers, because of the procedure, why he is now tabling this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u186	Mr Knops was present at that VAO. I didn't have enough time to file two motions at the time. I could not table the second motion; I was forbidden to do so by the chairman. That's why I chose this moment, because I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u187	It's okay. In the meantime, Mr Öztürk is in the Chamber. He's getting the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u188	Mr. Chairman. I watched the live broadcast of Wilders' punishment, and that's why I'm a little late. I only have one minute left. I would once again like to thank the defence staff for their commitment to the defence of our country. I am tabling a motion to call into question the NATO standard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only a few treaty countries comply with the NATO minimum defence expenditure of 2% of GDP;]] [[calls on the Government to act as a precursor at NATO level to review the 2% standard and to advocate a new standard including expenditure on conflict prevention, such as development aid, diplomacy and reconstruction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u189	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes, so until 1:45 p.m. We will then begin with the rules of procedure, then we will vote on the tax package and then we will continue with the Minister's reply to the questions and the motions that were raised in the second term.
