ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	Today we are discussing the first term of office. Once again, I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the last defence budget of the Rutte II cabinet. Time to take stock: what can we say about this Secretary of Defense? Let's start with the good news. She became political talent of the year in 2012. In 2015, she was appointed by Opzij as the most influential woman of that year. She was committed to more international cooperation, and that was successful, for example with the Belgians and the Germans. This morning I read an article in Trouw. There was a nice illustration; I do not know if the Minister has already seen it. Let me show her the illustration. I quote from the article: 'Hennis has not fulfilled her role in the coalition agreement. (...) It began with the Minister diluting the vision of the future into a weakened 'policy note'. Defence used the cheese-shaving method: all military parts deliver something in and hard choices remain out." I know that problem. DOD beeps and cracks. The number of tasks has not decreased, despite the huge cuts made in the past. The staff is overloaded, the deficits are huge. The Court of Auditors is merciless about this. We therefore say: stop asking for soldiers and reduce the number of tasks. We also say stop irresponsible missions that are counterproductive. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but also the mission in Mali? They didn't bring much good. We'd rather bet on a peacekeeping force. Clingendael Institute has made good proposals for this. Nor are we in favour of expensive prestige projects such as the JSF or new submarines. Because of all the tensions around us, there is now a call for additional investment. But I ask my colleagues: do you know how much money is already going to defence, worldwide? Take a look at the beautiful article, the interview with former diplomat Edy Korthals Altes in the Groene Amsterdammer of August. I quote: '[...) the military-industrial complex [sleeps] worldwide 17 hundred billion dollars. That's 30% to 40% more than at the bottom of the Cold War. Compared to this sloppy, we spend a little bit on combating the existential problems facing people: hunger, disease and poverty." I'd like to hear a response. Now there is a call for additional spending on Defense because of Putin and because of the election of Trump, but Korthals Altes rightly points to the importance of de-escalation towards Russia. The Centre for Geopolitics points out that Donald Trump wants to normalize relations with Russia, so not escalate further but focus on leisure policy. Minister, isn't that a great opportunity for you these last few months to take the lead in rapprochement rather than polarization? Are you committed to a global ban on nuclear weapons? So not modernise and not nuclear weapons under the JSF, but reduce. That is also what the House of Representatives of the government wants: to use a modern military force that suits the Netherlands, a peacekeeping force without expensive weapons of attack. That would also be much more in line with the budget. Take a good look at all these missions, for example in Mali. That mission is very controversial, first of all because of the mandate. It's hard to stay neutral when you're actually working with the Malian government. In addition, the military themselves say that they perform below their level. The government wants to reduce the mission now and then extend it by 1 January. That is what we are going to talk about on 22 December, a day or ten before the actual extension begins. I find that very irresponsible. That is why I am asking today the question of air support in the event of incidents. It is uncertain whether the Germans provide for this. I cannot imagine the Dutch Government taking that risk. I'd like to get a reaction to that. We still don't know exactly what the JSF is going to cost. Probably the high dollar price makes it more expensive, maybe 600 million euros. Does the Minister still comply with the agreements with the Labour Party? And can she respond to the letter from U.S. Senator John McCain to Defense Secretary Carter? McCain talks about new delays due to software and price increases. Whistleblowers deserve fair treatment. Unfortunately, that doesn't always happen. Look at the in-depth articles on the Follow the Money website. Also this morning another one was placed about two whistleblowers from Eindhoven Air Force Base, about abuses at the BSB, the Special Security Brigade, and about lawyer Sébas Diekstra, who was harassed by Defense. Take that first whistleblower from Eindhoven. That case is about a doctor who messed with the whistleblower's medical records and later was promoted to colonel. According to the minister, the doctor didn't do anything wrong. She bases herself on the report of the Military Health Inspectorate, the IMG, but that report contains huge errors. Can the Minister give that report to the Chamber? The second whistleblower from Eindhoven reported fraud by a group of soldiers. The Minister does not want to go into this because he himself would have committed fraud. That's not strong, Minister. You should take a serious look at his case. In addition, there are questions about internal research in this area. There haven't been enough witnesses and the reporter hasn't been given much room for hearing and hearing. Moreover, the reporter was not allowed to see the investigation about himself. This continues to raise questions, as can be read on the website of Follow the Money. I advise the Minister to embrace an independent investigation now. In doing so, it takes away all appearances of a cover-up. We have just been able to table motions on the AOW-hole, a great injustice that military and civilian personnel have been harmed by politics. Next Tuesday we are going to vote on this; we are waiting for that. Last week I offered my report Victims of Dangerous Substances to the Minister. That's about PX-10 and chromium paint. The SP calls for a fair treatment of people who have served loyal service to the Defense Department for years. Some of them are seriously ill. The Minister must treat them properly. You can do that with a damages fund. Tomorrow I hope for a response from the Minister. The investigation into chromium paints is going to take a long time. That comes only after the summer of 2017. I find it very sad that people have to wait so long for an answer. Some of us are seriously ill right now. I call on the Minister to hurry. It's not too late. The Minister still has time for a few good choices. I say take that opportunity!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Actually, my colleague Ronald Vuijk would discuss the Defence budget for the VVD group today and tomorrow, but he is not able to do so because of sad private circumstances. So I am discussing the budget today and tomorrow. This is the last time I have discussed a budget. This is Minister Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert's last defense budget. That's something to think about. Dutch society owes her much thanks for her commitment to the Defence Organisation. As the first female minister, she has proved to be more than capable of making defence budgets more transparent, not concealing shortcomings and taking steps towards a future-proof military force. Greetings for that! Above all, the VVD Group also has a great deal of appreciation and respect for the military, sometimes also former soldiers, who have sometimes put themselves at risk for their own lives inside and outside the Netherlands in many places in the world for the interests of the Netherlands. Above all, let us not forget their home front, because behind every strong military there is a stable home front. It is a good thing that the current minister has increasingly called for attention and recognition in its term and that she has given it. At a time when previous cuts in Defense have made a huge change in people and equipment, an important start has been made in investing in the Defence Organisation in the past cabinet period. This Minister has had a hard time trying to neutralize previous major cuts during Rutte I's reign. It has succeeded to a large extent in terms of financial resources. On the Defence budget, a structural increase has been made, up to EUR 868 million. Important first steps towards a future-proof military force have been taken. Is that enough? The answer is no, not by a long shot. The state of the equipment of the military components is still worrying. The "trainability" of the staff in full width is insufficient and the continued ability of several units of the armed forces is insufficient. How does the minister reflect on her reign, those of the past few years, and how does she describe the state of affairs within the air force, the navy, the army and the military? Further in-depth investment in the armed forces, both in personnel and in equipment, will be urgently needed in the coming years. Moreover, as the General Court has said, the management of the organisation needs to be further improved. This is undoubtedly an important point. In the opinion of the VVD Group, it is therefore not necessary to start planning again in a new period of government and to do so infinitely. This is present in the existing multi-annual visions of the armed forces, which we believe are topical. Without prejudice to the improvement of supporting units and combat units, the starting point must be that this can be started immediately after the establishment of the next cabinet. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Teeven says that cuts have been made and that funds have been squandered. I must say that this has also been done with the help of the constructive opposition. That's just not what Mr. Teeven said. He says this isn't enough. The VVD's election programme says "force investment." In my view, some amendments will be tabled in order to make more money available for this budget as well. I have not yet seen any amendments from the VVD. Does this mean that the VVD is already looking at a possible increase in the amount on the Defence budget, regardless of the amount of 300 million that has been announced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	I will say something about this directly in my speech, but I will admit to Mr Voordewind before he walks away with his face in the other direction. Nor does the Christian Union Group walk away from Mr Voordewind if difficult decisions are to be taken, for example those relating to the AOW-hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	I understand that Mr Teeven is attached to his text, but he has just said that he does not consider the current funds of this cabinet to be sufficient. I think it is a political point and ask Mr Teeven what this means in practice. Is there going to be money coming from the VVD group towards the cabinet, or isn't that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	Of course, a lot has already been added for this budget, the 2017 budget. So we will not add anything to this budget. We shall therefore not support any opposition amendments if they are requested to do so. Now Mr Voordewind has an answer to his question. But I will be happy to give you a look at it. I am not stuck with my text; I would like to share it with Mr Voordewind about the new period of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	The world is getting more and more unsafe. The terrible images of bloody terrorist attacks in European capitals and violent violence in the Middle East are also coming into the homes of the Netherlands. In doing so, the situation of the civilian population appears to be less and less an issue in the conduct of acts of war. From reports in the media, but also from observations, which is even worse, we have to note that Russian bombers are entering NATO airspace again. There they have also been observed, Mr Van Dijk. Russian naval ships sail the North Sea and Putin will not shy away from the deployment of the nuclear weapons that are set up at the EU's borders, if you have to believe what he says. Immigration threatens Europe's stability and the awareness that freedom and security are not self-evident becomes stronger and stronger. That does not apply to everyone, I say at the same time, because there are people who hold on to a peacekeeping force, but generally the awareness becomes stronger and stronger. Add to that the result of last week's American presidential election, where the Republican Donald Trump was elected, and the statements he made in the campaign. Europe, and therefore the Netherlands, will have to stop its own pants. The US is less willing than before to take almost only the chestnuts out of the fire. And there is unfortunately enough fire in the world right now. In the meantime, military operations by the Netherlands in foreign countries can only be carried out with a further predatory construction on our armed forces. Military personnel, in particular technical personnel, are overloaded. There are too few spare parts for the equipment and the replacement of old equipment stands to some extent. Missions cannot be sustained for a long time. In doing so, missions also affect the practicability of the armed forces to the unacceptable level. I refer, for example, to the other skills of Air Force pilots after they have been deployed in Iraq and Syria for a long time. This also affects the readiness of the remaining units in the Netherlands. In addition, inflation, the euro-dollar exchange rate and wage and price adjustments cause a substantial loss of purchasing power when purchasing equipment. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the fact that a study is now being carried out on this subject. The VVD looks forward to the results of that study. The investment ratio has been lower for years than estimated in the budget. The Minister is therefore quite right to say that replacement investments in submarines, frigates and mine hunters, for example, cannot be covered by the current budget. The objective agreed two years ago in Wales, namely to achieve a growth path towards defence expenditure of 2% of gross domestic product, is far from being met in the Netherlands. The growth path is endorsed by the VVD, but the realization of this is unfortunately far from self-evident in the Netherlands. A pacifist part of politics and the population believes that violence does not contribute to the solution of any problem in the world. Another part of politics and the population is in favour of increasing defence expenditure, but when choices have to be made, care, infrastructure and the environment often prevail. If we ignore the absurd ideas about flying campships and uncovered billions of increase, then we see a PVV that wants to increase very vaguely, a CDA and D66 that are moving cautiously towards the European average and a Socialist Party that only wants a peacekeeping force. And that's what the voter has to do next year. People at home want to be able to rely on the government and the upcoming governments to ensure...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	That was a bit of a lure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	Well, not a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is indeed a matter of bite. Of course, Mr Teeven is free to blame all kinds of political colleagues. He said that the CDA and D66 wanted to work carefully towards a European average. Well, that's striking, isn't it? Mr Teeven is from the VVD and the Minister is from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	If Mr Teven thinks we are cautious, I ask him what his plan is. What exactly does he want to ask the Minister? That it makes concrete how quickly it wants to reach the European average?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	It should not be surprising that the VVD is strongly in favour of reaching the European average at the end of the next government period. If Mrs Belhaj reads page 24 of the VVD election programme, she has undoubtedly done so; I am sure she has read that the European average is also the starting point for the VVD and that this should actually be achieved at the end of the next government period. That means that this is still the starting point for us. However, the VVD also has the premise that we must have a sound financial system. That has always been in the wish list of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	If I translate this a little bit, I think it's not about tackling now, for which you have the responsibility, but about moving forward. That is why I ask: what would the VVD want to happen now? There is now a minister of the VVD and he can now start and come up with a plan. That page 24 of the VVD is for after March. You're still in a position to do something about it. What would you like the Minister to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	After replying to Mr Voordewind, I was kind of hoping that I would remain free of these kinds of questions, but all right. I have already said that the VVD Group will not support amendments for more money for the defence budget, especially if they are covered in a questionable way. This minister has already made money: she has made extra money for the 2017 budget. Mrs Belhaj should not blame me for looking a little ahead to 15 March. I am a realpolitician of the cold ground. I think we should all look at how things are going to develop. And I also think the voter should know what he's up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	I couldn't agree more. When I hear Mr Teeven, he thinks that the Knops/Dijkgraaf amendment is well covered, so that's all gonna work out. My question is about this new period. 'Cause I hear diffuse noises. I hear Mr Teeven saying that at the end of the next cabinet period we should be on the European average. For that, about 2.5 billion would have to be added. I also hear sounds in the press that the VVD wants to invest 1 billion in defense. That's not gonna get you anywhere near it. What's the real VVD sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	The real VVD sound is that the VVD wants to invest at least 1 billion in the first year of the new reign. Mr Dijkgraaf can put it all together and sees that it goes on and on, but we do not have to explain all that to each other. But it has to be possible. If growth continues to develop as it is now, it will certainly be feasible in 2018. Whether it will prove feasible again in the coming years, in the unstable world that can now be foreseen, time will learn. I know Mr Dijkgraaf as someone who always wants his housekeeping book in order. So that's what you need to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	This is a crucial discussion. The election programme is about four years, and not just about 2018. You have to tell me what you're going to do in those four years, and you're going to have to add a financial picture to that. We will put together a picture of between 3 and 4 billion in the last year of the cabinet. I think Mr Teeven is saying that this is a good plan. 1 billion in 2018 means 2 billion in 2019, 3 in 2020 and 4 in 2021. Is my interpretation correct that that is the purpose of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	No, the financial picture of the VVD is coming up. Mr Dijkgraaf is going to put his picture down and so are we. At the beginning of December, the financial picture comes to our election programme. I have just made it clear that it is at least 1 billion in the first year, so the first year of the new cabinet period; that is not the election year, because that is next year. The way things are going to go on, we need to look at developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u22	It is always extraordinary to listen to Mr Bitch. I must honestly say that in the past period I have experienced that he has fulfilled many of his promises. So I can say at this point that I am sorry that he is leaving the Chamber. We know the VVD from its pre-election promises, while it does something else afterwards. That is all part of what Mr Teeven has said. He says we're going to be on the European average. I understand that all these programmes still have to be accounted for. He speaks with his party, but he cannot know all of this until the decimal place; we do not all know exactly that either. But compare this with Prime Minister Rutte's statement: 1 billion more. Mr Teeven said 2.5 billion, with which you are on the European average. What is it now? I do not care very much what Mr Teven says, but I would like to see what is being said now and then put into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u23	If I'm standing here talking and it doesn't matter what I'm saying, I'm just not saying anything anymore. But of course that's all a bit of bullshit. I thank Mr Knops for his compliment, although you always have to be careful when Mr Knops gives you compliments. Anyway, thank you for that. We have just repaired the AOW-hole together with the PvdA Group. Yeah, it's about what you do. I would like to remind Mr Knops that the CDA and the VVD in Rutte I have caused a lot of trouble together in the Defence Organisation. I am not going to repeat that every time, but it had to be said again. So there's a lot to fix too. We say at least 1 billion. For the rest, we are looking at the growth path. That's where it's gonna move. In fact, we have to live up to the European average. We'll talk about 1,49%. However, I had agreed that we would not hang ourselves too much in percentages, and that is not what Mr Knops is doing in the electoral programme. I will ask Mr Knops what exactly he wants to make available. Again, this is the target. I can't make it any prettier. It is therefore at least 1 billion, starting immediately in the new government period and reaching the European average. That's not a false promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u24	If a promise was false, you can only judge afterwards. Mr Teven now pretends to be very surprised that we are getting into this, but he kicked the ball himself into the arena by making some statements about other parties' programmes. In view of what Mr Dijkgraaf has just said, I note that we now have the AOW-hole. That was partly resolved by Mr Teeven. There is also the Knops/Dijkgraaf amendment. We can do that now; we do not have to promise that first. There is good cover under that. Of course, the gambling tax will go up again. It may be complicated for Mr Teeven if the tax goes up, but it is about the gambling tax and it is for a very good cause. So I invite Mr Teven to support that amendment. In this way, the VVD shows that it is not just about promises, but also about actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u25	The problem with the VVD is that these games of chance pay a lot of charities. I think it would be a shame if an unjustified increase in the gambling tax would reduce the number of people involved in these games of chance, and that all these charities in society, which Mr Knops's party, Mr Van Dijk's party, Mrs Eijsink's party and my party would get a lot less. All these charities contribute precisely to reducing violence in society and perhaps to reducing the use of defence. I find it a shame in that light to use such unsubstantiated cover. That coverage seems very nice, but it is only ridden in the amendment because one is morally opposed to gambling. With that coverage, we Liberals do not have that much. I would like to say that honestly to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u26	In the great summary of other parties' election programmes, I missed the programme of the PvdA. Is that because this is an incomprehensible programme, or because we simply have to include this programme under the VVD? That's question one. Then question two. Do I now have to say that Mr Teeven is here proclaiming a lot of muscle talk about the VVD that is going to work towards a European average, whereas in fact only 1 billion is being invested, with which we are far from achieving that European average? So, as a defence lover, can you go to the SGP or Bontes? They really want to make these investments in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u27	As a taxpayer, you have to think carefully about it, because it has to be paid for. I don't see that in some parties. Moreover, I do not see that in Mr Van Dijk's party either. Such a peacekeeping force is soon done, but for the rest you abandon the world a little bit, the Netherlands first. Then the answer to question 1. I have not missed the PvdA party programme, but Mrs Eijsink and Mrs Günal have proved to be colleagues who are very well able to explain their own party programme, often best, apart from the VVD in this Chamber. So let them do this themselves. I don't have much of a comment on that. Of course, I've been watching the PvdA program, but I'm always looking in particular at the parties that have found everything wrong with Defense over the past four years. Of course, I always get to the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u28	It is a pity, however, that Mr Teeven is leaving politics, because for the viewers alone he is very entertaining with all his talk. I note that Mr Teven is all about the question. The VVD has a lot of talk about DOD. That's what we from the VVD are used to before the election. After the elections, there can be severe cuts, see Rutte I, with a cut of 1 billion dollars, so the voter has also been warned. The VVD does not make it true and will not work towards the European average in the coming cabinet period. It is only a step in this direction and at the same time the military and civilian personnel are not fully assisted around the AOW-hole. I find that really disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u29	I will answer Mr Van Dijk's gibberish. At least some of these citizens are being helped. The DOD was already going to compensate for the AOW hole. The people are helped by this and the Defense does not do so at the expense of the serving military. That's a lot more than the SP had hoped for. Let's get that straight. Then the other story. No, we're perfectly honest. We want to get to that European average. There will have to be substantial money in the coming years and we will start with 1 billion. I can't be more clear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u30	I must say that Mr Van Dijk is right, because Mr Teeven is again selling a lot of hot air, but we are used to that from the VVD. Why is the VVD heading towards a European average rather than the NATO standard of 2%, which is the hardest deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u31	The NATO standard isn't the hardest deal. I have to take Mr Bontes back to the facts. The facts are that a growth path to 2% has to be achieved, as agreed in Wales, but it has not been said at all that this should be done in the next period of government. If you want to achieve a growth path to 2% in the coming reign, you really knock that money out of the pocket with taxpayers. Where am I heading? In any case, the VVD is not heading for a flight camp ship, because that is a nonsense purchase, which even the Defence Command does not see at all. I would like to hear from Mr Bontes what he wants to do with his air carrier, but the VVD is not heading for that. The VVD also focuses on policies that are supported by financial robustness. If you have to correct and take painful measures, the VVD will do so; it has done so over the past period. We don't sell air bikes. I have already exchanged this with Mr Bontes. Government is making choices; opposition is much easier, especially when you are always in opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u32	I should like to return to the flight camp ship, because Mr Teeven is entitled to an explanation. The purchase of such a ship is very realistic. It is possible and can also be very functional. It also sends out a signal as a country: defence is important to us. You show that you are proud of the Netherlands and have a strong navy. After all, we are a seafaring nation. It's easy for a plane camp ship to fit in with that. The Spanish have one, the Juan Carlos. It costs 360 million. That's a lot of money, but if you're really going to be on NATO standard, it's easy to pay. Given the threats in the world, it's very good to do so. Mr Teeven is now getting away very easily with regard to the NATO agreement. He's turning out. Given the changed situation in the world, with threats from all sides, you just have to sit on NATO standard. You can no longer be freerider, as the VVD has been for years. You're gonna have to meet that standard. I am really asking for an explanation: is Mr Teeven aware of the importance of sitting on that 2% standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u33	The interruptions must be really short. And the answers, too, Mr Teeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u34	If the questions are long, the answers are long. 2% is a standard that the VVD really sees something in, but it does not think that it can be achieved in the coming reign. We want to reach the European average. Mr Bontes will have to explain later on why he wants to fly a campship, but we would like to invest in submarines, mine hunters and frigates for the Navy. That's what the Minister's letter was about. That is the investment we want to make and it makes a much greater contribution to the Dutch Navy and NATO than a flight camp ship that you can't do anything with; that can't even enter the port of Den Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u35	Do you mind if I take a moment to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u36	It is your turn for your own input and interruptions to go in two ways: a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u37	The people at home want to be able to trust that the government and the upcoming governments will ensure that we are and remain safe. People should be able to rely on that, too. In recent years, the VVD has made an effort to do so, and this also applies to this minister, by making structural efforts to increase the defence budget every time there was room for it. Despite all the frames that other parties try to create, the VVD is the only one who, with the agreement of and in cooperation with the PvdA, has delivered concretely. What has the Minister done with the compensation of about 870 million? I'm gonna run it again. The greatest increase or neutralization, however you like, of the Defence budget since the end of the Cold War has taken place under this minister. All the bodies have been pulled out of the closet and problems have been reported to the Chamber. In the file F-35, after almost twenty years, a knot has been cut, with a high level of employment for the Dutch Defence industry, partly due to years of maintenance after purchase. The reorganisation was helped by the relocation of the Royal Military School from Weert and the Marine Corps from Doorn. That's a lot of expensive decentralised capacity, I say. The Charles Doorman has been kept alive and not sold. An armored infantry battalion has been maintained in Ermelo, thanks to the Christian Union. Further international cooperation has been achieved in implementation. This is about cooperation with Germany and Belgium. Defence has played a leading role in the creation of the VJTF, NATO's flashpower. This is perhaps the greatest credit to the Minister for getting defence issues on the political agenda of virtually all parties. It has also played a leading role within Europe, for example in the field of international cooperation. That must be said once and for all: that has never happened in that form before. A catch-up is also being made with regard to the support units of our armed forces. Today we are discussing the Defence budget for 2017. This also offers the opportunity to take a look at the future. After all, governing is looking ahead. Now that we are standing here, the question is: how should we proceed? The VVD Group believes that the line taken by this Minister will be pursued vigorously in the coming years. To protect our security and freedom, we need a realistic foreign policy in which we take the world as it is, and not as it should ideally be. Such a policy cannot exist without credible military capacity. We need to be able to confront those who pose a threat, and we need to use our armed forces to get the fist on the table where it is necessary. We want to increase expenditure on this subject, as I have already mentioned, in the coming period. We're not just guarding our freedom. As far as international cooperation is concerned, the VVD still believes in NATO as a cornerstone of the Dutch security policy. This also calls for a flexible military force equipped to resist the external and internal threats of the 21st century. Within the NATO alliance, the Dutch military must remain a loyal and reliable partner who is always ready to deliver and who actually delivers. The VVD stands for intensive transatlantic international cooperation. There is no need for a European army - 'no' - to be stacked on top of it. We want European cooperation, but we do not want a European army. As far as the VVD is concerned, a European army is undesirable and unrealistic. Further cooperation is excellent, but as it has been designed by the current Minister, with practical and practical feasibility as a compass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u38	What does Mr Teeven think of the wonderful position that Guy Verhofstadt has expressed on behalf of the ALDE Group, in which D66 and the VVD sit together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u39	I don't think it's a great point of view. I think it's a lousy point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u40	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr Teeven confirmed what was in the VVD's election programme, namely that the VVD saw no benefit in a European army. That is why I have a few questions for Mr Teeven. Is he prepared to speak loudly today against an EU defence budget, against a European military headquarters and against an autonomous defence action by the European Union? Is he prepared to speak out loud today against these three points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u42	It is a repetition of moves, but I can confirm that the VVD Group is not in favour of all three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u43	So Mr Teeven says that he will not support these points. I wonder why the VVD has consistently voted against all the motions of the PVV of recent times aimed at transferring our control over our armies and directed against the dismantling of that control and against the transfer to the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mr De Roon's first question was a clear question. I was able to answer that very clearly. Mr De Roon's second question is an unclear one, because the facts are a bit mixed up. The VVD is against a European army. We share that view with the Freedom Party. The VVD is for European cooperation. That is exactly what this minister has done everything about over the past four years. It has made every effort to achieve maximum cooperation at international level, including with the countries around us, with the limited budget. I've looked at that with admiration. I've been thinking, how's that gonna go? However, after a year and a half of looking at it, together with Mr De Roon, I have noticed that this is the way we should go during working visits. We shouldn't have a sale. We need to work together internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u45	And Mr De Roon's question on the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u46	That's another story. The PVV wants everything national and nationalistic. This is different from European cooperation, but it is not a European army. We share with the PVV that we do not want a European army, but we do not share with the PVV that we should do it nationalistally. We believe that we should work with our partners. That is very important in Europe. We also need to work with the Americans, because we can't do it alone. However, that is not national and not nationalistic, because that is really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr Teeven is overlooking some things with these general comments on our motions. Recently, the PVV tabled a motion asking the government to turn its back on less non-binding EU defence cooperation during the EU Presidency. I am thinking of our motion, in which we have called on the government not to merge army parts with those of a foreign military force. Mr Teeven will say that this is not yet EU cooperation, but they are all building blocks for a final EU army. Each time the Netherlands does with those things that the PVV does not want and which the VVD does want, give up a piece of control, a piece of power over its own army. The ultimate objective is the creation of a European army. As far as I am concerned, the VVD is simply the long arm of Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mr. Chairman. I haven't heard a question, but if you allow such a long interruption without a question, I'll give you a slightly longer answer. I note that Mr De Roon does not understand it or does not want to understand it. I think the latter, because I know him as an intelligent guy who goes along with all the work visits and who knows very well that international cooperation, working together and connecting with others have enormous added value and leads to cost savings. This Minister has also proved this when it comes to the Navy and the Army. That's quite another thing than giving up control of your national armed forces. There is also a world to be won by tuning together when doctrines change or are physically purchased or disposed of; so practical cooperation on the battlefield can make a difference, not so much beautiful policy pieces or partial studies. The VVD does not need daydreaming, except that we do think that we should wake up in that respect. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to the question of which countries and in what specific ways it considers further international cooperation possible. Can it clearly confirm that NATO remains the cornerstone of security policy and that the plans that are being forged in Brussels are not tailored to a European army? Will the Minister also promise that no irreversible steps will be taken in the development of the EU Global Strategy before informing the Court of Justice about this? We too do not want a European army to be messed up. I come now to the men and women who stand every day, round the clock, in weather and wind, for our safety. Staff are and will remain the real capital of the Defence Organisation within the above-mentioned objectives. Talent, flexibility and commitment determine the impact of the Dutch armies and must also determine the flow of military and civilian personnel. The use of reserves for the armed forces, as well as the care of veterans, must remain an important part of the entire defence apparatus. This work can only be done with motivated staff. In that connection, I have two questions for the Minister. What space does she see to allow talent and motivation to be even more directing for a career within the armed forces rather than maturity and age? Last weekend we read an article in the newspaper with the headline: Younger does not want to become a Jan Soldier. That article says that the inflow from the VeVa to the lower ranks is very disappointing. Less than 30% of these students choose a job at the Department of Defense. I'd like a response. Before I close, I have two more points that need to be addressed. Firstly, the report on a forthcoming decision by the Netherlands to purchase M-fregates and mine hunters together with the Belgian government. Can the Minister say anything about this? When does she expect the A letter to be sent to the Chamber? The second point concerns the Coast Guard in the Caribbean. The re-dimensionation of this is not yet structurally regulated, but only occasionally for 2017. So there is a good chance that next year we will be in the same trouble with the Coast Guard again. Especially in the context of the problems in Venezuela and regional drug transports, this is an important issue. It is difficult for Defense to be an executive for the Coast Guard, while the financial resources of Home Affairs and Kingdom relations are not yet fixed. If the Home Office doesn't solve it again next year, does the Secretary of Defense have to bring us the bad news again? What is the Minister's response to this? I'm closing up. The recovery of the armed forces to its full extent has led to an important but incomplete start in recent years. There was no other way. The Minister deserves full praise for her efforts. In a rapidly changing world, a strong and professional military force is still a must in the future. This must be made possible on 15 March next. This budget is an important start.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u49	We'll see what the VVD comes up with when it comes to extra money. But that's for another reign. My question concerns NATO and Turkey. The VVD has always spoken critically about the counter-coup taking place in Turkey and about the many arrests. Does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats think that Turkey's membership of NATO should be reviewed in the light of recent developments and the possible introduction of the death penalty and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u50	You must always follow Turkey critically, whatever our group's spokesman for Foreign Affairs has done, but right now I see reason to keep that membership under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u51	Turkey is attacking our allies in Iraq and Syria, the Kurds. Where's the red line for the VVD fraction to do it? What else does Turkey have to do to keep this under review?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u52	Turkey is doing things wrong in the world as we know it at the moment, but still doing things very well. I would like to mention, for example, the agreements we have made on the limitation of migration. Good results are still being achieved in this respect, no matter how you look at them. You can look at it differently, but there are fewer people on the way to Europe via Turkey. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes that. So that's what we've been working on. Turkey also still has the second largest army within NATO. That's a fact, too. Turkey is therefore still a long way from being needed in the security policy, both of NATO and of Europe. So you have to take a critical look at Turkey, but we are not going to consider which red line the Turks have to leave before the end of the exercise. We need to look at how things are developing. Today's world changes from day to day. If we had asked each other at the time who would be the next President of the United States, we would not have known either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr Teeven spoke nicely when he said that the VVD saw nothing in the European army. Last Monday Guy Verhofstadt published another article in which he indicated that it was time to unite everything under one European command. I assume that Mr Teeven will use all his influence in liberal circles to break that understanding that this is not a good way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u54	I have also heard Verhofstadt say a lot about Ukraine. None of that has happened yet. I think we should be a little careful about that. Let it be clear that Verhofstadt's statements are not the line of the VVD fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. The 2017 budget, the last of this minister in this cabinet period, is a good time to look back. Mr Van Dijk already took an advance on that and I could repeat it to him. The question is, of course, what was the status of the military in 2012, and what has this minister contributed to it? Four years ago, the Secretary of Defense arrived, enthusiastically. In the last four years, we have also experienced her this way: on the brink of the armed forces, standing in front of the military and also full of ambition and promises. One of the promises made when she took office was that no cuts would be made on the troops and that she would put her house in order. It has already been said that, after about a year, the armed forces would become more financially and operationally sustainable, even for the longer term. The armed forces would thus emerge stronger from the crisis. We all know what happened. The cabinet has cut back, a total of 300 million in 2013 and 2014. It wasn't until after that that money came in. That is the 860 million that Mr Bitch is talking about. That was too little and too late, because fortunately the economic crisis is over, but the crisis in the defence sector is far from over. The gap between resources and ambitions has only widened. The situation is so serious that the CDS wrote in its weblog on 11 October: we are at a low point. I quote: "Lately there has been regular reports of the state of our armed forces. Disturbing stories in the newspaper, worrying discussions on social media and experts ringing the bell. Unfortunately, I can only confirm that. We feel the shortcomings in our readiness daily." The Prime Minister recently apologized for his broken promises about the €1,000, the mortgage interest deduction and "no money for the Greeks." Mr Teeven has done so before before for the cuts of the VVD on Defense. My question to the Minister is: is she willing to acknowledge that too little has been done? The window of Defense still looks nice, but the warehouses hit the army and part of the inventory went on sale. Accounts are moved forward to the future and the personnel, the main enabler of Defence, become overloaded and partly demotivated. Meanwhile, it's storming out and the house isn't in order. That's bad for our children's future. I hope the election of the new American president will wake things up. Europe now looks like a henhouse where the light suddenly turns on at night. Trump is right: Europe must take more responsibility. The Americans now pay 70% of the expenses, and the Netherlands behaves at times, not so much in terms of commitment, but in terms of budgets, as a freerider. I have been calling that out for a number of years and will keep calling it out for as long as it is necessary. The agreement at the Wales Summit in 2014 was that spending should increase in ten years towards the NATO 2% standard. Signed Prime Minister Rutte and Minister of Defence Hennis. So, what's next? In 2021, three years before the expiry of the Wales deadline, expenditure will have fallen from 1.13% to 1.12% of gross national product. The Minister says that the downward trend has reversed, but expenditure is only rising with a snail's pace. Of 300 million extra this year, 197 million remain. This means that expenditure will fall again. The trend fracture is a soap slope. Another broken promise from Rutte. Why does the Minister believe that the Netherlands is complying with the Wales agreements? The Netherlands is now dangling at the bottom of the list of NATO Member States in a poor 17th place. Fortunately, the youth in the Netherlands feels very differently from the cabinet. This is evident from the children's millions note, which 10,000 children from 400 classes have participated in. They want a lot more money for Defense, so there's still hope for the future. I think these kids feel pretty good about the need for DOD. The Minister cannot live up to her own 2013 future paper at the moment. We are now almost in 2017, and the security situation has not improved. That justifies a considerable effort, an extra effort. It is not for nothing that NATO delivers harsh criticism in its defense planning capability review. The Labour Party spoke in the debate that followed on 24 May of a "yellow card with a" how else could it be "red edge." The Council of State also has a harsh judgment. The cabinet is doing too little, but the military can no longer fully meet its first objective, namely the defence of the Netherlands and its allies. The Minister does not give a clear answer to the question of when to do so. The employability has fallen three years in a row, the readiness is even lower than last year and the cabinet leaves the armed forces to crawl too slowly and slowly. Only in 2021 will the basic readiness be in order and not even of the entire military force. So there are major shortages of enablers, which are not being solved. The reservist policy is getting going too late and there are serious delays. In 2017, there will be less money spent on reservists than in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u56	We do not need to ask Mr Knops to apologize for what happened under Rutte I. Because he has done this several times here equestrianly. But he is now mentioning a number of cuts that the current cabinet has made. He's doing the right thing. But let's take a look at a moment when the CDA is likely to return to the cabinet. We just heard the VVD spokesman speak here. He wants to go to the European average of NATO, to 1.5%. What is the CDA group going to be on later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u57	That's a good question. I can only quote from the draft electoral programme that has yet to be adopted. Of course, the CDA has quite a tradition when it comes to party democracy. I don't want to traverse that tradition. So I can only quote literally what is written about this in our draft programme. But I think Mr Voordewind has already read that. It says that we want to work towards the European average in the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u58	Can we therefore assume that the 2 billion to 2.5 billion will be included in the CDA's election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u59	In fact, I can only say that I cannot say anything about it yet. Mr Voordewind knows how these processes are going. These are the draft texts. They shall be established. There's gonna be another bill from the CPB. Mr Voordewind will have to wait and see. I'm not making any promises about it yet, and I'm certainly not making any promises I couldn't keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u60	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u61	That's the kind of thing I really hate. So that's not what I'm trying to do. I come to the staff, the enameler of the armed forces. The outflow is greater than the inflow. And the question is, what about the brain drain? Is the recruitment left behind and the flow tight? What does the minister think of the message in the AD that the young man doesn't want to be a Jan Soldier? Students at VeVa programmes quit for a job at the Department of Defense. Half of them do not even bother to apply after completing their training. Could this have something to do with the fact that Defense is no longer seen as an attractive employer with a career perspective? What is the Minister going to do about this, other than to print staff costs? I have already said in the debate that the Minister regularly hides behind previous cuts and their consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u63	The Rutte II cabinet also cut back. If the path to recovery had been steeper, and if the coalition had supported the amendments tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and me in recent years and had left the choice different, then the problems would have been much less serious. The extra money of the cabinet evaporates largely due to inflation and the higher rate of the dollar. Defense gets $40 million from the Treasury for that higher dollar rate. That's a drop on a glowing plate. With the F-35 alone, the deficit has risen to almost EUR 600 million. Defence is still not compensated for the higher price increase for equipment and ammunition. The cabinet will have the CBS investigate. That's good. That's what I've said before. But the problem has been known since the 2010 reconnaissances. The CDA urges the Minister to demand full compensation in the spring note, and thus finally implement the Knops and Knops/Bitches motion. The Minister said during the WHO Material: the relationship with Finance was bad when I entered and is now much better. Yeah. In the meantime, however, the problems in the Defense Department have become more serious. I just mentioned two examples, but I can also mention the examples of the Wul and the AOW-hole. With a tight budget, this year's Minister took 85 million in austerity measures. At the same time, she said in the WHO Material that she had sufficient resources with the extra money. That seems to contradict each other. The Minister then said that he could spend a sum of 1 billion within her budget. My question is: will the real Secretary of Defense, in line with the real answer, rise? Which one of the Three? It can't all be true. The reality is that the extra money is too little and that the budget is so tight that the Minister does not exclude new temporary measures for next year. According to officers' associations, the shortage of combat support and combat support is 400 million. In addition, an additional 500 million is needed to close the gap in investment. Then we're at $1 billion. But there is also the AOW-hole, which is not even counted. If the next cabinet doesn't close those holes, parts of the military will have to be amputated again. This must be done while the security situation continues to deteriorate. We're surrounded by instability. Russia is aggressively manifesting. Geopolitics is back. The technological advantage of the West is no longer self-evident. Russia can raise an umbrella of resistance at sea and in the air, in Kaliningrad or in Syria, with advanced air defence systems and anti-ship missiles. Land forces are greatly strengthened with new generations of tanks and artillery. The doctrine is shifted from defensive to offensive. Russia's policy is aimed at reducing the West, the Middle East and the Balkans. The cabinet looks like a rabbit in the headlights. Howitzers and mine hunters are still going to sell and that while so much fighting power has already been cut off. The AIV spoke of a light army for a reason. Then there is the growing cyber threat, the need for digital resilience, continuous capacity development. The Middle East is a fireplace. ISIS is being pushed into the defensive, with thanks too, and I say it again to the military. The downside, however, is that the threat of terror in the Netherlands will increase if the caliphate collapses and possibly thousands of jihadists return to Europe. We've heard today that the Marechaussee isn't even capable of catching those people anymore. By the way, the battle between Shiites and Sunnis can flare up even further. NATO alliance Turkey is seeking military cooperation with Russia. Rather, she was considering purchasing Chinese missile defence systems. That's what we thought of the crazy ones within NATO, but now they're gonna do business with the Russians. How does the Minister feel about that? Is it prepared to make firm statements about this, including on the NATO platform? The Minister states: this cabinet sees security as a priority. I wonder if that's really true when you look at the numbers. The Minister acts according to the motto "not to tackle, but to move forward." The future note of this minister is, in the end, a building that is still in the scaffolding. Our group has at least twelve large files; various motions in which the cabinet is urged to increase money for Defence have not been carried out. I refer to the motions tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, my own on price compensation, my own and Mr Teeven's on compensation for exchange rate and inflation changes, as well as Mrs Eijsink's and Mr Teeven's motion on financing additional claims from the defence of veterans outside the defence budget. Another missed opportunity. Clingendaelesexpert Zandee described the future of the armed forces after four years of Rutte II as nothing more than a recovery force. I don't think he's far off. The cabinet didn't do enough and too late. According to our group, we need a delta plan for Defense now. Over the past four years, we have spent more money in our counter-budget than the cabinet. This year, too, we have done so, through the amendment I tabled together with Mr Dijkgraaf. I would also like to mention the proposals on AOW compensation. Defence and the need for collective security seem no longer to be expected from this cabinet. We have seen this at the AOW-hole, which is quite clear that there is no longer the willingness to support this minister in her fight for more money. There has been insufficient urgency and speed in recent years. I hope that after the elections, on the basis of the current programmes, other times will come and that the defence sector will be able to invest in the security that is so important to all of us. Furthermore, I hope that we can really work with it to restore our armed forces to a healthy military force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u64	I expected the CDA to take the time to tell us something about entering the service. In the context of this budget, I wonder if the CDA has given any thought to this. On average, introduction would cost about one billion, which is an old estimate. How does the CDA see the idea under the heading "living together" in the CDA programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u65	That is a very good question, but I really have to give the same answer as Mr Voordewind: that is part of the electoral programme for the coming period. That is why we do not come up with proposals on this issue in this budget. But you are right: we launched that plan. We also see that much wider than the classic service, as it was. We too believe that the current professional armed forces are the best suited and the best use of our resources when it comes to security. Military service 2.0 could broaden you to care and education. We see them much more as a way of connecting with society and involving certain groups that are now lagging behind and need coaching, guidance and education. The financing of these plans is outside our concept of strengthening the defence budget. It's completely unrelated to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u66	We're gonna have to see that. But I still find your speech fascinating. You know that defense is incredibly hard at the moment to get to the level as quickly as possible. However, you think it is legitimate to say: but the defense can also take on a CDA re-educational toy. Do you think that's justified? Isn't it the most important task of the Defense Department right now to ensure the security of us and others?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u67	I absolutely agree with Mrs Belhaj on that last point. That is also what we have been advocating in recent years when it comes to defence. But Mrs Belhaj cannot deny that, given the positive effects of military service, even in the past, it would be very good for certain parts of our society to undergo it and eventually to establish those links. It would be a mistake to take that out of the defence budget, because then Mrs Belhaj is right, then it will be at the expense of. We believe that the DOD has unique capabilities that others don't. That is why I am thinking of soldiers who are pouring out after a FLO, who have a wealth of experience and who have a great deal of expertise to guide, train and train these young people. That's how you see our plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u68	I also have a question about that CDA conscription plan, conscript 2.0. I now understand from what Mr Knops said that this is about the commitment of the conscripts to education and care. So it seems that it has nothing to do with military matters, that it has nothing to do with defence. Is it true that these conscripts do not receive military training and that they never get a gun or any other firearm in their hands? Is that the image I'm supposed to have on conscript 2.0?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u69	We call it military service 2.0 to remove it from the service as we all know it from the past. During the time I trained conscripts myself, many years ago, the men were summoned. The Minister of Defence is now in the process of making proposals to the Council of State to include women in compulsory service. We also see it much wider than just defence. Defence can play a role in this, but you could also go wider into care and education. This depends on the preferences of the people themselves, but also on the need we see as a society to train and guide certain people. Whether it should be people who could also be deployed................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, it's a combination of, it's en-and-and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Knops is going around my question. My question is quite clear: do these people get a gun in their hands, do they get military training? In short, are they also trained as military? If that is the case, Mr Knops is in the process of demolishing the armed forces from the inside out. It costs a lot of money and then all kinds of Moroccan street thugs get shooting training and all kinds of hard-to-educate young people are gonna screw things up. That conscription plan costs at least a billion a year and there is no military need for it at all. If that is the aim of Mr Knops, that these people are also given military training and are also taught how to handle firearms, then that is a very bad thing, that is what I am telling him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u71	I myself have had the pleasure of giving firearms training to conscripts. I can tell you that there were some very dangerous people in there. Not because they had ideological ideas, but because they couldn't handle a weapon. They can, they'll get rejected and they'll go home. However, if you look at the role these people could play, I am thinking in particular of, for example, national tasks and tasks that are now partly done by NATRES, national support for events, that sort of thing. That's what these people could be used for. We will have to work it all out, but I do not immediately see the picture of the fully trained military, who has had full basic training and is temporary. I don't see that, but I don't rule out the possibility that certain groups would get weapons training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr. Chairman. Today four years and two weeks ago Rutte II joined, November 2012. 17 September 2013 the Chamber received the letter In the interest of the Netherlands. In September 2013, the General Court was clear about this: the military must be rebalanced with the available budget. We must make concessions to the otherwise reduced ambitions and the capabilities of the armed forces. In recent years, we have talked a lot about the work done by the armed forces in recent years. I'll look to the left first, because that's customary. That's where the minister is now. I would like to repeat to the other colleagues that this Minister has done an exceptional job with her commitment, commitment and enthusiasm. I am also looking very explicitly at the right, because there are all kinds of people who represent the military and the citizens who have made a huge effort in recent years. The same goes for their home front, their partners. I'm gonna take a look at the public gallery, too. I know that several people are listening at home today, because not all soldiers and civilians can sit here, even if they might want to. In recent years, so many people have been involved in making a difference for the military, who are doing special work. If I may, Mr President, you have been visiting our military in Mali for the past week. I can assure you, Mr President, that I have heard from the President how special that visit was. I can assure you that the President was already an advocate for our soldiers and citizens, which she is now even more so. That military is special, hence the special position. Last week I paid a lot of attention to it in the legislative consultation on Staff. I would ask the Minister to respond to that. It bothers me that laws and regulations are not compatible with each other. That is also apparent from the letters of the Chambers. Is it possible to come up with a proposal on this, I ask the Minister. What differences can be made? Both the Wul and the AOW have not been sufficiently passed on by other ministries. It cannot be the case that the military suffers from conflicting laws and regulations or that the defence budget suffers from them, and hence the conditions of employment for the military and that the solidarity between active and no longer active soldiers is undermined. European defence cooperation is something the Labour Party has been standing for since the late 1990s. I am incredibly happy that in 2016 almost all parties stand for European defence cooperation. This has been hard worked on over the past few years. It wasn't Trump who got us into this. In Chigago, Obama said in 2012: get your act together. In September 2014, Obama said: get your act together. That was in Wales. We reconfirmed that in Warsaw. Where Obama said "get your act together," Trump actually says: get your ass together. That's what happened. The language is now a little clearer, but it's not new. The Netherlands should not suddenly follow Trump. I do not intend to do that, nor do my group. It must be in our little toes that we consider peace and security to be important. If you don't, you don't take steps. If it isn't, there's no progress. The commitment to peace and security cannot be imposed by other countries, by other presidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u73	Let me say that I regret that this is the last budget discussion with Mrs Eijsink. I mean that sincerely, despite the fact that we often disagree on defence. I hear Mrs Eijsink say what has been said in recent years, but how does she assess the actual results of this cabinet, in contrast to the commitments made in Wales, to grow to 2%? I have her previewed what percentage will come out in 2021. Is Mrs Eijsink satisfied with this on behalf of the PvdA Group? She uses big words, like it was all known for a long time that more had to happen, but where are the actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u74	I'm gonna miss Mr. Knops, too. I don't know if he said that now, but I'll just say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u75	My wife is listening too, so be careful!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u76	I know Mrs. Knops, so this is allowed...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mrs Eijsink, your laugh does not go away from your speaking time. What you are unlocking, Mr Knops!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u78	The results of Rutte II cannot be separated from Rutte I; so does Mr Knops. Rutte I joined in November 2010 and fell in April 2012. The austerity letter from former Minister Hillen was about putting finances in order after the economic crisis. That letter came out on April 8, 2011. There was just over a year before that letter was drawn up. The then Chamber agreed to all those austerity measures, which were lost in one go in November 2012 on the sign of Rutte II. Stand on it! History is therefore sometimes important to be able to take the same measure, but I really don't think it's important to take the same approach anymore. Let me come back to the question. I understand what Mr. Knops is saying. It is now important that this Chamber has been raised together. The opposition was willing to think along when that was necessary in October 2013. That was important. Looking back briefly, I am proud that this Chamber has been built in great unity. That's the future. Has it been done enough? A lot has been done within the possibilities there were. Were there any restrictions? There were incredibly many restrictions, including restrictions put in place by this Chamber. If sixteen parties all have wish lists, it is not always possible to get a common denominator out of them. Are we at the beginning of something great? No, not yet, but we're at the beginning of that base that needs to be in order. It will be put in order with the additional resources deployed under Rutte II. We're a long way from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u79	The Rutte I cabinet has been sitting for a very short time. There have indeed been substantial cuts at that time; I do not deny that either. But this cabinet has had four years to get out of that valley, also supported by parties outside the coalition; Mrs Eijsink rightly said so. Then Mrs Eijsink cannot be satisfied with the multiannual result for 2021 that the share of GDP for this purpose, that percentage, has not increased? You have to put that against the statements of Robert Gates, Obama, Trump, and I don't care who. For years they have been calling for more to be done in Europe and therefore in the Netherlands. Then Mrs Eijsink cannot be satisfied with the result, or does she say that this was the most feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u80	It is remarkable that I heard Mr Knops mention the word'satisfaction' twice, because I did not say that word. I would like to stress once again that I am satisfied with the commitment of our people, of the people I have just mentioned. Everyone here is talking about the backbone of Defense, and that's the people. We have also taken a look at myself, because it is decisions that I have taken in the past few years that have given orders to people who have not been easy. The possibilities they had were limited. That is the responsibility of us here and of the government. Several parliamentary debates have been held on this subject in a row. Several governments have taken responsibility for this. So no, I'm not happy. Once again, I can assure Mr Knops that he cannot find the word'satisfaction' anywhere in my text. I am positive about the growing support. This development has been used by the Chamber together. The multiannual plans I would like to return to this point and all the debates we had on this matter would not have been there if we had not been prepared to work together after all the experience with Rutte I. Rutte I was not very good for the Defence Department. We've all been there. Can we please look for a common denominator? I think that is very important for the military and citizens who are listening now. I've got all the election programs right here in front of me. I'm looking for the common points in those programs, because only if you do, you can take steps. I'm not looking for what one has more or less. It's practice what you preach, and if we do that way, then we still have a lot to learn. The people of Defence want to see action, and they do not just want to hear very big words in budget debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'm trying to understand the position of the Labour Party on Defense. Mr Knops asks about these additional investments, as we are used to from the right-wing parties. They're doing a peeing game right now at that point. Mrs Eijsink then refers to the Rutte I cabinet, which has been making substantial cuts. But the SP and the Labour Party didn't disagree with that at the time, did they, Mrs Eijsink? In fact, the PvdA might have wanted to make more savings. What's the line? Is the Labour Party now going to join those right-wing parties for more money for Defence or does it still have its own vision and say: wait a minute with all that muscle language for more weapons, for more money for weapons of war? Didn't the PvdA ever have a much better view on that? Can Mrs Eijsink explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you for the compliments, Mr Van Dijk. I believe that all the parties that are currently participating in the debate are in favour of membership of NATO. The same goes for the SP. It wasn't always like that. Even in the short time I have been here, it was not customary for the SP to support Dutch membership of NATO. Being a member of NATO gives obligations: not being and delivering a freerider where necessary. We in the Netherlands can do that. My party also has as a rule that we are members of NATO, civil where that can be done - and military if it has to. If it's military, we don't walk away from that. And yes, my party also has cuts in the 2010 election programme. I can assure you that they were in it again in 2012. Was that okay? No. It is important to look at what is needed for our membership for the sake of security and peace in the world and for its realization. I would therefore like to point out to Mr Van Dijk that the view of the Labour Party has always been: European defence cooperation. That was already the case in 2007, when the Labour Party issued a plan. I can assure you that nine years later this has been taken over completely. All the proposals contained in it have now been worked out. Everyone embraces it, but in 2007 nobody liked it. There is the involvement of the Labour Party: efficient and sustainable work, in the long term, with more partners and more Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u83	The SP disagrees with the NATO standard. I note that the Labour Party did not comply with that NATO standard either in 2010 and in 2012, when the PvdA cut Defence. Mrs Eijsink now says that she did not agree. That's interesting; we actually didn't hear that at the time, but do I have to see it now that the Labour Party has been running from now on and says from 2016: no, now we're going to comply with the NATO standard? I'd be very sorry to hear that, but is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u84	It is always wonderful to see how words are put in my mouth, because I have not even used the word 'NATO standard' in my four minutes' speaking time. I haven't even used the term "2%." So why don't we just correct that first? I would like to respond to Mr Van Dijk's comment, but I did not use those words. Apparently, that's the way it goes in debates every time. The 2% NATO standard is not sacred in itself. From my point of view, Greece is currently investing 2.2%. Greece is not a partner with which we work everywhere. Greece is not very visible at all with regard to missions. There are countries which achieve 2%, but which deliver much less quantitatively and qualitatively than a number of other countries. Am I in favour of increasing resources? Yes. Am I in favour of an increase to at least 1.43%, Europe's average? Yes. However, we need to look much more closely at which countries we work with and which leading groups we have. We'll do it right. We've been working with the Norwegians, the British and the Germans for years. This cooperation goes far and was also welcomed by the Labour Party. We already came up with proposals on this in 2007. So that's nothing new. This Minister, with her enthusiasm and her commitment, has given a fantastic effect to this. That is what is happening, and that is what we are in favour of. In itself, there is no discussion about this 2%, because in the Dutch amount of 8.7 billion, I believe, there is also 1.1 billion in pensions. It is therefore not manageable, it is not operational and it is not usable. If we pull that off, the Netherlands will be at 7.6 billion. The French have included the whole gendarmerie in their budgets So we can give many more examples. So, yeah, you have to have a standard to work towards. I will continue with the comments made last week in the Foreign Affairs Council on further cooperation within Europe. Is there anything else the Minister can say about that? After all, she was there herself. I have already mentioned the special position of the military. I understand the veteran evaluation is coming to us this year. Of course, caring for the home front is also of great importance to partners and children. I assume that point will be taken up. The spiritual caretakers are very important in the armed forces. I ask the Minister to respond to the question whether their role remains on the same basis, both quantitatively and qualitatively, as agreed. I would like to compliment the firm Strukton for the reserve price, which was received last week by the Secretary-General of Defense. Beautiful moments are those. Reservists are getting an ever better place in the organization. We look forward to further development, which has already been agreed. The implementation of the armed forces with security and craftsmanship: that's where it begins. We started this in 2009, but in 2016 it is disappointing with the implementation of safety and craftsmanship. Could the Minister respond to that? The vision that preceded, actually became a policy plan in September 2013. I've been talking about that for a while. Does the Minister wish to respond again to the multi-annual agreements? How does the Minister see it? That has been the case in this Chamber before. After 15 March, the negotiations for a coalition will take place and we know that the departments are naturally expressing their own wishes. I would like to make a final comment on the list of Finances in May 2013, which includes 22 measures to make use of the cuts for Defence in a number of areas. May I ask the Minister to respond? There are, after all, a number of measures which are totally out of the question. I would like to know how the Minister views this. I'm closing up. Last week, I talked about the Foundation for Unknown Heroes. Defense has over 60,000 unidentified heroes. These are the citizens and the military, but also the people at the home front who support their husband, wife or partner every day. If necessary, they will have to do it for a long time without them. That is what we are considering today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mr. Chairman. In this final discussion of the Defence budget, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation for all the women and men of the Dutch armed forces and the home front. Peace and security are not self-evident. Making a safe world possible and therefore a safe Netherlands requires a continuous effort. The geopolitical developments of recent years, leading to instability and many conflicts close to home and far away, also cause a lot of fear and uncertainty in the Netherlands. Never before was the effect of these conflicts in Europe and in the Dutch villages, neighborhoods and neighborhoods so visible and palpable. The Dutch armed forces make a very important and valuable contribution to peace and security on a daily basis, both nationally and internationally. An important contribution will also be expected from the armed forces in the coming years. It is important for the Labour Party that our armed forces should be able to carry out the tasks that we command the armed forces with good and reliable equipment, with well-trained staff and in a good organisation. That is why the Labour Party is pleased that the restoration of the military's basic capacity, thanks to the intensification of this cabinet, is finally coming into sight and that a further recovery of the armed forces can be achieved. A number of subjects have already been discussed during the WHO, but I would like to discuss them with the Minister. I'll start with employability. Several parts of the armed forces are temporarily unavailable due to delayed maintenance or insufficient training. Many parts will not be in order until 2018 or even in 2022. Much equipment is now limited to use. However, what this "limited" means in concrete terms does not really become clear. The General Court points out that the report on readiness again shows that an intensive deployment of the armed forces for missions has implications for the readiness of the equipment and the skill of the personnel, and hence for employability. Despite the many discussions and repeated questions, the Chamber lacks a good understanding of the effect on the readiness of the equipment and the skill of the staff and the expected impact of a mission on the overall organisation, when deciding on the addition, extension or extension of military missions to date. I therefore ask the Minister why it is not possible to make the consequences of military missions clear and explicit for the personnel and equipment on the front. Now for investment. If Defence, as set out in the 2017 budget, is to be ready in due course, the necessary replacement investments will have to be made. At present, investment needs are greater than the available budget. It's still our concern that at some point it's gonna get really tight. In the legislative consultation we asked the Minister about ways of dealing more flexibly with investment and with the investment budget. According to the Minister, it is not possible to invest more flexibly than is currently the case. Defense makes a new priority in its projects every year, and that's it. That doesn't take away our concerns. The regular postponement of project to subsequent years and therefore also the taking of budget to subsequent years will eventually lead to a bow wave of projects. How will the organization soon deal with this wave if it is not already able to make the replacement and logistics chain work for 100%? The Minister indicated that he would work very closely with the Dutch defence industry at many different levels, in the so-called "golden triangle." The PvdA Group warmly welcomes this, because together you are much better able to find answers to all the challenges of the future. I ask the Minister how much more profit can be gained from this cooperation from the challenges of investment. As a result, of course, technological developments and innovation are indispensable for a modern military force. In the legislative consultation on the material, we already spoke with appreciation about the Strategic Knowledge and Innovation Agenda and about cooperation in the golden triangle on knowledge and innovation. Fortunately, the DOD dares to look ahead and take its responsibility by genuinely involving the knowledge institutions in the development of an effective and forward-looking defence. Our congratulations to this minister for that. Given the current budgets, we understand that the Minister should be cautious, but a long-term perspective is essential for knowledge institutions such as NLR, TNO and MARIN. Will the Minister undertake to put forward concrete proposals for cooperation projects in the forthcoming review of the defence knowledge infrastructure, the HKD, and to provide them with a budget so that these institutes can continue to play their important role? Finally, I would like to talk about currency fluctuations and price adjustments. The PvdA Group has for some time expressed its concern about the negative effects of exchange rate changes and their limited price exemptions on the Defence budget. For this reason, the PvdA Group welcomes the fact that the cabinet has now occasionally allocated EUR 40 million to a fund that can absorb currency fluctuations. Exchange rate defaults must be paid out of this reservation; windfalls should be in favour of this reservation. This seems to be finally paying attention to this serious problem. This is an important step in a long-term problem. At the same time, we wonder to what extent this fund with EUR 40 million is sufficient to cover all the negative effects of currency fluctuations. In fact, in the spring note of earlier this year, there was still a loss of purchasing power of 160 million, partly due to currency fluctuations. That is why I would like a response from the Minister. How does she assess this reservation? Is it enough to absorb all the fluctuations? What happens if there are no windfalls to fill the fund? Then how will the fund be filled? Due to inflation and currency fluctuations, the cost increases in the purchase of equipment appear to be higher than the compensation received by the Defence Department. This does not seem to be sustainable in the long term. The CBS is currently investigating the price development of the specific services and goods that Defence purchases. The Minister expects that this may lead to a defence-specific price index, which can be used in the calculation of the price compensation for Defence. The PvdA Group is committed to clarifying this before next year's elections, so that this cabinet can take care of it. What is the Minister's expectation? I would like to hear whether this can actually be settled during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u86	Before I give the floor to Mr De Roon, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Party for Freedom wants the Netherlands to regain control over its own borders and has a strong military force. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is now showing a different picture. We are hardly able to defend our own territory, our borders are a hole cheese and the armed forces are running on its gums. The PVV therefore wants to see considerable investment in defence in the coming years, and especially in capacities that are of benefit to the Netherlands. More money is not always the solution, the money tap is not the only thing that has to be done. The way in which our armed forces are deployed will also have to be changed. Our scarce defence equipment is now being used up in Mali, as a result of which military training runs into a hundred, and the Royal Marechaussee guards the borders of Greece. The PVV wants our soldiers to be visible again in the Netherlands, at our borders and in our streets. Visibility also means: in uniform across street off duty. We need to get rid of the uniform ban. I ask the Minister to allow the military who want to go down the street in their uniforms. The policy of open borders and the imminent fall of the caliphate do not make it safer in the Netherlands. There is a chance that you will encounter a jihadist with a kalashnikov in an overcrowded train, at Schiphol or elsewhere in the Netherlands. That is, of course, an undesirable confrontation, because there you stand with your suitcase and briefcase. This scenario is becoming more and more real, because there is a danger of a flood of terrorists rolling our way. A flood like we've never seen before warns the FBI. The NCTV came with a similar message on Monday. The break-up of the IS caliphate increases the domestic jihad movement and increases the risk of attacks. An identical story of the German Bundesnachrichtendienst. The terrorists are still disguised as migrants heading our way. In fact, IS trains jihadists specifically for that undercover operation and sends the nephews of Abdeslam laughing at the wake of Europe. So the terrorists are free to go. An attack is a matter of time and there is no border surveillance, at least not enough border surveillance, to do anything about it. That's why the PVV wants the military police to be deployed to keep the borders closed. When is the cabinet going to take that action? An estimated 190 Dutch jihadists are still in Syria and Iraq. They don't sit there to bake sand cookies. IS consists of hardened terrorists committing atrocious acts of terror. So don't let those sadists ever come back to our country again. Keep them out of our borders and leave them in that retarded caliphate. The PVV sees the money in the Defence budget mainly used to stab existing wounds in the Defense Department. Additional money for border surveillance has not been released, the Minister replied to written questions. And that while the Netherlands is not able to permanently guard and secure its own borders, and certainly not for long. That is why I have two questions for the Minister. Why did the Marechaussee get nothing but a slap in the face in the budget? Is the Minister prepared to retrieve the military force from abroad as soon as possible? Exactly a week ago, history was written in the United States with the election of Mr Trump as President. A victory over the establishment and a loud cry for a more national-oriented policy. That's a great result. The fear of this in Europe, when it comes to the defence of our interests in Europe, is immediately aroused. There are all kinds of European politicians who immediately say that this means that there must be a European army. In the past year, the Rutte cabinet has also advocated less non-binding defence cooperation as an EU President. Less Netherlands, more Brussels. Where's this going? Tuesday's Volkskrant stated that it was being examined whether the EU budget could be used for the development and production of defence equipment. I ask the Minister what is true of that. Isn't that just a prelude to an EU defence budget? The PVV sees an increasing number of building blocks for a European army, such as autonomous action, a joint budget and the EU Battlegroups. There are two things: salami tactics and label fraud. Salamitactic means that every time a piece of control over our own army is taken away. Label fraud is what we have experienced with the European Constitution: it is being implemented, but it must not be called that. The European army will soon be realized, but it must not be called that. It gets a different label, but it remains a product for strengthening the EU superstate. The PVV wants the Netherlands to remain sovereign over the course to be sailed with the armed forces. That is why I have two simple questions for the Minister, which I prefer to see answered with yes or no. Firstly, is the Minister prepared to oppose the creation of a European military headquarters and the establishment of an EU defence budget, yes or no? Secondly, is the Minister prepared to speak out strongly against a European defence union, because NATO is and must remain the cornerstone of our security policy? I would also like to receive a yes or no answer. Finally. Given the unrest around us, it's crucial that the Defense Department bites off more. The Marine Study-2005 policy review contains an important recommendation on this subject. It states that the new security situation must be taken into account when acquiring new weapons or replacing old weapons. According to the PVV, we need to focus on the firepower of our Navy. It must be firm, now and in the future. Is the installation of long-range cruise missiles included in the development of the new frigates, which must be taken together with Belgium? Is that what the Minister's gonna do or not? Is the Minister prepared to make clear to the Chamber what the tactical benefits are and what it might cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mr. Chairman. For D66 defence is important, because peace and stability are necessary for the building of democracy. After all, security, democracy and human rights are naturally linked according to D66. In today's world, defense is desperately needed. With Trump's election, everything has slipped into a slippery slope. Whether he will deliver on his populist statements to date will have to be proved, but if he really says what he is doing and does what he is saying, it will have a major impact on, for example, the Atlantic Alliance, the relationship with Russia, the situation in the Middle East and our European external borders. More than ever, the European Union is dependent on itself, proving once again the need for strong European defence. D66 is therefore still in favour of a European military force. We must ensure that we bring our resources and people together effectively. Thinking within national borders alone is not enough to guarantee the safety of the Netherlands; we are simply too small for that. This is also true if Trump's statements do not become a reality, because chaos and instability prevail on the edges of the European Union: ISIS is sowing death and destruction in Syria and Iraq and the Russian bear is growling increasingly. An effective response to this threat is not just in more weapons, according to D66. Diplomacy and development cooperation are at least as important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mrs Belhaj came up very quickly: the European army. It seems as if it is a new crown jewel that can be added to the richly filled crown jewelry box of D66: a European army. Shouldn't it be much more about the means of greater cooperation, that is exactly what the Minister is doing and what her predecessor has done, rather than over views that are unrealistic and cannot be realised if some political conditions are not met? I don't see that happening yet. Why does D66 cling so stubbornly to the European army? I think it should be much more about the means, namely better cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u90	What the CDA calls "neck-starrig," D66 calls "being clear about your vision of the future." Mrs Eijsink also pointed out that she had been discussing this since 2007. Alexander Pechtold had already started this in 2006. What matters is very close to what the PVV indicates. If you choose to work together in Europe, you must at least be clear and transparent about what you are working towards. What people in the Netherlands hate is that there are all kinds of things happening in Brussels, that there are partnerships and that there will be immense cooperation in ten years' time. People will then say: no, this looks like a European military force; when have I, as a Dutchman, had the opportunity and the right to be part of that discussion? That's why D66 chooses to be completely clear about what we want to work towards. Then people will know. Then they can ask questions about it and discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u91	It's obvious. That's right. But it causes much more unrest, because it takes a lot of steps to reach the perspective of the future that D66 outlines. Mr De Roon had a right point when he spoke about the question of sovereignty. When Mrs Belhaj speaks of a European army, she actually says that you are going to take decisions on a different scale. We cannot have both a European army and national decision-making in the parliaments as we now have them. That can't go hand in hand. So be clear, I say to D66. So say that it means that the European Parliament is about to decide on the deployment of our Dutch military. That is almost impossible with this proposal. Does Mrs. Belhaj agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u92	I think that's a little awkward. We say: if the Netherlands wants to cooperate at European level in the field of defence, other countries are more clear about this than record it with each other and tell us what steps you are going to take in the meantime to create a European military force. Mr Knops talks about how to regulate powers and what it means for sovereignty. These are basic issues, but we need to discuss them with each other. Let's start by saying that we strive for it, and let's sum up where exactly we begin. In the end, we will end up with the debate on sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u93	The Labour Party has long been striving for cooperation in Europe. I immediately disappoint Mrs Belhaj, because in 1999 the Labour Party already had a note from Harry van den Bergh. I hear Mrs Belhaj say something about the steps that will be taken. I assume that this is within the overall framework of the steps, because we already have a roadmap for cooperation with different Member States. I am sure Mrs Belhaj knows the comprehensive letter from the Minister of Defence, which contains all the projects in which we work together. What does Mrs Belhaj mean by what she just said? Mrs Belhaj speaks of working together in Europe. When you talk about this, you also have a vision of which countries you want to work with first. I have just mentioned a number of countries with which we have been working well for years. That's about six partner countries. This is about making floor layers; that is what we have discussed here a long time ago. The government does, too. Can Mrs Belhaj mention a number of countries where she says that D66 wants to cooperate more specifically? Can it also say what area it wants to cooperate on? What weapons systems and what training etcetera are we talking about? This must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u94	I will not have a detailed exercise here about which armory should be bought with which country. The Minister has set an excellent example. The Dutch Navy and the Belgian Navy are working together. It's already been deployed. You can formalize that with each other. You can also comment on far-reaching cooperation with Germany, with Luxembourg or with France. So there are a dozen countries you could work with. But it is even more important to say to each other: perhaps we should buy together. That is perhaps the basis on which you can build that cooperation. If you make good agreements about this, then it will come to light which country needs it. Then that may be different from what is decided in Mrs Eijsink's question to specifically mention five countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u95	That's clear. The BeNeSam has been around since 1996. If what Mrs Belhaj is proposing is done, this also means that parliaments sit together in every approach. Suppose the Netherlands replaces the frigates. Then we'll sit together as parliaments. However, it also means that it is important for our further discussion that we cannot challenge everything contained in the party's programmes on security and military power and that one cannot make decisions without consulting a coalition with another. Those are multi-annual plans. You must have the courage to make agreements on this at national level, before you can look at a Member State, a partner, at an international level, who wants to cooperate with us. A country like Germany also consists of Länder. That's what makes it so difficult. How does Mrs Belhaj see that? I ask this out of interest, because the continuing talk about a European army is very old. That's so 2000!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u96	I thought I had just heard a wonderful speech from Mrs Eijsink about how important it is to work together, to look beyond your political colour and to look through the content for what binds you. I think D66 and the PvdA just agree on this. We do not think in terms of all kinds of problems. This is what I am talking about today, and hopefully we will discuss it further next year: say that you want this European cooperation and make it clear what this means for the parliaments in the various countries. I think you'll come a long way. With Mrs Eijsink's statement that this is so 2000 I cannot do much. The point is that it is now 2016. The world has changed considerably. If Mrs Eijsink ignores the developments that have been going on with the Russians for years, if she ignores recent developments in the United States, I find that special.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u97	That calls for a response. What Mrs Belhaj needs to do is look back at what our committee has already achieved on all these points. No one's gonna get past that. Mrs Belhaj presents the European army and European cooperation as a balloon, but all the parties have now come up with plans. I would also like D66 to come up with a detailed plan on this point. I think that's a challenge. Then you can't say: all these weapons systems, we still need to see that. No, you have to come up with a fill-in. That's what this minister did. You gotta have the guts to say that with land X we're gonna buy that and that. That's what we're doing with the Submarine Service. Parliament wants something completely different. We're not gonna get anywhere with it for a while, but that's a fill-in. That's a floor. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u98	Fortunately, Mrs Belhaj is not tempted by the spokeswoman of the PvdA to use this label scam in terms of: working on all the elements that make a European army possible but do not want to name it. In this respect, I very much appreciate the honesty and transparency of the D66 spokesperson. She's very clear. She simply says that her group wants a European army, which requires a lot of steps, but that it wants to take them. In the end, we will get to the question of sovereignty. Does Mrs Belhaj think that the question of sovereignty should only be put to the end? I believe that this question should be put at the beginning. Are you prepared to agree that the Dutch armed forces will no longer be decided in the Netherlands, but perhaps in Berlin, Paris or Brussels? Is that what D66 is supposed to be? Or does D66, like the PVV, say: no, that decision should always stay in the Netherlands? The Netherlands must not be messed up by others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u99	That sovereignty is very important, but for the next five or ten years we will still have a Dutch military force. We have the Dutch armed forces here, but every national parliament in Europe, every European country, does so in its own small way. But we may be able to merge certain budgets. For example, we can buy together. We can come up with a joint strategy for missions that we want to do together. I am not yet concerned about the fear of the PVV that we can no longer guarantee the sovereignty of the Netherlands. It is still too premature to answer yes or no. Let us enter into the conversation and look together at how we can defend ourselves, both in terms of developments in Russia and in terms of developments in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u100	I really don't understand any of this. Mrs Belhaj is now also applying some sort of salami tactic. Be honest and just answer my question. Is Mrs Belhaj ultimately prepared to opt for the final picture, in which it is decided not by and in the Netherlands about the use of our armed forces and the involvement of our country in a war, but by others in other capitals in Europe? Is that what you want, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u101	I think that question is too premature. Not at the moment. At the moment, D66 wants a collaboration that is explicit and where you clearly say to the Dutch: we combine these budgets. A cooperation where you say clearly: we are striving for a common strategy. A collaboration where you clearly tell how you see it in front of you, whether it's about planning or exercises. Your question may not be finally answered for another ten or fifteen years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u103	We need to get the DOD in order. The Minister has been at the helm for four years now, so it's time to take stock. Despite the fact that for the fourth year in a row, Defense is getting extra money, there are still a lot of problems. The Minister is transparent about the bottlenecks and we welcome this. Good steps have been taken, but after these four years the conclusion is that the readiness, practicability and employability of equipment and personnel have declined rather than increased. Of course extra money helps. D66 also wants to invest in Defence and grow to the European average, but the Court consistently points out that the problems in Defence are not only financial in nature. The problem with business management is structural. Can the Minister respond to this? What would she like to give her successor? In today's shaky world order, it is necessary to prepare ourselves for tomorrow's challenge. So it is not just a question of overcoming problems from the past; we must look forward. That is why I have a number of proposals. Firstly, work on a European military force, just now, as I have just explained. On Monday, the intention was again expressed for more cooperation, but steps must also be taken. France and Germany are already ready for this, as are the Liberal partners in the European ALDE Group. Can the Minister present a robust and convincing view on how we can take major steps alongside small steps, given the urgency of cooperation in the short term? Second. For years there has been less investment than intended and there has been a delay in replacing equipment. This is going to be a huge problem for the continuing power of the armed forces in the near future. I would like to receive a response and also an explanation of the consequences of these deferred investments. Then I come to the focus on cyber. The battle is also being fought today on the digital battlefield. The US is way ahead of us, like China, and Russia uses this weapon frequently. Why is cyber barely getting anything, and why is it so easy to appoint cyber-reservists? D66 wants to invest €1 billion in innovation in the coming government period. Innovation is good for our economy, provides jobs and leads to solutions to the big questions of our time. In short, innovation brings the world forward. There is also a great need for this in the defence sector. D66 wants businesses, together with knowledge institutions and government, to invent innovative products that can help Defense move forward. But D66 also expects the minister himself to catch up. There is a beautiful strategic knowledge and innovation agenda for the coming years. Is it feasible with the minimum budget that Defense makes available? The European agreement is 2% of the budget, and the Netherlands is not even 1%. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. This morning, there was some disturbing news in the newspapers about our marshalssee. I am deeply concerned about the capacity of the military police. Due to the increasing threat of terror, the marechaussee is frequently used for the safety of the Netherlands: at Schiphol, in the port of Rotterdam, for the surveillance and security of many buildings in the Netherlands and during many missions. In short, the demand is high. Despite repeated requests from the Chamber to put the capacity in order at the military level, I see the opposite happening in the defence budget. In fact, the number of people working at the Marechaussee is falling and the filling of the workforce is decreasing. Of the extra money that Defense is getting this year, net but about 2 million goes to the military. In fact, in the longer term, so until 2021, the budget is going down slightly. Can the Minister explain this? Then I come to a completely different point, which also needs to be changed with regard to D66. For years, the Defense Department has been struggling with serious shortages. Everyone knows that. Men are working overtime and some even had to go to court to get their commute reimbursed. At the same time, the highest generals are permanently entitled to a service car with driver and a large pool is available for the ranks below. This costs millions a year. Don't you think it's time we put a stop to that? I'm asking the Minister for a response. I come to my final point. When you use military forces, it is important that you are accountable for this transparently and intelligibly. This fits with the mature democracy we have here in the Netherlands. That must also be done to the citizens of the countries in which you are militaryly active. So far this has been done far too little by the Netherlands. In the anti-IS coalition, for example, research shows that even countries like Saudi Arabia give more information about their military actions. Countries like Canada, the US, the UK and France are doing much better. Given the presence of social media, it has become even more important for the government to communicate actively and transparently. It's part of a trustworthy government. This is the only way to gain confidence and prevent a false story from being told. Is the Minister prepared to improve this by taking best practices from partners that are much more transparent in the anti-IS coalition? Is she willing to inform more and better about where and when air strikes have been carried out in the weekly reports on the Dutch deployment? Is it prepared to consider in a broad sense how to be informed about the number of deaths after a mission, including civilian casualties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u104	I have heard Mrs Belhaj talk fairly positively about the steps taken in the field of European and international cooperation. I share that with Mrs Belhaj wholeheartedly, but does she agree with me that there is something half-hearted in that too? On the one hand, there are statements such as: the European Union should be able to act autonomously wherever and whenever necessary. It's in the Council's proper statement. On the other hand, as soon as one follow-up question is asked about command structures or about growing into a European army, it is not given at home and the brakes are lifted immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u105	We just had that little debate. Of course, it is easy to focus only on these themes, but we are actually in favour of starting with the low-hanging fruit, with something that is very easy, with what the Minister communicates every time in very small steps. Make that one story and at least communicate that the Netherlands must strive for a clear European cooperation, in which you jointly do the purchasing, in which you make agreements about joint missions, in which you will argue for equal guidelines for the purchase of equipment. That would be a huge step already. In these guidelines you can also include variants of how you want to finally organize the command structure. I don't think that's complicated. I don't want to tell you what kind of command structure it must be. I think it is important that we discuss this with each other and come to a certain conclusion on what is sensible. Unfortunately, D66 does not yet determine by majority what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u106	That still sounds a little cautious to me. I kind of think of it as a very big pink elephant. This is exactly the point where you need to start a serious discussion on how national sovereignty relates to the tactical possibilities of being deployable quickly and effectively. Could D66 perhaps work with us to get that discussion on the agenda more prominently? That is precisely the pink elephant for which the VVD, the CDA and the PVV run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u107	That was a comment rather than a question. Mrs Belhaj, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u108	An offer to work together I will always answer yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u109	There's an election coming up. Then parties get a chance to profile themselves. I also think it is brave of D66 to say that we want to go to a European army. Clear language. But when Mrs Belhaj gets questions about that, she answers it with a very fuzzy story. Why doesn't she just say, like Verhofstadt: yes, we want to get rid of the national armies, we want to go to a European army, so that we decide where to fight in Brussels? That's what you want, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u110	Well, I think you can do both. You can have and keep your own Dutch military force, if you are going to have that discussion for another ten years, and at the same time, as Mogherini points out and wants to present an implementation plan, make agreements with the European countries on how to organise an intensive cooperation. I don't think it has to bite each other at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mrs. Belhaj is all about the hot stuff all the time. If it were to stand up for its position on the need for a European army, it would also have to admit that sovereignty would be over. But Mrs. Belhaj is running away from that. Why doesn't she stand for that, like Verhofstadt? He says, "Get rid of all the national armed forces." He says: in Brussels, we are going to decide where we are going to go to war. If Mrs Belhaj now recognises this, she has a clear position. If she nuances that again, yes, then the whole story goes away and then it's not very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u112	That is a conclusion of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mrs Belhaj talks about European cooperation. The Netherlands is one of the Member States. We can all think of it, but that's not enough. Moreover, all parties in the Netherlands must agree on this together. Anyway, that's just a simple process compared to the whole. Which colleagues from which countries has Mrs Belhaj discussed plans with? When we talk to colleagues in NATO, I do not hear that. Mrs Belhaj side by side said that the French and the Germans already want it. I'm curious if Mrs. Belhaj already has a plan in mind. In her view, are there any Member States where all the parliamentarians in Parliament feel the same? Then perhaps we have taken a very small step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u114	I feel like this is a repeat of moves. I think I have just answered such a question. I tried to do that as kindly as possible. Why does the PvdA always think in impossibilities instead of in the possibilities that bind us? In my view, it is already beginning to be agreed on how to create a joint directive on the purchase of equipment. I have already explained that these can be different countries. I can now mention a club from Europe, but Mrs Eijsink will say: yes, but none of that can be done now. I don't think that's necessary. I have just told her, in a compliment through the Minister, that. I have said that at the moment there are wonderful examples, with the Germans, with the Belgians. So I do not really understand why Mrs Eijsink is asking this question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u115	It will be entirely up to me that I do not understand much of it; I admit that immediately. But perhaps Mrs Belhaj can be a little clearer. The Chamber's been working on this for years. Various parties work together, sometimes complementary, sometimes offensive. I'm gonna say the same thing, because you're gonna get somewhere. Then it is important to develop examples with each other in which this cooperation is possible. It is not for nothing that colleagues have been members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for many years, and not for nothing that they go to interparliamentary conferences. That's where we develop our ideas together. I'm trying to do it in addition and definitely not attacking. We've been doing that in the Chamber for a long time. However, it is necessary to learn some ideas from each other that can actually be worked out. I feel that I have been thinking of opportunities for years, not difficulties, as many colleagues think of opportunities and not difficulties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u116	I've been Secretary of Defense for about nine months now. In those nine months I have heard more often: yes, but we have already discussed this with each other a long time ago. I think I made it clear once during a debate that I can see that absolutely when I look back and when I read the documents. But of course there is nothing to stop me from asking Mrs Eijsink: if you have been talking about it for so many years, what have you achieved? So what's the result? Unfortunately, I have had to put this back before. You can ask me to do this. However, if you say very clearly in your speech that you have been working on it for a very long time, I say: let us look at the result. It's 2016. What do you think you have achieved in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u117	This is entrapment. Mrs Eijsink may respond briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u118	I would like to thank Mrs Belhaj for this discussion. I have been thinking for years about possibilities, together with colleagues, without being too much about 'I'. This is more about "we." There's a letter from six months ago. There's everything Mrs. Belhaj says right there. If I may say so, it would be nice if colleagues with far-reaching proposals would give some substance to that. It's called working together, and it's called complementing each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u119	I conclude by saying that Mrs Eijsink has made a wonderful plea in which she said that cooperation is necessary in this area. I look forward to hearing more about how we can achieve this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u120	Mr. Chairman. Under this minister there has been a change in the downward line in the Defence budget. She has fought for this, but also a number of constructive opposition parties have done so, including the SGP, D66 and my own party. The percentage of the gross domestic product of the Defence budget has been halved over the past 25 years. That's shocking to see. After the economic crisis of 2008, Defence was quite a post where without too much social protest you could cut down, it turned out. We have now reached a rate of 1.1 per cent of gross domestic product, while the NATO standard is, as we know, 2. The events on the world stage in recent years also give every reason to use that turn upwards. I refer to the tensions with Russia on the eastern border of NATO, IS and so on. The threats are known. But this change has come a little late, especially when the Minister says that it is even difficult to defend his own territory. Because, according to her, there are limitations in readiness. What restrictions are those exactly? The Court of Auditors speaks of an unsatisfied exchange that draws Defence on its own. According to the Court, the imbalance between ambitions and resources is even structural. This situation must therefore be brought to an end, according to the Christian Union. In addition to the 300 million that the cabinet has already made available, we want more money: 200 million to be added; we do so by means of an amendment. This is urgently needed if you want to return to the European NATO average, which is about 1.43%. Well, then you're gonna have to go up on money by now. We should actually do that in 500 million steps. Hence the extra 200 million; with the sums of the cabinet you get to 500 million. The election of Donald Trump in America gives us every reason to do so. He said, "America First." Europe must pay much more for its own defence. We know that America is currently paying 71% of the NATO budget. It is therefore very real that the Chamber is asking for this. As long as that great turn-up is not yet the case, we need to look more closely at the missions we have. The Court of Auditors states the same thing. Does that have any impact on the ongoing missions and on new missions, or on the extension of existing missions? On the mission in Mali, the Minister said that the Netherlands can no longer afford air support; this must be carried out by another country. In the corridors there is talk of German air support from our men and women in Mali. Can the Minister say anything about that? Has she now been given the assurance of the Germans and thus of the German Parliament that these military helicopters will be there? In this light, I would ask the Minister to investigate the consequences of our missions for the preparation of the entire defence apparatus. How are we supposed to eat that device? We have often talked about this in the past, but it is good to get that insightful. Questions have already been asked to the Court of Auditors; perhaps we should repeat them. I'm asking the Minister here. Does it see opportunities for the Defence Device to contribute to missions in other, more innovative ways, for example by increasing and deploying cyber security expertise? I told you, NATO is under pressure, there are several threats. But they can also come from inside. When we look at Turkey, I have just understood that Mrs Piri, European rapporteur for the European Parliament, has been refused access to Turkish territory. That's a bizarre thing. We also see an increase in internal repression in Turkey, which is threatened with the reintroduction of the death penalty in Turkey, but also that Turkey is actually attacking our allies in Syria and Iraq, militias that we support. Think of the Kurds, but also the Arab and Christian militias, who are doing very effective work towards ISIS. I also call for attention to be paid to the home front. The home front check came on the initiative of the Christian Union. This shows that a third of the partners still experience a high degree of stress during the broadcast. 11% of the personnel deployed indicate that they are experiencing a serious problem. That's significant. Much of this problem is inherent in broadcasting. I realize that very well. That's inevitable. What possibilities does the Minister see to better serve the home front? I am thinking in particular of opportunities for better communication. There has already been talk of the AOW-hole. Motions have been tabled on this subject, and I understand that an amendment has been tabled. We await the Minister's response to that. As a Chamber, we still have opportunities to carry out repair work on this. I am thinking of Mr Knops' motion. Finally, a word about mental care. This service, too, has had to do with the reorganisation and reduction, as has the rest of the Defense Department. The principle that has been respected in this reorganisation is understandable. It now links the number of mental caregivers to the number of compartments within the armed forces. Now that a new unit is being set up at the Royal Marechaussee, I would like to ask the Minister if, if there is more room in the Defense Department, she would also like to look at the finances of those mental caregivers, especially with that new high-risk security unit at the Royal Marechaussee. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u121	I hear a very nice speech from Mr Voordewind, but there is one issue that is completely bypassed and that is that of European cooperation. I find that very strange. Is Mr Voordewind seriously of the opinion that the adage of defending one's own territory on that stamp on the world is a real perspective, or does he agree with me that it has actually been proved in the Second World War that this is not effective in the light of the technological development of warfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u122	I have a very clear answer to that. If European cooperation is possible, we must do so. This can indeed bring added value, but we say no to a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u123	This is an interesting discussion that is very much about that middle between doing it yourself, the palissade of the PVV, the village of Asterix, versus that European army. I find it extraordinary that the Christian Union does not really take a position in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u124	I have just explained that we are in favour of European cooperation wherever possible. In fact, we are making various proposals in this respect in our electoral programme. But I hope that GroenLinks too will retain sovereignty and decision-making power when you employ your own people and weigh the risk in this respect, even in the future. If GroenLinks is in favour of a European army, then we have to fear that that sovereignty of the Netherlands Member State will really disappear. I hope GroenLinks doesn't want to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-5.u125	I'm suspending for lunch now. Immediately after lunch, we keep the arrangements of work. Then we will proceed with the discussion of the defence budget.
