ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a compliment. Then we've already had that. This cabinet looks like it's gonna sit out the whole drive. Then Rutte II is the first government after Kok I to reach the finish line. And that with a coalition which, on the basis of promises made by the electoral process, was not in fact able to do so, and which, here in this Chamber, only knew a masculinity in advance. Over and over again, the Prime Minister managed to seduce him like a true political Casanova groups. Such an achievement is special and proves craftsmanship. I congratulate him on that. I thank him and all his colleagues in the cabinet for all their efforts. In spite of all this commitment: this cabinet policy was not ours and it is not ours, with this last budget on the table. I take it that I do not surprise the Prime Minister with this conclusion at the beginning of my speech. He knows our view that what his cabinet does is usually bad for society in practice. I'm sure he feels differently about that. That is why for four years we have consistently opposed his coalition, even in this house. For that coalition, VVD and the PvdA of the Deputy Prime Minister have chosen sámen. But now love seems to be over. After four years of close cooperation, you have recently heard few warm words about each other and each other's future plans. This leads to the paradoxical claim that government policy is a success, but that after 15 March everything has to be different. Much more liberal, says the VVD. Much more social, the PvdA says. Instead of Rutte and Asscher it is now Rutte against Asscher. Back in the day it was called "the great lie." You could only divorce if one of the two spouses declared to have gone strange. Now VVD and PvdA want to break up because they say after March 15 they want to go weird. But is that true? Or is that the new big lie? I recently heard the Prime Minister say in his Thorbecke lecture entitled The Prime Minister: a building in the house of Thorbecke that he is now attached to his Tower. That is understandable, even though I do not agree with the Wiegelian cigar smell, which the Prime Minister believes is still in the lambrisation. But in a country in which flex has become a norm by his cabinet, the Prime Minister is difficult to grant himself a permanent residence permit for the Tower. And it was the Prime Minister who reminded us in his lecture of the dry observation of his predecessor Piet de Jong that, over time, every Prime Minister disappears from the scene. To reassure the Prime Minister: the portraits of Thorbecke and Cort van der Linden, which he hung up in the Tower, can just hang on, even when he leaves. Both of them have never paid a contribution to the VVD and are therefore all of us. Thanks to Thorbecke we got our parliamentary system, thanks to Cort van der Linden our parliamentary democracy. Strangely enough, the portraits of both great statesmen, who understood and appreciated the signs of their time, are missing here in our own home. We have to do something about it. Left and right beside the portrait of the one who is with us, they would certainly not be wrong. In more than a year, on 12 December, our parliamentary democracy will be based on universal suffrage and proportional representation, 100 years. Then it is a century ago that the renewed Constitution of 1917 was solemnly proclaimed from the stairs of the country's town halls. I hope that's what we're celebrating. I see that I have been speaking for 21 minutes. Sometimes I'm long out of dust, but something's not right about this. I understand now that it's collapsing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u2	It indicates, Mr Kox, that you do not stand here often!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u3	That's why it's nice to have me there once. Group chairmen have a very limited right to speak in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u4	This new equipment has been there since last summer, so now a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u5	How sporty of you to stop the time for my blunder in this way not at the expense of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u6	But I'm also shutting down the clock because Mr De Graaf is interrupting, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u7	Okay, too much sympathy should never be attributed to yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u8	I did it again! I was wondering if Mr. Kox would not rather commemorate 1922 than 1917. Then the women also got the right to vote. Doesn't he think it's better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u9	I'm from Brabant, so I've always found a reason for a party. 1922 could be, but also 1918, because then we went to vote for the first time. But in 1917, as Mrs Barth made clear to us, the constitutional obstacle to women's right to vote was lifted. That was quite a step back then, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u10	But I thought in 1917 women were given the right to stand as a candidate and to vote in 1919, and not in 1922.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u11	But at least we can see that it was a sensible policy of these men to give women the right to vote. For though men and women are equal, I am convinced that women are a little more sensible than men. We can discuss this later. I hope that I can get Mrs Barth and Mr De Graaf and everyone else to join me in calling for us to celebrate the 100-year anniversary of our democracy, especially now that democracy is under pressure in all kinds of ways. Democracy was not given by God, but made by man. We ourselves form the guarantee certificate and determine its validity. And we're responsible for the maintenance ourselves. The establishment of the state committee requested by this Chamber, which is going to examine our parliamentary democracy, fits well with the hundredth anniversary. We heard Minister Plasterk nicely that he is well and well again with us in Buitenhof talking freely about what he had invented for that committee. But I ask the Prime Minister to confirm that we agree here: Parliament initiates, facilitates the government. When will the State Commission start and how will it be assembled? We're not gonna get there with just a state commission. There is a fundamental breach of confidence between politics and the public in our country and there is a need to restore it. For a lot of people, the connection has been broken between themselves at home and us in The Hague. Political engagement is no longer a means of change and improvement for them, but a waste of time. You hear them say, "They just do what they want; they don't see us standing." In my group's view, the ideological wind that has been blowing through our society for more than a quarter of a century and which has been sparked by a large part of politics, is the fault of that waning confidence. The ideology of neoliberalism, in which everything is declared true from value to value. What do you have to say about politics, which should be in the public interest, calling for everyone to go for their own opportunities? Why should you worry about things like cooperation and solidarity, in a society where profits go above well-being, where market forces prevail and cooperation is served, where care, education, the environment, nature and culture are called cost items instead of foundations under a sustainable society? Why should you act as a responsible citizen when politics treats you as a calculating consumer and makes laws that almost force you to put your self-interest first? The Millions note tells us on the basis of charts and tables that the Netherlands has come out of the crisis and that it is much better than when this cabinet took office. Our national income is rising, public debt is falling, fiscal deficits are shrinking and economic growth is increasing. The Millions note welcomes the fact that government policy, based on orderly state finances, fair sharing and recovery of growth, is a great success and that important issues such as social security, care and education are now secured for our children and grandchildren. As I said to Mrs Barth, that's quite a pretence. It's nicely put, but whoever believes it gets a bike, I sigh. All that figure reminds of Benjamin Disraeli's statement about "lies, damned lies and statistics." After all, none of these positivo statistics explains why in the real world so many people are going so badly and the confidence in the future is so low. The Netherlands has re-established itself, welcomes the budget, but in the real world a lot of people are being deprived of solid land, especially by the government policy of recent years. Many economists are now telling us: if we had cut back, we would have grown more and we would have had less inequality in this country. If we had invested well, our future would have been a lot more secure. Hundreds of thousands of Dutch people have lost their jobs unnecessarily, because the government intervenes too hard to reduce costs. It is because of this cabinet that economic growth has fallen behind us and we still have as many unemployed people as we did at the time in this cabinet. The number of people with problematic debts has increased during this cabinet period. In the meantime, one in five households has to do with this. Isn't that what the Prime Minister's got to worry about? The number of children growing up in poverty remains unacceptable. The public sector is fragmented. Many feel robbed, especially when they see how those who were doing well have gotten better under this cabinet. The richest 1% of the Netherlands now owns a quarter of all assets. Before the crisis, "only" was a large 20%. This government does not give elderly people, people with disabilities and chronically ill the attention they need. She's putting our college kids in debt. She makes permanent jobs disappear and flex jobs advance. She's letting gas profits prevail over safety. She taxes housing corporations, thus hinders the construction of affordable homes and allows rents to rise out of the pan. And take the health care system. At the time of its introduction, the PvdA voted against this Chamber, but with the support of the same PvdA, it has allowed the system of healthcare based on competition and market forces to flourish. That is why it is now more expensive, more bureaucratic and less accessible. The own risk, which is bizarrely fined for illness, has risen to €385. Who remembers our Prime Minister when he promised by heart in 2012 that it wouldn't happen if he became the boss again? Now the PvdA says that market forces and their own risks must be removed. Other parties also believe that the risk should be reduced or even completely eliminated. That is why I propose that this Chamber instructs the Cabinet at least to examine how the budget of Public Health can be adjusted to substantially reduce its own risk as from 2017. It will be clear that my group is calling for the health budget to be dealt with. Pressure from this room helps, we know by now. In the present budget, after years of pressing, above all, a majority of this Chamber, substantial more money is finally being made available for Security and Justice. Several motions have been adopted by this Chamber in order to reduce the heavy pressure on the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, justice and legal aid and thus not to lower the rule of law. Under our pressure, the cabinet has gone down the bend. I congratulate this whole Chamber on its perseverance on this point. We should probably do more than that. Following the latest reports on the problems of the national police, I would like to suggest to this Chamber that we consider whether we should conduct a second parliamentary inquiry into the establishment and implementation of the law on national police. In recent years, against the wishes of a large part of the population, this cabinet has been a good guide to the European Commission. Our government became the crazy stallion of Europe. The PvdA and the VVD bear a great responsibility for undermining confidence in European cooperation. What was once a beacon for peace, security and progress is now being transformed by the European Commission into the most competitive market in the world, already competing with other global players, if it can through far-reaching free trade agreements, if it has to race to the bottom competition, tough economic sanctions, sneak tax constructions and perhaps even with its own army. How far does it go from what was proposed here in The Hague in 1948, at the famous Hague Congress, by the fine fleur of politics in Europe? They dared to make inspiring plans for fair and far-reaching European cooperation to prevent new wars, to protect human rights throughout Europe and to promote economic and social progress. Now the reverse is happening, and I find that deeply sad. Like many of us, I was invited to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Treaty named after that beautiful city at the beginning of December in Maastricht. I like to party, but there's nothing to celebrate. In Maastricht, I am sure that European cooperation has taken the completely wrong turn. Driving on the wrong road only takes us further from home. If we are to save European cooperation, we will have to change it, with less Brussels and more national control and, above all, greater involvement of our citizens. I believe that this can be done, but we do not have much time left, since xenophobic nationalism is shamelessly presenting itself as a beckoning perspective throughout Europe. I am looking forward to the Prime Minister's appeal to us all because of the Ukraine Treaty. He wants us to say yes to where the people have said no because of 'the national interest'. What he called only "beautiful trade" before the referendum, he now suddenly calls "geopolitics of nature" and "bigger than the Netherlands." Before the referendum, the Prime Minister laughed away Jean-Claude Juncker's transparent doom thinking in his familiar way, but now he even surpasses Junckers with the end of European unity. Mr. Prime Minister, a pastor would say you're turning and you're not being honest. You shouldn't want that. The people there, in Ukraine, and here in the Netherlands, are not doing anything about it, and European cooperation for peace and security is certainly not doing anything about it. I assume that the Prime Minister has taken note of the public record since Sunday of the possessions of Ukrainian politicians and administrators to land, buildings, businesses, dollars, euros, Rolexes and other luxury prullaria. They swim in the money, which cannot come from their salary, while the population dwindles in poverty and watch as the rich political class enriches. In the meantime, 30% of Ukrainians want to leave the country. As the country bleeds out economically and the civil war continues, the politicians are pounding their pockets and plundering the oligarchs. Those who fought against endemic corruption three years ago in the Maidan Square and elsewhere in the city are again offended. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister to these last revealing reports from Ukraine. As has been said, the indignation in Ukraine is enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u12	Mr Kox is also actually making a number of good arguments for this cooperation with Ukraine in the fight against corruption and strengthening the rule of law. I think that the reform-minded people are very keen on getting that support from the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u13	I am very much in favour of us doing everything we can to help Ukraine get rid of this endemic corruption, for without it there is actually no progress possible; that is what every international supervisor notes. The problem is that nothing is being done about this association agreement. In Ukraine, a large number of people are now employed by the Council of Europe, particularly in this area, to address legislation and, above all, to promote compliance and implementation of legislation. That method is less sexy and less striking, but I find it much more efficient to build real walls against corruption step by step in Ukraine. Mrs Strik will also have seen the reports on how shameful the entire political elite is now known as pocket fillers. There is almost no politician in the Ukrainian Parliament or in the Ukrainian government who does not have half a million or a half in cash. The governor of the central bank, I believe, has 1.5 million dollars and euros in his pocket because he doesn't trust it with the central bank. The head of the tax administration has similar amounts. Tackling corruption is extremely important. I've been in that country a number of times. I hope to return to the Council of Europe in the near future, particularly with regard to this point: how can we organise real guarantees against corruption? But this association agreement, which mentions corruption in Article 22 (2) (d), is not going to happen. If I may say one more sentence: the Prime Minister in his letter proposes that we now say yes if the other Member States agree that corruption becomes the core of this treaty. I think that is a very good idea, but then you have to make Article 22 (2) (d) something else, because corruption is not mentioned anywhere else in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u14	I agree with Mr Kox that we need to cooperate as much as possible, including with the Council of Europe, precisely to support citizens in Ukraine in their desire to reform and to live in a rule of law. I believe that the association agreement provides a basis for this. On this basis, the European Union can, even if there is more pressure from the Member States, pay even more attention to it. But if Mr Kox says 'don't ratify', then you don't have that basis either. Then it will only be more difficult to do a hand-out to the people in Ukraine who can really do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u15	The basis is already in the treaties and in the conventions that Ukraine has signed as a Member State of the Council of Europe. He doesn't live up to it. That base is already there. The problem is that the whole political class is not able to talk about "left to right" in Ukraine, because there is actually only right... is part of corruption. This is also evident from today's reports and yesterday's reports in the Ukrainian media. The president has 104 companies, of which a large number are in Russia. He's got 26 million in his bank account. He's got his house full of cash. We can hope that these people will tackle corruption, but they live off corruption. If the ratification of the Netherlands does not go ahead, I think that the shock of that, and there will be no doubt about it, will give some young people in Ukraine the conviction that they need to get rid of the corrupt regime that is in power there right now, I hope that they will make their country a bit of a civilised rule of law. I'm not making this up myself. Read the Ukrainian press today and yesterday. The Ukrainian media are very hard on what they have now seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u16	Finally. I think that the young people in Ukraine have long and wide been convinced that they need to get rid of that. I would like to support them in this and I would like to use all the instruments to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u17	Me too. So if the Association Agreement were an instrument to tackle corruption in Ukraine, I would never have acted against it. I would have been the most in favour of it. But I am very convinced that this association agreement, the EU's most far-reaching association agreement, is not a solution for Ukraine but a problem for it. That's what I thought when we dealt with the law here in this room. I still think so. I also think that the statement by the Dutch people that they do not want this treaty should be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u18	I have a very small question after that. Is the fact that such a list is now available on the Internet, on which all those dignitaries have declared their possessions and on which the press and the people can shoot, not in themselves a very large contribution to combating corruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u19	That was the expectation in Ukraine. The list was requested by the IMF because the IMF also knows how deep and endemic corruption is in Ukraine. But the cynical comments now, especially in the Ukrainian press, are: what is this now, now they have all said how much cash they have in their homes, how little money they dare to put on Ukrainian banks, how many possessions they have abroad, that all these men have Rolexes and more of those watches and that they have capital, but isn't this list the legitimacy of having all these things? I hope that at least from now on the IMF will say: you cannot have earned this money with your work, because the salaries for politicians and administrators are very low in Ukraine, so you must have it from somewhere else. Everyone knows where that "somewhere else" starts. It has been proposed by the IMF. At the moment, everyone in Ukraine is quite cynical, because they think it can also be an ID on all that stolen money. But let's hope it's a contribution to fighting corruption. As I said to Mrs Strik, I am very much in favour of tackling corruption in Ukraine, because that is the only chance for ordinary people to live in an ordinary country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u20	I agree with Mr Kox that the outcome of the referendum on 6 April is heavy and must therefore be weighed heavily. Mr Kox has just explained why he voted against the adoption law at the time, and that is also his right. Does he think that there was a decision on 6 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u21	No. On 6 April, in a referendum, which was made possible by this Chamber and by the other Chamber, the decision was taken that 61% of the voters who emerged said 'no'. You can say that that decision has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u22	But the democratic decision has not been taken that the treaty should not be ratified? I agree with Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u23	It's a democratic decision. In the referendum law, we have also written down what should then be done. It is therefore a decision on the basis of which action is to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u24	I know Mr. Kox. I am thinking again of the small debate we had before lunch on the courtesy of the debate in both Chambers. Does Mr Kox think that parties who do not say that there should be an automatic withdrawal law are acting contrary to democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u25	No. Those who have said before or after the referendum that the result of the referendum must lead to a repeal law and those who do not now play with democracy. They have spoken before or after the referendum in the direction of the electorate and are now acting counter-productively. But Mr De Graaf's party has always said: we are in favour of the treaty, we respect the referendum and we have our own position. Well, that's excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u26	Finally. I ask this, of course, because Mr Kox's political leader, in a tweet, literally says that parties who are now "jumping into Rutte's lap" betrayed democracy. In view of Mr Kox's generosity, I ask him: does he take this decision or does he renounce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u27	I believe that Emile Roemer is referring to those parties who said before or after the referendum that they would respect the outcome of the referendum in the sense that they wanted to have a repeal law, but who now put their hats back on and jump on the Prime Minister's lap. I wouldn't do that myself; I like him, but I don't go that far. I think it's pronounced there. Parties who have always said that they reserve the freedom to choose their own position can now also do and let go of what they want. By the way, I'm in charge of my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u28	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u29	I hope that Mr Kox is a little consistent in the way he wants to talk about the parliamentary debate. In the tweet "It's only 140 characters, of course, but nevertheless "Mr. Roemer's" says literally: "Whether you were for or against it. You don't ignore a democratic decision. Parties now jumping on Rutte's lap betray democracy." I hope that Mr Kox will be able to distance himself from that last point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u30	No, I am not abandoning it, because I explained to Mr De Graaf the context of that statement. Mr De Graaf knows that, too. With a 140-letter pronunciation, everyone has to be careful, but if you're going to explain it and point it out, you also have to include the context. Mr. De Graaf knows him just like I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u31	Mr De Graaf, all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u32	Of course, it's about the words... betraying democracy. I think it is perfectly right for Mr Kox in this Chamber to comment on the sharpness of words, especially if they have an element of betrayal, treason or betrayal of democracy. His political leader does the same thing and he doesn't say anything about it. In fact, he's defending it. I think that's a little weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u33	Sometimes you have to do something, Mr de Graaf, but now you're putting the pre-pause debate on insulting entire population groups in the same way as a firm statement on the behaviour of us as political parties. You know that's like comparing apples to pears. But you may, because as I said, much may be said in this house. The previous General Reviews were dominated by the seemingly sudden influx of refugees. The PVV pleaded for a fence around the Netherlands and demanded that no more refugee would enter, not even if it were Jesus Christ himself. The fence has arrived, although not between the Zwin and the Vaalserberg, as the PVV wants, but at the external borders of the European Union. But it does say so. The refugees stay away again and the government speaks of success. But the Mediterranean, which played a leading role in the history of our civilisation, has become a deadly field where people drown daily while looking for their modest, small share in the many fruits of that civilization. We are pleased that natural disasters such as the earthquakes in Italy are causing relatively few casualties, but we must be ashamed that this year 3,740 people drowned in the Mediterranean Sea because of this man-made disaster. In exchange for billions, Turkey currently leaves virtually no refugees to EU countries. That, too, is what our government calls a success. But our government, with the European Union, is apparently so scared that President Erdogan is calling off the refugee deal, that she is constantly looking away from that same Turkey, that a failed coup shamelessly abused to fire tens of thousands of officials and teachers, to lock up thousands of people, to ban TV channels and newspapers, to bomb his Kurdish population, to arrest journalists and to take away MPs' immunity. What, I ask the Prime Minister, have the people of Turkey wronged us to be left to their fate? When will the Turkish cabinet firmly address its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe and as a signatory to the binding European Convention on Human Rights? Wars are court suppliers of refugees. In many wars that drive people away from home and fire, we are unfortunately involved, either directly or through our allies. This reduces the possibilities for better deployment of diplomatic skills. I think that's a shame. The Netherlands is better and stronger as a peace broker than as a war party. That is why we should make our constitutional mandate to promote the international legal order top priority in our foreign policy. Instead of going along with the construction of a new Cold War, we should focus with all our strength on restoring normal international relations. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. The motto of this cabinet was 'building bridges', but in recent years bridges have mainly been picked up. This cabinet has done too much for few and too little for many and thus divided society rather than healed. The current budget does not correct that policy but continues it, even in the last year of Rutte II. As you can see, we cannot agree to this. Finally. Those who have a lot of criticism should also be prepared to do it differently and better. I will not reveal a secret when I say that my party will soon like to dominate - provided there is something to govern. We already run in half of all provinces, in half of the large municipalities and in four of the six largest cities. And I like that. In the direction of Mrs Faber, I would like to say the following. It also likes Amsterdam, and as you know, Amsterdam has been declared the second socialist city in the Netherlands, under the leadership of an alderman of the SP. We have the plague that Westland is ahead of us, but Amsterdam is the second socialest city in the country. I'd be proud of it. I am proud of it and I am very pleased that a former colleague of ours, Arjan Vliegenthart, is there the figurehead. That you distance yourself from that shows exactly how big the difference between your party and my party is when it comes to the social domain. This is at least a result of this debate. The advance of the SP from the bottom is visible. It is logical that we should want to continue it at national level as well. The formation of a new government will require political flexibility from all of us, including in this Chamber, where at least four parties are needed to form sufficient support. The country's interest is the real country's interest. We, now the largest opposition party in the House of Representatives and the largest party on the left in this Chamber, will co-operate constructively on a new government, to enable "a new spring and a new sound," to quote the probably most famous rule in Dutch literature. Gorter added a fat 4,000 other rules, but my speaking time is now up. I would therefore like to hear, perhaps for the very last time at General Reviews in this House, the counter-sound of this Prime Minister, and hope for a strong but constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. Four years ago, during the Political Reviews, we had a sharp eye on the retina of how the men Samsom and Rutte celebrated their success. Within six weeks of the elections, they were out, with a coalition agreement that both parties, who were standing in opposition to each other just before that, had to satisfy each other. According to the agreement, VVD and PvdA shared an indestructible belief in the future. But did they also share a vision of the future, a vision of our country and our society? That turned out to be a bridge too far. The need for this was cheerfully swept away. A vision is like an elephant that only hinders the view. It only stands in the way if you want to broaden roads or build bridges. Honestly, that's why we held on to our hearts. Remodeling without a solid design, without an idea where it is going, is not without danger. The reforms have indeed taken place: large-scale decentralisation in the social domain, reforms in care, the rental sector and the labour market. Public Netherlands has been heavily renovated, but has our house become sturdier, more sustainable and more accessible, or are the foundations affected and are we being shaken? Time to see if such an exchange cabinet, a pilot of size, can be repeated. The decentralisations and, above all, the cuts that accompanied them made municipalities distressed. By keeping their hands on the cut, healthcare budgets did not always reach citizens. This morning we saw that 1.2 billion for care was indeed not paid out. The prevention, self-reliance, social participation and strengthening of social networks are still insufficient. How does the Empire as a system responsible accelerate this development? The Transition Committee on Social Domains points out to the Empire its role in cross-municipal tendencies such as weakening the specialist care structure and increasing debt problems. The Empire is also committed to defining good and accessible care and privacy guidelines. Does the cabinet have that in the poll and what measures does it take? The fact that the austerity objective dominated perhaps explains that many reforms have failed or even sacrificed the social objectives. At the same time, the financial proceeds from the cuts are very unclear, according to the General Court. Of the vast majority of over 50 billion budget cuts since 2011, we do not know the effectiveness. Moreover, the CPB estimates that they have cost some 5% of economic growth, as well as many jobs. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the evaluation of austerity needs to be improved, both in terms of social, economic and financial impacts, and if so, what measures does he take to achieve this? In any case, the bridges within society envisaged by the cabinet have not been struck. The contrasts in the Netherlands have increased in many areas. Sometimes despite and sometimes even thanks to the reforms, despite all the fine names of the laws. In this way, accessibility and quality of care has not been improved. Patients and caregivers often go against the power of health insurance companies. People in the lowest socio-economic classes live on average six years shorter than those in the highest class and face chronic diseases about 15 years earlier. Why do cabinet and health insurers fail to pursue targeted prevention policies? The Participation Act did not increase participation. Vulnerable people, in particular, think of people with disabilities and people with disabilities are more often on the sidelines. Instead of becoming more inclusive, the labour market tends to become a survival of the fittest, the Social Cultural Planning Bureau concludes. More than two million people who want to participate in the labour market find no place. Despite the Work and Security Act, or should I say "Flexwork and Insecurity Act"? The share of fixed contracts is still decreasing. Flexibility is growing and temporary workers are more likely to lose their jobs. Nearly 600,000 people live in poverty for a long time, and employment is no longer a guarantee to get out of that situation. Poverty and precarious work are increasing and concentrating on the low-skilled, especially among young people, single parents and migrants. Their position leads to social isolation and especially their children are the victims. Once upon a time, the housing association or corporation was the pride of social democracy. But during this cabinet period, the number of social housing for people with lower and middle incomes fell free and the rents exploded. Here, too, the low-income people lose it from those who can afford a house of sale. In the report entitled Divorced Worlds, the SCP and the WRR warned that the high- and low-skilled have grown mentally apart. Then it is particularly dangerous that, according to the education inspection, the difference in educational opportunities has grown rather than decreased. The children of rich parents bring it further than students from a poor environment. The aim of achieving greater equality through education is therefore far from being achieved. The director of the Social Cultural Planning Office also expressed his disappointment at the lack of connection between government policies in society. He points to growing ethnic contradictions, despite the increasing level of education of second- and third-generation migrants. Their unemployment is almost three times higher than among native Dutch people, while their qualifications are becoming more and more uniform. Applying for a job in vain is all the more frustrating if you have the right qualifications in your pocket. This exclusion affects the feeling of belonging to the Netherlands and also puts integration at a disadvantage at the level of society. Putters called it an integration paradox. Reports on this are now sufficient. My group wants to see a sense of urgency in this cabinet and a package of measures to counter this insidious and harmful division. I'd like a response. Globalisation also creates a dividing line between those who benefit from it and those who lose their security. That is not so strange, because globalisation without regulation strengthens an unequal distribution of wealth. But it not only affects low-educated people in the western world. In the developing countries, we are seeing even worse negative effects. Think of the consequences of dumping, of the dominant position of multinationals and of tax avoidance of the transfer of environmental damage. The Millennium Development Goals are far from being achieved and the new Paris goals also call for translation into those developing countries. The growing inequality, however, is not a natural law that is automatically part of cross-border cooperation. No, it's determined by political choices. We can also choose to curb the financial forces and protect the weaker parties. For developing countries, this means a radical choice for fair trade and increasing the net OS budget. For low-skilled people in Europe, this means protection through legislation and social safety nets and increased empowerment through education and retraining programmes. What measures does the government take to ensure that everyone benefits from this globalisation? The instability in the world, especially in the Middle East, has pushed the number of refugees to record heights. For more than five years, we have seen Syrian citizens being terrorized, not least by their own president. At the same time, they are prevented from fleeing across the external borders. The lack of solidarity with these refugees and with the neighbouring countries that are already receiving the bulk of them is appalling. The UN Conferences this autumn did not bring forward the hoped resettlement arrangements and the EU does not go beyond non-committality and breach of redistribution agreements. What steps does this cabinet take to break that, even for itself? And does it see the potential for a stronger EU contribution to international stability and human rights enforcement? It is not so crazy that people who feel excluded or threatened and do not experience a protective government are turning away from anything unknown. That danger exists. Unfortunately, this is not a unique phenomenon in the Netherlands. The government should not diminish its role in this. Connecting policy is crucial, but also binding language. What message do you deliver, what example do you set? Not that people have to "pick up" to their own country against Dutch people who behave or express themselves in a certain way. This is their country. Each time a group is put away publicly, removal within society increases. It is not to be underestimated how precisely political rhetoric is also thought of this morning, which can increase people's fears and frustrations, and thus also allow groups to play further apart. We politicians must be aware of this. Moreover, the image of a fearful and angry population needs to be adjusted. After all, there are many people who support a more generous refugee policy and also work for successful integration. Research also shows a relatively high level of support for the European Union. Both groups must feel taken seriously. In that light, I must say that I cannot follow the Prime Minister's actions during the Ukrainian referendum process. In the campaign, the cabinet didn't want to interfere. The results immediately took over the Prime Minister. Six months of radio silence entered and then he suddenly fell to his knees to be able to ratify. It seems as if both the referendum and the treaty have been underestimated for a long time by the Prime Minister and he may now have gotten out of Juncker's pocket. I wish the Prime Minister every success in Brussels, even though he has not made it very successful so far. But we wait. In the face of the energetic renovations, this cabinet has a great and long silence on many pressing issues. Were thezzp'ers still an urgent electoral theme, this cabinet has avoided basic choices and with the DBA Act only made their legal position more uncertain. The debate on pensions and the reform of the tax system have also been postponed. Speaking of ambitious climate policy, as the effects become clearer and the goals of Paris have been strengthened, additional efforts remain. We do not have structural measures, such as the closure of coal plants, the greening of taxes and more capacity for producing clean energy. Companies have long overtaken the cabinet. They want more ambitions. That does put the standard reference to the climate agreement in a very cynical light. After the abolition of milk quotas, against all warnings, it was waiting for the growing livestock. The Commission has cut through phosphate rights, so what is the government going to do next year to reduce phosphate production? The balance sheet shows above all the disadvantages of an exchange coalition. Where she was able to act, only one of the parties was able to do what she wanted and unfortunately the right-wing forces dominated it. Wherever the parties couldn't do that, the cabinet didn't go any further than inertia or perhaps some windowdressing. Many social problems have been aggravated or remain. We are not expecting miracles in the coming months, but we are looking forward to the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. Yes, it seems this cabinet will be able to say goodbye after it has completed its full term. This is an achievement that we have seen for the last time in the years 1994-1998; it has already been recalled. This is all the more special since the cabinet could not count on a majority in this Chamber and had to find ever-changing support for a firm reform policy. As a Christian Union, we have made our contribution to this, even though we asked at the beginning of this cabinet period where the wisdom of the wording had remained that a cabinet should be able to count on fruitful cooperation with the States General. We have been critical of a formation headed by the House of Representatives, also in view of the relationship between the two Chambers. However, this cabinet was able to rule and take measures to bring the revenue and expenditure of the government into a structural balance. We are thinking of interventions in the housing market, the AOW, the labour market and long-term care. Public finances are more sustainable in the future and the costs of ageing in the areas of care and AOW are manageable. The interventions have also known their price. The burden on citizens has increased and the debt position of households has not substantially improved. Economic growth is fragile, especially in an unstable international situation. Long-term unemployment remains relatively high. There has been a certain transfer. Unfortunately, the use of strict austerity has also put pressure on the traditional tasks of the government. The defence budget is irresponsiblely low. We have repeatedly pointed this out, including in motions for resolutions. The operational strength of the army and the police has been compromised and the functioning of the justice system is under pressure. Our group believes that traditional state tasks in the areas of security, the protection of citizens and the functioning of the rule of law should be in order and, as the Council of State puts it, should be reliable. This is the only way we can cope with social change. The challenges for the coming period lie in strengthening the rule of law and the military, in increasing employment and job security, in making economic growth truly sustainable and last but not least in shaping the very necessary energy transition. Our group is pleased to be surprised by the transition coalition that has formed under the leadership of business, with people like Pieter van Oord in the front line. This coalition is aiming for a real long-term perspective. It calls for a climate authority and a climate law setting out the objectives for 2050. What does the government think of the initiative and does it think of it? The cabinet dares to say that our country has come out of the crisis more strongly, but the paradox is that despite the economic recovery movement, the population is concerned about social tensions and expresses social discontent. It's like 15 years ago we were living with abundance and unease. There is talk of a gap between the living worlds of indigenous peoples and immigrants, between the interests of young people and the elderly, between permanent and flexible workers. Meanwhile, hitters and splitters must be contradicted, right up to this house. Perhaps the paradox is less remarkable than thought. The cabinet has been responsible for the importance of its own household booklet, but what about the conditions of existence of citizens? Did the great crisis not strengthen us in the sense that we live in a risk society? Houses, jobs, pensions are not certain. There is constant uncertainty in the air, partly due to increased international insecurity and major social changes. The ambivalent reactions to the arrival of refugees make that clear. Many people are mainly in the process of dealing with the challenges in their own lives. It is not surprising that the theme of moral connection and the quality of society is again on the agenda. A society is not happy with money alone, but lives on shared ideals and mutual commitment. Citizens have a task in this, but so do the government. It must be stable and reliable and be able to hold on in times of great change. That goes beyond getting the numbers right. What kind of society do we want to be? What are we talking to each other about? The government is not a lucky machine, indeed, but can offer hope. She does, among other things, by supporting a public morality. When Barack Obama campaigned for the first campaign with the theme of hope, he connected it with common values. He felt that in a polarized country these values should be excavated and recovered by forces of globalisation, individualisation and economicisation. He immediately mentioned two: sacrifice and duty. These are values that benefit the whole. That's how you build a country and a society. It is not the money, the state treasury and the economy that inspire us in this, but our way of living with each other, in which we can see our ideals and in which we stand up for each other, no matter how different we are, where we know we are seen and accepted and create satisfaction from work that contributes positively to something. Our time needs common values. According to the Prime Minister, may a vision be the elephant in the chamber, these common values hopefully are not. Fortunately, he too speaks more about norms and values. After the reform policy of recent years, it is time for this agenda. The WRR served us several years ago with the publication Values, standards and the burden of behavior. It is still up to date and I think it would be useful to take this line again in the coming period. The government has its own role in this. Standards and values are involved in legislation and policies and in any case require an enforcement government. We can talk long and wide about standards and values that must be important for everyone, but if the government does not act against lawbreakers and allows grey zones to exist, that is speaking powerless. Monitoring and inspection must be of high quality. This cabinet has already taken a first step with the strengthening of the first undressed Dutch Food and Waring Authority, to mention just one example. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that a subsequent cabinet should pursue this line, place the emphasis on compliance with laws and regulations and make enforcement a priority? Next, it is important that we not only appoint common values, Obama even spoke of "excavation," but also actually discuss them, especially in society and not just in politics. Today we talk a lot about the identity of the Netherlands and talk about values that should be important for everyone, from residents to newcomers. We then pretend that these values are obvious, but often they are not. Those values can only be evident if we share them and discuss them and are sparing on the institutions they promote. That really does not require sharp debates on the moral highgrounds of everyone's conviction. That is precisely the fundamental error of the proposal for death aid in the case of completed life, with the strong liberalisation of the concept of autonomy. It requires recognition of moral insights that we can all share, about the value of sacrifice and duty, for example. These insights are deepened by the invocation of everyone's conviction, which is valuable and binding. It is necessary that we have this type of conversation with each other. Mr Strik spoke just now about a package of measures to promote integration. What is most helpful in integration is the conversation we can have about what concerns people deeply. I think that helps with integration. For example, I would like to mention two common values from the basic text of the Declaration of Participation which newcomers must sign: solidarity and freedom. I think they look familiar to the vice prime minister. I assume that we do recognise them as common values. Both values call for a conversation about underlying moral attitudes. Solidarity means that we promise not to abandon each other. Society is not only a contract, but also an alliance of people. Do not let people stand alone if they lack safety, health, opportunities, opportunities and resources! Sometimes a government has to help as a shield for the weak. This also happens and precisely in families, neighborhoods and churches. The decentralisation of care presupposes this morality in which we want to stand up for each other. Indeed, the institutions that support these values of solidarity include the churches, where the message directly sounds that we are committed to the interests of others and that our neighbors matter. So appreciate the role that churches play in society and do not make it difficult for them to appeal to the separation of Church and State! To Mrs Faber, I say that an appeal to the separation of Church and State, as she does, would mean holding back your deepest conviction, which should be reflected in the debate. When it comes to aid, this separation of Church and State is not at all absolute, because the government often calls directly on churches and the cash of the churches flows into society. Last week, a study showed that churches are spending more on poverty reduction, 36 million. From the churches, 1.25 million hours of volunteering are provided to society. I know many other examples. Why does the government cooperate with companies and knowledge institutions but not with churches? Churches are indispensable for the intangible agenda. Does the Prime Minister want to reflect on this? I mean that we not only talk to churches, but also use churches as places where knowledge about society exists and where concrete assistance is provided. The second value that is recognized in common is that of freedom. We appreciate the freedom of our way of life and our society in which we can go and stand wherever we want. That's a big good. We also know that this value must be positively qualified. One freedom that the other doesn't see is not freedom. Virtue as sacrifice and doing your duty cannot remain unspoken. Where and when do we do this now? What platforms or institutions are picking this up? Newcomers often see our freedom as a moral vacuum. If we consider the moral dimension of citizenship to be important, we must go beyond signing a declaration of participation, no matter how important it is. If our values are worth anything to us, we must discuss them and attach an action perspective to them. This is the only way we can be proud of our freedom together, because we see it as the space to live well and create something good for each other. Would it not be very important that we resume a social dialogue on widely recognised common values, involving all spiritual movements in our country? This is already happening locally, for example through urban conversations for which initiatives already exist in The Hague, but it can also be done nationally. Would it be an idea to ask the WRR and the Social Development Council again to play a role in this? I am now asking the Prime Minister to do the same. Finally, in the Sermon on the Mount, those who hunger and thirst for justice and peacemakers are praised. Those are the people of hope. They are committed to others and to society. They also expect something from the governments as a helper. Governments can provide guidance, not abandon people and do justice, that's even their mission. However, public authorities must be sparing on the moral capital of society and the values we share and, if necessary, re-excavate them. We wish the government God's blessing, a strong awareness of its own responsibility in this and thank it for all the work it has done for our country in the past cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. General Political Reviews have two annoying aspects: they are general and they are political. The latter is all the way in the run-up to the elections. Two coalition parties that were still water and fire in the first half of 2012 and wanted to let the voter know about this, turned into water and wine in the second half of 2012, this was a miracle and are now separated from table and bed again, in the run-up to 15 March. As a relatively small group, we have been given ten minutes' speaking time. From the planet-wide view of the Party for Animals, it is quite difficult at that time to provide a summary of our criticism of the single-issue thinking, which is almost entirely based on the long-term interests of Western man and his money in general and the Dutch electorate and his money in particular. Who's that voter gonna bet his money on? If your house is underwater, your job is on the run, your children's studies are more expensive than they were ever planned, your pension is at risk or your savings are not worth anything and you even have to fear negative interest, who are you going to bet your money on? In times like this, you can choose between your money and your life. There is little life and a lot of money in the Millions Note. What I would like to suggest to the cabinet is more than ten minutes, but fortunately Leonardo di Caprio filmed it in Before the Flood, a documentary on climate change. Di Caprio states, with many scientists and world leaders, that there is no greater threat to our current society than climate change. We are the first generation to experience the consequences of this and we are the last generation to be able to do something about it. The film lasts 90 minutes and is available free of charge on TV, in the cinema, on YouTube, Twitter, iTunes, Amazon, PlayStation and Xbox until November 6. There will be few spokesmen who have so much support for what they have to say today and I ask the President to consider the arguments, as they are discussed in Before the Flood, as repeated and inserted here. In the remaining time, I focus on a number of topics along the lines of that film. Last week, the Social Economic Council delivered an urgent opinion on the unsustainability of the way we deal with animals in the Netherlands. The Social Economic Council is not a consultative body known for its radical solutions. For this reason alone, society must assess the ESC's proposals on a more sustainable future for livestock farming with more than average interest. A large-scale committee of the ESC came up with a far-reaching plan: The Netherlands must only continue to support a top group of sustainable livestock farms financially, which is about 30% of the total. So 70% of the total does not meet these sustainability requirements, and that is appalling. The Economic and Social Committee is in favour of a strong direction to tackle the shadows of intensive livestock farming, environmental pollution, health risks such as Q fever, megasms, inadequate animal welfare. The timing of the ESC opinion, five months before the Lower House elections, may be purely a set-up, but that is not an argument to turn these proposals away as opportunistic. In livestock farming, the traditional pig cycle is always a dilemma. It saddles farmers with very varied income and society with, for example, the environmental problems caused by higher production. The release of milk quotas last year, for example, led to larger stables and, as predicted, additional phosphate pollution. The government didn't see it coming. We have talked about it more than once in this house. It happened, unlike what the government expected. The government did not respond adequately to this. Farmers were the victims. That's not how it's supposed to be. The last 190 words do not belong to me or to the election programme of the Party for Animals, but on 26 October this year the NRC Handelsblad's main editorial commentary, like the SER, was not the most radical stronghold we know in our country. In 2001, the Wijffels Committee noted that the conditions in which animals are kept in intensive livestock farming are unworthy and that pigs should be able to pry, chickens should be able to scramble and cows should be allowed to walk in pastures. According to Rabobank's former top man, more stringent standards reduce livestock by themselves. That was his expectation in 2001, but we saw the opposite. Minister Brinkhorst promised to take over the recommendations, but did not have the time to do so. In 2007, the CPB stated that the meat tax could work very well, but it didn't. In 2011, the Van Doorn Committee found that it could no longer do so and that all animal products should be produced sustainably. That recommendation did not come true either. Subsequently, the Scientific Council for Government Policy came up with a strong advice to achieve a sustainable and responsible food policy and the Plan Bureau for the Environment presented a research report showing that if all the inhabitants of the European Union were to eat half less meat, dairy and eggs, greenhouse gas emissions would fall by 25% to 40%. That too was directed to deaf ears. And now there is the opinion of the ESC. A horse would be blush if so many government consultative bodies for more than 15 years were united in advocating a reduction in livestock, in the interests of animals, nature, the environment, climate and public health, and the cabinet was deaf and blind to this. In 2009, group president Rutte in the Chamber said that he had always had great difficulty with the bio-industry and the accumulation of pigs in a humane way. Animal welfare is very high on the list for us, it is very important and one can always go to us for that, he said. I'd like to see that "always" delivered today. Can the Prime Minister say why his ambitions at the time, which are fully shared in the PvdA's electoral programme, have not been implemented in any way, even though the coalition agreement allowed for this? Apparently there are other, larger interests that stand in the way of these ideals of coalition partners. In this case, no laws or practical objections stand in the way between dream and deed, but interests that can be expressed one-on-one in money. Interests that caused 74 people's lives to die more than they have been victims of terrorism since the Second World War in the Netherlands were sacrificed on the altar of the economy, at the time of the Q-fever epidemic, which still makes hundreds of people in Brabant and Gelderland chronically ill without the government having compensated them in any way for the suffering they have suffered. Any discussion about budgetary states does not fall into the context of ignoring suffering that could have been avoided. This is a conscious risk that has been passed on to defenceless citizens, which is still not recognised by the government. Can the Prime Minister say whether and, if so, when he finally wants to make a generous gesture to the victims of the Q-fever drama, which could and should have been prevented? Can the Prime Minister indicate when he will finally adopt the recommendations of all these advisory committees, which indicate that keeping 500 million animals in a small country like ours is not sustainable, from the point of view of animal welfare, public health, nature, environment and climate? Is there anything more important and what could be reason for this moral blind spot to remain tolerated in our society? Free trade will not erase this scandal, but make it bigger. The Ukraine Treaty, CETA and TTIP make the situation worse. It is impossible for Dutch farmers to compete against pluffed chickens, battery eggs and hormone meat, which will flood our market if these conventions come into force. The twisting around the Ukraine Treaty, which deserves nothing but a proper repeal law, indicates how much the cabinet gives priority to anything but the will of the Dutch electorate. The Prime Minister says he wants to amend the treaty, while the voters did not ask for adjustment at all, but for withdrawal. The Prime Minister's comment on the goat path was the first thing he has said about animals for a long time, but that remark is mainly about money and geopolitics. Saving the cabbage and the goat, that's what alienates the voter from politics. Can the Prime Minister finally clarify the position of the cabinet with regard to the Ukraine referendum? That clarity is lacking once and for all in the wrinkled letter we received from him yesterday. In that connection, the Prime Minister has a lot of explaining to do. We look forward to answering our questions with interest, and we will speak 133 days before the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. It's been a few years since I squatted on the ground, grabbed my son, held him close to me and stared into the ink black darkness of the caves of Saint Peter's Mountain in Limburg. Our guide had left us alone for a while, but he took the lantern. He warned us: hold on to the wall, because it gets so dark that you become completely disoriented; you can even lose your balance. And it was. I held my child and was caught by the absolute darkness. That was oppressive. Until the guide returned. The first thing we saw, somewhere in the distance, was unmistakably a glimmer of light! I use this image because the themes I want to name are somewhere on the spectrum between dark and light. In these general considerations we must dare to point out: is this light or is this darkness? One can think of the issue of security. Our defense is fighting ISIS. What is ISIS? Light or darkness? There is no doubt: these are dark forces. Fighting this requires a strong defence. So 300 million will be a good start next year, but much more is needed, especially now that the tension is increasing internationally. One can also think of terrorism. The shocking examples are known: with an axe, a knife, a bomb or a truck. Frightening, darkness! Let us focus on light, by ensuring adequate detection, sufficient police, strong intelligence and international detection, as well as adequate protection for population groups that have lived with us for centuries, such as the Jewish community. What does the Prime Minister think about the need for the Cheider School in Amsterdam to be secured with a new fence recently? Of course, we should not make the mistake of turning terrorism one-on-one into anti-Semitism, but the latter may be part of terrorism. My question is what steps the cabinet is taking against anti-Semitism. Death doesn't just come through war and terrorism. Unfortunately, we also see more or less controlled deaths. If there is one theme where light and darkness are opposite one another, then it is this. With pain in my heart, I call again the 30,000 abortions a year in our country. The law says this can only be done in an emergency. I ask the Prime Minister: 30,000 emergencies, is that light or darkness? What action can we expect from our cabinet if there are 30,000 emergencies a year? What opportunities does the Prime Minister see for providing women with better help, creating bright spots for women in real emergencies? Madam President. I cannot find any light in the plans for a completed life and a voluntary end of life, in response to the Schnabel Committee's report. Why does this cabinet, which is in its final period, take a position on such a loaded subject? You know that we, my group and I personally, believe and confess that God gives and takes life. The Bible speaks clearly about this. Thou shalt not kill! In the Christian churches, this command is placed in a broader perspective by stating "that I am not thinking with my neighbor, nor with words or any gesture, much less with the deed, by myself or by others defiled, hateful, hurtful or dead." Again I ask that simple question: is the voluntary end of life now a theme of light or of darkness? The fraction of the SGP sees the government as a servant of God. But if I were to leave that out for now and put it neutrally, namely that the government is there for the benefit of its citizens, my question is: does that government also facilitate suicide? It will be clear: the SGP is for life. Everyone's valuable. If you're born and raised here, but also if you get a place here as a refugee. There is no easy solution for this flow of refugees. Of course, the SGP also wants to cover mainly in the region. In admitting or not in our country, we strive for justice and mercy, with an eye for feasibility to preserve our own identity. But a fence around our country is not the solution. Then we'll be trapped in our own freedom. Redirecting harshly does not fit in with a Christian vision of man and humanity, especially not for the most vulnerable who flee the darkness of hatred, violence and persecution of faith. Of course and fortunately there are also lighter themes. We have education that sounds like a clock, both public and special: keep it that way! Let us use the coming year to celebrate the fact that the Netherlands, partly thanks to the liberal predecessor of the Prime Minister, Mr Cort van der Linden, has a unique education system that has existed for 100 years. That is why the SGP Group has a request to the President of the States-General and the Prime Minister. How would you feel about a festive rally in the Knight's Room, for the States General and the government, like the 200-year anniversary of the bicameral system? We live in a prosperous country. The economic outlook is better than in previous years. How do we ensure that this applies to all sectors, including fishermen who fear the Brexit and dairy farmers who have fallen into a legal swamp? Is the Prime Minister also personally committed to these sectors in Brussels? It's a good thing the housing market attracts. Unemployment is falling, although it is not very fast. Public finances are getting more and more organized. Compliments for that, insofar as this is achieved by the cabinet! And nice is also the purchasing power improvement for everyone. However, there are dark edges to the mutual distribution, especially for the single-earners. You knew I'd bring it up. Last year in the General Political Reviews, this Chamber supported a motion calling on the government to reduce the gap between one and two earners. You will no doubt remember that sometimes a earner pays five times as much tax. However, the gap has not been reduced with this budget, but widened and deepened. The single earner is not going to pay five times as much, but almost six times as much. Is that fair? How does the Prime Minister assess the deepening of the gap in the light of the broad-based motion in this Chamber? Can he respond to all those people who opt for care or care for their children, but who feel that they are being punished for that? This also has an impact on one of the cabinet objectives, namely in the area of employment participation. For example, the 400,000 double-earners with children earning less than €20,000. If the second income is increased from €10,000 to €20,000, they will not have to pay any euro tax on it. But a single earner who earns €22,000 and keeps his salary down to €32,000, doesn't have an extra €10,000 net income. Does the Prime Minister think this is real? Does he agree with me that this undermines the incentive to participate in the labour market? Is the Prime Minister prepared to map out how the tax burden will be applied to different groups? And is he prepared to take measures to alleviate extreme tax burdens? In conclusion, I come to the following. Light and dark alternated in my speech. That was not to keep a gloomy story, but because I have hope for the light! And because, according to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, these points are essential. Sure, they're called from a philosophical perspective. In fact, they have been mentioned from the deep faith that God's commandments are beneficial and that God is for good with people. Well, we live in a country marked by the Christian tradition. That refers to Jesus Christ. He says: "I am the light of the world; he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." The Bible therefore calls us to walk as children of the light. That's how I get back to my kids in St. Peter's Mountain. In that ink black darkness of the cave the guide returned with his lantern. He carried the light, and we followed him out of the darkness, into the light.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that our group deeply regrets the fact that, as the discussion on the PvdA's list leadership is raging, Mr Mark Rutte has not made himself available for the PvdA's list leadership. If there is one who can fully endorse and defend the policy pursued by the PvdA, and much more credible, then he is. He can actually do that more than the prominent PvdA's who are now candidates. On 15 March next year, the Lower House elections will be held. Several municipalities, such as Oud-Beijerland, Tiel, Schiermonnikoog and Zwolle, have indicated that the political parties literally do not give room for election signs. This is not entirely new, because in 2014 the municipality of Tiel already set an example in the European elections. At that time, Minister Plasterk pointed out that the general section of the Municipal Fund included a provision for the funding of elections. The minister wrote that it is a good thing that the municipalities, by placing election boards, offer political parties an opportunity to stick posters, which are an important means of bringing their participation to the attention of voters. The Minister then sent a circular on this matter to all the lectures of mayor and aldermen. As it turns out, more and more municipalities are moving to non-posting election boards because of austerity. If this goes on like this, it's gonna go hand-to-hand. Will the cabinet remain in line with the position taken in 2014? What is the government going to do about this? Then yesterday it was officially announced that the AOW age will increase by three months in 2022 to 67 years and three months. The daily Trouw headlines today: Good for sportsmen, people retired later and they pay longer and therefore more premiums. And don't forget: the people who fall faster and faster into a very sensitive AOW-hole and get hit deep. The majority of the Dutch population wants the AOW age to be reduced to 65 years, but it seems that politics in The Hague is deaf to this and at the same time wonders about the growing gap with these voters. This new increase is an additional step too far, hence the explicit question of the 50PLUS Group as to whether the government is prepared to reconsider this new increase. People who are struggling and have poor health have been affected in recent years by an increasing contribution through their own risk. That has now risen to €385 per person. Only in the 2017 election year has it not been dared to do so again. After years of high increases, the Labour Party suddenly comes up with the demand to reduce its own risk to as much as zero. This will not get the voters, but it will get the laughers on her hand. Nevertheless, 50PLUS wants to take the PvdA seriously and that is why we strongly ask the Cabinet what it thinks of this plan and why the Cabinet itself has not come up with this in the last four years. I would like to hear a good explanation on this point. The gap between workers and non-workers has been deliberately increased by this cabinet. The Cabinet is not ashamed of that. The Millions note mentions the pension arrangements that may need to be cut, while page 18 states that workers in particular were making progress through rising wages and lower pension contributions. Where the cabinet is talking about a balanced policy, the CBS has calculated that the increase in purchasing power for workers in 15 years was 30% and 30% higher than for pensioners. With these invincible figures, Prime Minister Rutte, Deputy Prime Minister Asscher and the entire cabinet fall with a dazzling blow from the ridiculous balance bar. ECB policy has caused considerable damage in the Netherlands in recent years. Pensions have not been indexed for years and interest rates for savers may even become negative. Why doesn't the government do any more to reverse ECB policy rather than go along like a wag-tailing lapdog? Why does the government not do anything to compensate pensioners for pension reductions as it did with compensation for workers? Together, all elderly organisations sent a letter to the Prime Minister on 14 October asking for their proposals to prevent new discounts, which affect both workers and pensioners, and to discuss this in the Cabinet. We have the following question to the Prime Minister. I see he's already talking to the vice prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u39	Prime Minister, because of the acoustics here, your consultation is very easy to follow. You may think you speak softly, but that's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u40	Is this what happened? Has the letter been discussed? Is there an answer or a proposal, or can we hear a little more about it today? Another point is that pensions will be reduced by a VAT tax. Around 5 million participants will be affected. The effect may rise over the course of 30 years to €150 pension per year. That is perhaps not so much seen by the Hague Government's glasses, but it is for people with a small pension, especially if it is placed within all the losses that have taken place in recent years. There has been no indexing for years, but there have been discounts and negative tax measures for pensioners. In addition, on 31 December the Netherlands Bank will look at the levels of coverage of pension funds. It does not look at their tremendously increased capacity, not at their actual return, but at an artificially low interest rate based on coverage. Once again, this cabinet shows how much it feels for pensioners in need. Very recently, Secretary of State Klijnsma said that if certain funds will have to be cut, that can be spread over a period of ten years. She said that in that case we are talking about a few euros per month discount and not tens of euros. 50PLUS considers this to be a shameful argument, because a few euros per month are tens of euros per year and hundreds of euros in ten years, in addition to the non-indexation of recent years and the non-indexation that will continue for at least five years. People are really gonna feel this after all. The real risk of new discounts in 2017 can be seen from the recently published quarterly figures of the five largest pension funds. They achieved an excellent return, for example the ABP 9.8 billion. However, what the Volkskrant calls the contested cheap policy of the ECB does not improve the coverage rate. Because of this unfair and ridiculous calculation method, the paper obligations grow even harder than the huge returns. The present generation of pensioners, who will no longer see a repair before her death, is hit by this cabinet with a machine gun. The chairman of Metal and Techniek, Jan Berghuis, puts it as follows. The Netherlands has the biggest savings, but the rules mean we can't get away with it. In recent years there have been no indexations, but discounts. In the coming years, there will again be no indexations and there will again be a threat of discounts. There is a VAT measure which further damages purchasing power. The few euros, the tens of euros, the hundreds of euros, yes, even the thousands of euros, are building up. 50PLUS would consider it incorrect and unjustified to reduce pensions in 2017 due to the standards currently applied. That is why I have the following question. Will the cabinet do everything it can to prevent pensions from being reduced in 2017? Together with some other parties, we have a motion to give a hesitant government a friendly support. We await the government's response with tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. We do not all agree but almost all agree that the world is not getting calmer, that it is becoming more difficult to find protection from all kinds of dangers as a small country and that it is very important that we remain embedded in larger totals that are better able to cope with all these threats. For us, of course, these are mainly NATO and the European Union. Of these two, the European Union is today the most controversial and even now much in the news. This European Union, which is supposed to represent the collective interests of the 28, or now actually 27, Member States, often lacks sufficient support from Member States in order to be able to take decisions quickly and therefore to act effectively. In addition, however, as we now see with CETA as well as with the Ukraine Treaty, the EU is sometimes spectacularly lacking in achieving targets that are widely supported, through obstruction of small minorities. Our interest lies very directly in a well-functioning EU. The decision-making process is viscous, but in itself decision-making power is well distributed among the Council and Parliament, among the Member States and elected representatives of the people. Trade policy, for example, can be decided on. What can be decided in this way by the bodies of the Union should not be taken out of their hands by the Commission, as seems to have happened by declaring a trade treaty to be a mixed treaty. But of course we must not put too much into a trade agreement, so that it is really mixed up. Is a system of complaint assessment of companies against States, whether by temporary arbitrators or by a permanent tribunal of judges, now a part of a trade treaty that can be decided at EU level or goes further, and therefore should the national parliaments be involved in such a decision? What does the government think of this in concrete terms? The situation is, of course, quite different when it really means more than just trade, i.e. the association agreement with Ukraine. There may be good reasons for this, and in the case of the Ukraine Treaty there may be good reasons for that. It is precisely a neighbouring country so large, so corrupt and so threatened that it should not be released, but should be kept as well as possible. That is why 27 countries have already ratified the Convention. But then it cannot happen that a treaty negotiated by so many parties and thus, in fact, no longer adaptable, is still threatened by domestic regulations such as our referendum law. The importance of the EU as a whole, of all Member States, falls here because of a poorly defined interest of a small group and the unrest of a somewhat larger group in a Member State. In many domestic laws, a referendum, even a decisive referendum, can work, but not here. Conclusion: our referendum law needs to be amended as soon as possible, preferably in a way that cannot be subjected to a referendum. Can the latter and does the government have plans in that direction? In this context, of course, there is still the question of how the government will proceed with the case we are dealing with today. With the government, I believe that the treaty is very important and should be ratified. If the government succeeds, not in amending the Treaty, but in laying down a number of legitimate interpretations in a statement with the partners, it will at least create clarity on a number of points that were clearly not clear to everyone during the referendum. We need to get this case off the table, the sooner, the better. Furthermore, as far as I am concerned, Ukraine deserves our full support, but it must be put under heavy pressure to grant the eastern provinces a legally guaranteed special status and to adopt an electoral regulation for that purpose. Luxembourg can be governed as a unitary state, the Netherlands can only do so if there is sufficient decentralisation of powers, Belgium cannot do so, although it may be simpler than it is now and Ukraine, as large as Western Europe, cannot, in my opinion, do so either. Does the government want to use its influence here as best it can? These are, of course, only the small problems in this world, while the whole of the Middle East is in flames in the meantime, where almost everyone fights against everyone or at most for opportunistic reasons and therefore temporarily fights with others. Europe can do little more than constantly show restraint and help to cope with the terrible humanitarian consequences both here and in the region. In addition, Chancellor Merkel's first and possibly too emotional reaction is "wir purchase tie!" In fact, we are still the most humane and therefore most morally responsible guide to our approach and also to our willingness to provide financial aid. We would like the various religious and ethnic groups in the Middle East to find a mode of vivendi supported by tolerance, so that we can return to commonality and therefore a normal life in these multiform states. I fear that this will not work and I fear that we will not achieve the full acceptance of 'others' here in the Netherlands either. Discrimination of what is strange, of course, also occurs here, probably even more and less rather than less. But it also turns out that it is difficult to accept that people who live here or are really Dutch, also have a strong connection with another country. What has happened in Turkey has been extremely profound for that country, and so it is also for everyone who feels connected to that country. The fact that Dutch people who are also Turk have not only to do with citizenship is such a crucial moment to express themselves especially when Turks and the Turkish flag are carried along, does not have to be surprised and does not have to lead to accusations. It is only when contradictions lead to behaviour that is contrary to our legislation that it becomes objectionable. Then not only are blames, but intervention is also in order. Until that time everyone here can be a follower of Erdogan, Gülen or Öcalan, or an opponent of all three, and we do not have to decide what is the best choice for them. Does the government agree with me? I would like to say a few words about probably the biggest domestic problem, gas extraction. Gas will be needed for the next few days. Of course, that's obvious. However, an annual collection of 24 billion cubic metres in the Groningen field is too much to calm the earth. Last night there were two more tremors. Meanwhile, smaller fields are being searched, above the Wadden Islands, in South-West Friesland and in North-East Friesland, and this naturally results in resistance everywhere. Last year, the Governor of the Bank of England once argued that two thirds to four fifths of all oil and coal resources should remain in the ground because of the consequences of climate change. The President of the Dutch Bank agreed with him. An intention in this direction with regard to the Dutch gas is not yet noticeable. Does the government think that this should be the aim? The damage recovery in Groningen is not yet going well and leads to a lot of criticism, again because by far the most money goes into continuous research, appraisal and assessment rather than recovery. The President of VNO-NCW Noord has proposed simply to buy up all the real estate in the affected area offered at earthquake-free market prices, redevelopment the area and then make it available to the previous owners or others on market terms. The judge's ruling that the price reduction in the area should be reimbursed to everyone can be achieved in this way. From the fuss about what exactly caused a certain damage, we're done. That saves a lot of money. Does the government find such a solution? Noordoost-Friesland reluctantly wants to accept limited gas drilling at Ternaard, but believes that a substantial part of the profits should benefit the region. This has often been asked in the past, of course, but never happened. Does the government also consider that this can at least reduce the pain of the risks to be incurred and thus make extraction more acceptable? Is the government prepared to give serious thought to this despite the fact that the state's gas revenues are already under severe pressure? I do not, of course, appreciate all the government's measures, but I do appreciate the fact that the coalition parties, the ministers and the Prime Minister have been able to bring this period to a close. I'm assuming they'll keep it up to the end. I think this stability is good for the Netherlands. I would also like to await the Prime Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u42	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I propose that the sitting be suspended until 6.30 p.m. I've considered bringing it forward. I see the Prime Minister nodding, but we have committee meetings on this break. It's said 6:00 and I see everybody nodding all of a sudden. Okay, but I don't want anyone to come grumbling. I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. That includes dinner break, so you have to eat very early.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. I will speak a single introductory word and then tell you how I intend to deal with the various themes in cubes. Perhaps I may begin, a little challenged by Thom the Earl of D66, by saying something about the throne speech. On Prince's Day, the King said... Mr De Graaf misses these fine words, but he can read them back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u44	I've already called twice for the continuation of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u45	I've been downstairs screaming that they should come up, but nothing happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u46	Very good, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u47	On Prince's Day, the King said in the Throne speech that there is much to be proud of and build on in our country. I am pleased to hear in the opinion of many spokesmen that the Netherlands is now in a better position, just as they are talking about the role of the Dutch people as a whole, us as politicians and the cabinet in it. I will try to respond as well as possible to the many comments and reflections that have been made. Back to the throne speech. If we look purely at the socio-economic news, we can only see that there has been even more reason to look positively at the future since Princess Day. All relevant indicators are now green: exports, producer confidence, number of bankruptcies, consumption and today's industrial production, which has been at the highest level since 2011. Positive figures are emerging, there are many jobs being created and unemployment is now falling at a reasonable pace. It was slow at first, but that pace has gone up; of course it can always be faster. In other words, the Netherlands is in good shape. Thom de Graf, who I am talking to again when he is not there, said at one point: didn't that throne speech have too many positive remarks; wasn't it a cheerful and positive story? I don't think so. Indeed, in the eulogy of the throne, there was a cautious optimism. Me and the cabinet think there's a reason for that. But it has also been said that the Netherlands is far from finished and that there are still many problems to be solved. As Mrs Barth, Mrs Jorritsma and others said, many people in this country notice that things are getting better, but they have not yet noticed that they are getting better. At the same time, Paul Schnabel's statement was used today: I am fine, but the country is not doing well. That paradox is why I am allowed to use the word 'paradox' once in the 50th anniversary of D66 between 'I am doing well and not with the country' and 'the country is doing well and I do not yet notice it when it comes to the short term of resolving this crisis' is precisely the gap in which we are sitting. Oh, Mr. De Graaf is getting in now. Actually, I've been answering his specific questions for a while. I'm sorry, in building up my speech, there was no other way. The speech of the throne indeed had a positive tone but it did ask attention to the things that are not going well, also for the fact that people in their personal lives do not yet experience that things are going well. It also called for attention to be paid to the unrest in the world around us, which has a direct impact on the mood in our country. The war in Syria is escalating; I come to talk about it later. There is unrest at the external borders of Europe. The relationship with Russia is complex. The issue of refugees and the Brexit also give rise to concern and uncertainty. That is part of the eulogy of the throne and of where the Netherlands is currently standing. It is much better, but at the same time there are still major issues at both national and international level. Against that background, I would like to try to answer the various questions. I am about to start with the questions that have been asked about financial and economic policy. Then I come to the international questions and the questions about Europe. The third issue is security and the rule of law. Next, I will deal with care, education and science, energy, environment and infrastructure. A short "other" section is then followed. So I will start with the questions on financial and economic policy and I will always say it when I move on to another chapter. In the context of financial and economic policy, I shall begin with the tax reduction that was made possible last year with the support of the First Chamber. This reduction has received broad support in this Chamber and the House of Representatives. As a result, it was possible to reduce net costs by 5 billion in 2016. At the time, it was very consciously chosen to focus the relief on the people who work, especially those with a slightly lower income. That group has, we believe, experienced very much that there has been a zero line in many sectors in previous years. This group has had to pay very much the price of recovery policy. There have also been considerable increases in costs. Indeed, it was and is the ambition of this cabinet, like many in this Chamber, to achieve a much more fundamental tax reform. Last year we put forward proposals to reduce the burden on labour, a shift of direct and indirect taxation and a reweighting of the size of the municipal tax area. These three pillars saw the cabinet for a much more fundamental reform of the tax system. The fact was that there was insufficient support for this. At that time, we had to do a smaller tax reform combined with a 5 billion reduction in the tax. I think this was good news. I believe it has contributed to the further economic recovery in 2016. That will continue to work in 2017 and beyond. I naturally agree with parties like the VVD who say that the burden will have to be further reduced. Of course, the cabinet will be happy to do so, because it is true that taxes are disruptive and lead to less prosperity. If you're not careful, they also lead to people not wanting to improve and not going to work anymore. So we have a lot to do. We need to narrow down the wedge. It should become more attractive for employers to hire people. Work has to get even more rewarding. At the same time, we will have to keep looking for a balance, because taxes are being levied for a reason. They are our only source of income to cover all expenditure in the public sector. Expenditure on the public sector also has an important role to play in further strengthening our economy. Whether it is about security, education, defence or a solid social system, all the major challenges facing the government have their significance for future economic growth. So that always goes hand in hand. But if there's room to further reduce the burden, that's what happens. This was also achieved in the 2017 budget. There is a limited reduction in the burden, although not last year's size, but still taxation has been further reduced in the context of the purchasing power package. Then, of course, there is always, even in this Chamber, the difficult subject "one earners and two earners." Many questions have been asked about this, by the Political Reformed Party, the Christian Union and from other quarters. The fact is that in the Dutch system taxation is very much based on individual income. There is a philosophy behind this, namely to promote the economic autonomy and emancipation of the least-earning partner, in many cases, that is still a woman. There is no doubt that there is social support for this. In addition, it itself has positive effects on employment rates, and hence on long-term employment in the Netherlands. For example, the proportion of women working in the Netherlands has grown enormously over the past ten or twenty years. This has made a huge contribution to our economic growth. I agree with all those who say that a job is more than an income. A job is in the first place also to discover your talents, maintain relationships with others, actively establish yourself in a social context, get to know your own boundaries and see where opportunities are. A job is therefore to a large extent also social and not just financial. I very much agree with that. A comparison of individual incomes shows that the tax burden on two-earners with children is currently higher than that of one-earners with children. That's a fact, too. It does not alter the fact that the cabinet has an eye for the position of a earner. We made commitments on this last year when we dealt with the tax plan. It's back this year. The motion calling attention to it has been carried out. This year, too, in purchasing power repair, attention has been paid to a earner. They will advance by 0.4% in 2017. That's exactly the same as the average household. On top of that, the cabinet has taken measures to meet financially a earner with a chronically ill partner, this was a wish of the Christian Union and other parties by reducing their own contribution under the Wmo. For this, the cabinet pays 50 million. For most people with an income on a modal level in such a situation, this amounts to an advantage of €1,400 per year. So we're working on it, but I realize that the wishes go on from the people in this house who are calling for particular attention to this. We're gonna have to find ways to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u48	First of all, let me congratulate you on what has indeed been achieved. I too have seen in the documents that the chronically ill and the people who have to take care of them are indeed compensated. 50 million has been earmarked for this purpose. That's beautiful. The figure is about 11,000one-earners, as calculated. It is wonderful that money has been reserved for this purpose, but there are 340,000 single-earners. Of course, you have to double that number, because the partner is not included. Anyway, let's stick to the 340,000 single-earned. My compliments on the fact that at least this has been done. Secondly, the Prime Minister states that it was intended that there would be more two-earners. That has also been achieved, and it has been done, with a huge impulse. I have argued today that it is clear from the documents that if you earn €10,000 as a second earner and earn €10,000 more, so you will earn €20,000, you will have to pay €0 tax on that extra income. So that's a great impulse. Thirdly, I would like to mention that the Prime Minister is very easily going over that motion. It does not ask whether he wants to do anything about purchasing power, but whether he wants to do something about the gap between one earner and two earners. One earners had to pay five times as much and are now going to pay six times as much. The Prime Minister's statement that two-earners would be taxed higher comes from a calculation in which two-earners would earn €72,000 and one-earners would earn €36.000. That makes sense, but that's not the equation we made. That is why I ask the Prime Minister whether he would like to look again and examine how people who are now earning €22,000 and whose income is rising to €32,000, ultimately only get €1 per day, namely €355 per year. That's what I've just argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u49	I have three things to say about this. First of all, in general terms, it is of course true that the marginal pressure is relatively high for people with an income between around €20,000 and €35,000, so that many income-dependent schemes are phased out step by step in this range. That is the first point. Secondly, the example mentioned by Mr Schalk is, in two or three times €36,000 or once €36,000, a bit complicated. At twice €36.000 there are also two people who bring in that income. If you make comparisons between a single earner who crooks labor, and on the other hand a second earner who does and leaves more, that comparison is flawed. Within a multi-person household in which the second earner starts to work more, the first earner in that household has already had to deal with the dismantling of these different income-dependent schemes. So it has had to do with the higher marginal pressure that has just been outlined. This means that the second earner within that household will not be confronted with that situation again, unlike the one earner who is going to work more. The tax rebate in that country is, as is well known, at individual level, but the different surcharges are at the level of the household. So that all works out for each other. There is a third element to mention, namely the phasing out of the transferable tax rebate. This is also a deliberate policy. That happens in steps. This, of course, has an effect on the income picture. That is also inevitable, but it has been done consciously. We want to increase the employment rate. Against this background, last year this motion was adopted in this Chamber, and there are the wishes of the Christian Union, the SGP and other parties. I know those desires live fiercely in those circles. That is why the cabinet has said: we must really try to come up with an income picture this year, in which, in particular, those earners are making progress. It worked. But the fact is that the mix of what we do, which is part policy, is partly the impact of existing regulations, naturally has a different impact on the different groups. It is always possible to cut out a certain income there and then say: for these people this has an extreme effect. I would then feel challenged to seek a similar extreme effect that works the other way. I think you should look at the general picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u50	It would be great if the Prime Minister wanted to look for other effects and then immediately put all the groups in the picture. Because I don't think you can keep it up... no, let me rephrase it. If it's okay with the president, I'll hand over to the prime minister through the messenger a state that comes from a letter from Secretary of State Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u51	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u52	That's what you're looking at. Suppose, someone who just has a low income, for example €22,000, so just over half of modal, goes to work. I just mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u54	It might be a two-day or three-day flex job. So he finally gets two days. Let's say he's gonna make $10,000 more on an annual basis. These people are left with €1 per day. I don't think anyone in this Chamber really wants that to happen. Does the Prime Minister still want to see whether that is still true and whether it is still substantial?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u55	We're definitely gonna look into that; I promise. Of course, all these different schemes have their effects, including on that type of income. But I understand, of course, that Mr Schalk's situation is extremely extreme. We're definitely gonna take a look at that. We're gonna see what the explanations are for that. It has, of course, partly to do with the fact that step by step in that trajectory of between €20,000 and €35,000 will eventually reduce those different surcharges. That actually applies to all these income-dependent schemes, such as the transferable tax rebate. Well, that's what I told you. We're gonna take a look at it. I promise. A question has been asked about the monument deduction. The bill on this issue is now part of the WHO Tax Plan 2017 package. That's in the Lower House now. The Minister for Education, Culture and Science will explain the proposals during the government's discussion and first term next Monday and will also comment on the questions raised there. I very much agree with the statement that monuments are important for this country. In recent decades, the State has invested hundreds of millions in the restoration of monuments. At the same time, we must note that the sustainability of heritage is difficult and often costly. There's been a situation of emptiness. New destinations for historic buildings must be constantly sought. We want to look at all the existing arrangements in a coherent way. The idea is that there will be a new financial system for the preservation of monuments from 2019 onwards, based on good maintenance and justice to the new challenges. The idea is that in the run-up to that new system, the monument deduction from 2017 onwards will be replaced by a subsidy scheme for the efficient maintenance of house monuments. But I say again that this also plays in the Lower House. That is where the Minister will take a closer look at this next Monday. Mr Brinkman of the CDA also asked the relevant question how parents can support children and grandchildren, and what might be possible for other donations, which go beyond just gifts for their own home. I didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to In itself, of course, there are opportunities for this at the moment. A donation from parents to children between 18 and 40 years of age for a study can, of course, be made using the well-known one-off increased grant exemption. This can also happen every year, but at a slightly lower amount in the donation of parents to children. Even if parents directly support their children in the cost of study, there is often no question of paying donation tax. That depends on the specific circumstances. Finally, there is also a specific exemption for the particularly high study costs. In other words, it is not necessarily a question of paying donation tax when parents support their children. The cabinet has the feeling that if you look at the total package, it turns out that this is well covering, and that now should be the priority in supporting the purchase of your own home. But, of course, we are always prepared to look at this further in the debates. Of course, comments have also been made on the employment relationship statement (VAR) and the efforts to make further improvements to this by means of the so-called DBA. This is mainly intended to combat bogus self-employment, simply because in too many cases at the existing VAR it was not always verifiable how it was done and it was not always manageable. As a result, we have really found out that between 2% and 17% of people using azzp construction are actually bogus self-employed. The percentages are different. The vast majority, I hasten to add, is therefore right to addzzp'er. The transition to a new system is always complicated. Hence there is a whole transition year, from 1 May this year until 1 May next year. There will be coulance. From 1 May 2017, the Tax Administration will then maintain in the corrective manner, in which benevolent clients and willing contractors have nothing to fear. There won't be a fine wave. If a party does not yet have any clarity, which does not allow its agreement to be assessed, there will be no repressive action, even after 1 May. Only entrepreneurs who clearly are not of good will will be dealt with from 1 May 2017. So we're still six months into implementation. Even after that, not everyone will be satisfied in that we must also be real, but we are sending it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u56	Now that there is so much unrest and so much displeasure about the DBA Act, which also reaches political parties, even yours, is not wise to have another kind of first interim report published in a month or four or five, with answers to questions such as: what do we see in practice and what are these displeasure and bureaucratic fears? We can then use them to make an assessment of whether, for example, changes can be made after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u57	Mr Dijsselbloem enlightens me; he also knows the file well. Those reports now appear at a much higher frequency. We'll make sure they go to the First Chamber, too, if that doesn't happen by default. But again, that frequency is already higher than what Mr De Graaf is asking for. I want to make sure we keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u58	I understand. I didn't mean some kind of monthly reports, I meant that at some sort of aggregated level around March/April there could be an idea of what was to be seen from the moment it was decided upon and the introduction started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u59	That doesn't sound crazy to me at all. I shall come back to that in the second term. But my first reaction is: I think it should be possible. I do not see the Minister of Finance running away angry, so we are going to try to give a more precise answer in the second term. So you're not looking for monthly reports, but on a more aggregated level of reporting. The law that we have all passed says that the AOW age increases with life expectancy. Failure to do so will ultimately cost a lot of money in terms of public finances; we must also be real in this. We do this for a number of reasons: we are getting older and older, which means that we can also work a little longer. At the same time, this also has an impact on public finances. That amount goes up to about 8 billion if you didn't. But again, here's just the law being applied. I see a little bit of a link to the expected salary for the Crown Princess. We adopt laws, and the moment they become visible, they don't like it anymore. But, yeah, this is just in the law that we all passed. I think there are really good reasons for that. How will we deal with threatening reductions in pensions? The fact is that many pension funds are not in good shape at the moment. Today's reports are that they're a little better off, but that's from those weekly and monthly figures, just depending on developments on the stock market and otherwise. The fact is that in many cases pension funds can already make reasonable returns on their own, but on the other hand there are very large commitments. The low interest rate currently affects pension building in such a way that the liabilities simply increase. This has to do with a large number of pension funds making commitments with a high degree of security, which means that those liabilities must be valued at risk-free interest rates. It is, as we know, adopted by an independent committee. What can you do as a government? First of all, make sure that you do not serve the people who are now receiving a pension in such a way that it reduces the potential for future pensioners to benefit from a good pension. In this respect, I would like to add my voice to Mrs Barth's report on the concept of solidarity. Balance between generations is crucial here. We need to keep a close eye on that. In connection with this, there are possibilities. For example, the SZW Secretary of State said that we are going to see if we can broaden the recovery periods. They go from 10 to 11 years. We'll be able to put a little more on everything. In mid-November, DNB will present a new report on the position of the funds, including the impact of such a possible extension of the recovery periods. It also looks at the impact on different generations. What I really want to warn you about here is that, especially with the elections coming, we are making the mistake of saying that in the shorter term these funds are not going so badly, why should they be judged strictly? It is precisely the whole system that we have that is crucial at one point, namely that we can continue to offer people who are building a pension a certain degree of probability that they will eventually be able to benefit from a pension. With today's low interest rates and the still high degree of security that is previewed by many pension funds, as a government and as both chambers, we must be keen to serve the active and pensioners in the short and long term in a good way. The response to the letter from the elderly organisations, to which was asked, will be included in the cabinet letter on DNB's autumn report, which deals with the financial position of pension funds. I note the following about the 40 billion needed to abolish the average systematic. As is well known, this system provides for a redistribution of young to old. At the moment, you see that the changing labour market makes young people not always able to count on the same benefits as they are old. Hence there is a broad movement to see if you can achieve an abolition of the average premium. But that must be balanced. You have to be careful not to let the bill be disproportionate in certain generations. On 8 July, the Cabinet gave birth to the Perspective Note, which states that this could be done, for example, by temporarily facilitating additional pension building for the most affected generations. It takes a lot of time, about 25 years, and it costs about 40 billion. You could spread that over a longer period of time. This does not have to affect the sustainability of public finances, as the additional interest on government debt will also face higher tax revenues, as a result of lower pension contributions and thus less deductions. Once the average system has been abolished, the same pension result can be achieved with lower contributions. That might be possible, but then you have to take a very long time. That debate is under way; it will not be completed by 15 March by nature and character. We will continue to work on that. But this stick we'll pass on to the next cabinet. What we are aiming for here is broad support in both chambers and in the social partners. Because it really is a very fundamental issue. We can't handle that too carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u60	If I understand the Prime Minister correctly, this porridge has not yet been deposited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u61	That's right: the porridge is a bit of a mess, but it hasn't been deposited yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u62	If so, it becomes all the more urgent not to say before the last year of office: then we will continue to be unable to index again, which often does not happen before the eighth, ninth, tenth time. All this while the system discussion has not yet been completed. That possibility comes, if I understand the Prime Minister correctly, in the next cabinet period. We'll see. Then you get the discussion about after-indexation or what you want to call it again with retroactive effect. Would it not then be better for this cabinet to make room in this transitional year, either by extending the recovery periods or by talking to the social partners about the exact guarantees that are being given, so as to remove the prospect of further shortening? This greatly affects confidence, because at the same time there is also a debate in Europe on the objectively best supplementary pension system. This is likely to lead to a reduction in security for the elderly and, in the long term, for young people. In addition, there is also a debate on where exactly this second pillar should end. I have given our views on this, but there can of course be other views on this. But this whole system discussion gives so much unrest, which is measured by the decision that will be taken on 1 January 2017, now it seems that for many groups no full indexing is again taking place. If I was Prime Minister, as I am well aware, I would not want to take that for granted. You say in this debate that we should only have the real discussion in the next period. I have the impression that several members of this house find this. My specific question is, therefore, whether you would not like to think about this before 2017 and come back to the general financial considerations in order to say that the government wants to give some room for the pension funds that can have some room for this with a little stretching and pulling. If the bottom has really fallen, we all have an interest in leaving these funds on the blisters, but that is not the situation for most funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u63	Here we have to be very careful, because this is potentially dangerous. I'm gonna take a few elements out of it. Mr Brinkman says: look at the recovery period. I agree with him. We'll be getting DNB's report on its impact. The interest rate, the ultimate forward rate, is currently set by an independent committee. Mr Brinkman is actually asking for policy intervention, against the background that we are engaged in a system discussion. After all, I assume that's the instrument he wants to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u64	No, to avoid misunderstandings, I deliberately did not mention that possibility. I've been working in that sector for 16 years, and I know a little bit about it, but this isn't about my knowledge. I deliberately did not mention this possibility; I have just mentioned other possibilities. Should we not wait for the report of the Dutch Bank and then discuss with Parliament what this could lead to? It's not January 1st yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u65	It's gonna happen anyway. That report is due in the middle of November. I understand now that Mr Brinkman does not want to play the UFR. Where's my concern? We are currently dealing with funds that make unrealistic commitments, in a situation where interest rates are extremely low. The policy states that we are based on an interest rate set by an independent committee. We should not want to intervene on that. That's how we prevent you from spending unrealized returns, because we don't want that. This would be at the expense of young people. Mr Brinkman says that you might be able to bring that back together. I say we beware of that. In all the depths of the debate, I would say that this is a risk if the debate on the new system lasts longer. It is not that we do not want to get through this; we will, but it is just taking longer and it takes more time. This simply runs into the next cabinet period. We're trying to do everything we can, and maybe we can finish it all. So we have not decided to push this forward anyway, but this is so complex and this calls for such support that it is unlikely to succeed before 15 March. Then we'll have to pass on the stick. That is a longer discussion, but I am concerned by the combination of funds, which still have a high degree of security and therefore really have to be valued on the basis of risk-free interest rates, and the fact that the discussion on the abolition of the average system and the whole new pension system has not yet been completed. If it goes well, it gets close. If it does not go well, however, you are building the new house, but do not at the same time make sure that the roof of the current house does not leak until the new house is finished. I would warn against that, because then we take risks, because you never know how quickly that other discussion was concluded. You do not want the current system to be undermined, even at the expense of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u66	Finally, Mr Brinkman, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u67	Oh, yeah. I made it very clear at the beginning of my interruption that if too many guarantees are given here and there, in these specific cases, of course in consultation with the social partners and also in the regular supervision by the Netherlands Bank, additional instructions can be provided. However, as the general policy now affects everyone, with the result that almost everyone gets into a situation of non-indexation or almost non-indexation, the good guys have to suffer the evil guys again. I would therefore like to ask for room for that more specific policy. It is possible that the recovery period could provide something to that effect. So my question is to look at that again, because the Prime Minister is unnecessarily pissing off 3 million to 4 million people, while perhaps some funds are involved. That must be done in the quiet supervision; we do not need to discuss this here in Parliament. This can simply be discussed with the funds concerned in the normal supervision of the Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u68	Yes. That discussion will certainly come back in the middle of November. The instrument that is now in place, which is independent of the indexing system, is the idea of extending the recovery period by one year. Of course, that gives some room. This means that, of course, the unexpected discounts can be smeared out. We have to wait for the report of DNB and then this debate will certainly come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u69	We are always talking about indexing and possibly shortening pensions. In fact, not indexing is a discount, but there is something that is not quite clear. There has also been low interest rates over the last eight years; this has been going on for a long time, but over the last eight years, pension funds' assets have increased by 615 billion. That's a lot. So I don't quite understand why there couldn't be indexing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u70	I just explained that. That has to do with the obligations. Mrs Faber is also there for the young people of today and not just for the 65-plussers. You could potentially do great harm to the young people of this moment if you do not resolve this wisely. The current low interest rates mean that commitments and costs are increasing enormously at the present time, in the context of funds which, in many cases, may now offer an unrealisticly high level of security. That's dangerous. So things have to happen in that system at some point. We have the second best pension scheme in some ways, but we have to deal with it very carefully. I really think it is a task of at least the large system parties in this Chamber who have built this whole system with the first, second and third pillars over the past 65 years, to ensure that we continue to maintain intergenerational solidarity in the interests of the different generations. That's really crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u71	The Prime Minister himself states that something must change. Yes, something has to change: we have to start calculating a different rate of calculation. This interest rate is so low that the doubling period for the required capital is therefore much too high. If we combine the proceeds of the investments with the interest, there will be a very different story. We at the PVV think we can't sell this. The pension pots have grown by 615 billion over the last eight years, with a low calculation rate but with a high investment yield. That high return on investment is just being knocked off the table. They don't look at that anymore. The only thing that is happening now is that the pension funds remain on that money. The people who have paid for their pensions for years and who have worked for 30 to 40 years are now being reduced, which is totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u72	This is really voodoo economics. We really need to be careful about that. Mrs Faber is really confusing two things: what is now in the pots and the obligations for future generations. Those are really two different things. Then you can say that we are going to artificially adjust that interest rate and, of course, we can set all kinds of indicators higher; the cabinet could also have assumed unrealistic economic growth, because we would have had to cut back. That would, of course, be extremely unwise. The pension system is extremely robust and can really take a hit, but we are now at a difficult stage, also because of the low interest rates and because these funds create quite high expectations among their participants. Please let us go through this stage in a sensible way. I think we can do that. Mr Brinkman and others have made suggestions for this. I think we can do that, but we have to do it one step at a time. We should not say: there is much in the pot; so just let the funds continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u73	The Prime Minister's answers raise another question for me. I fully agree with him that it is important that the independent determination of the UFR should remain unaffected. There should be no political jolt about this, because that would be very unwise for the financial soundness of pension funds. At the same time, I am very pleased that the debate on the average system is still ongoing, because our group is seriously wondering whether this system should be given priority in relation to the future of pensions. We can see that redistribution effect, but everyone who is young also gets old at some point and makes, if it is right, somewhere in his life that change in return, as it is now built up in the system. My question to the Prime Minister, also in the light of what he has just said to Mr Brinkman, is whether he is currently seeing room for discussion with the social partners on the design of contracts. That was a taboo a few years ago, when we now see that this is starting to move under the influence of circumstances. After all, how "defined" is the defined benefit still if year after year cannot be indexed? In any case, we see that there is room for the social partners to look at the design of the contract. If the buttons can be turned there, there may be a situation in which the influence of the UFR on the coverage rate can in any case be reduced, because then you will no longer work with a certainty over decades with three digits behind the decimal place. That might give some air to the people who are now retired. The situation for the people who have been retired for many years is, of course, just not the way you would like it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u74	A movement is underway on the entire front of "Defined Benefit" and "Defined Contribution." That's right. This also has an impact on the other elements of the discussion. I would, however, not be too quick to reject the whole idea of the average premium or abolish it. The cabinet believes that there are real advantages to be gained, because the average systematiek ensures that there is a redistribution from young to old. This means, for example, that the average systematism is now simply hampering the flow of labour into the labour market. It must be balanced; I said that. We need to have that discussion with each other. But of course all these elements are connected. Mr Brinkman is right to say that there is an effect on the short term and an effect on the longer term. It is certainly the case that there is a lot of movement at the front of the social partners, including in relation to the pension contract. That will also have its effects on the degree of certainty you offer. As you are more realistic with regard to that degree of certainty you are offering, or I do not want to be more specific about it, the UFR will of course be less heavy. Mrs Barth is right about that. So all these things work together. The cabinet is just working on it like it's still there for ten years. We know, of course, that we are outgoing after 15 March, but then too, we will continue to work on it, insofar as we manage to maintain the broad public support for it. Otherwise, of course, we must leave it to the successors. But there must be no delay. I very much agree with those who say keep pace. As part of the pace I come to another subject: Brexit. I am not talking about Brexit itself and the European implications, but I was asked what Brexit means for certain sectors in the Netherlands. The first tricky problem is that we still have no idea what Brexit is going to look like, because the British still have no idea, let alone we have it. So there are a lot of variants possible. Nevertheless, Mr Schalk rightly drew attention to the fact that there are sectors which can be particularly affected, depending on how Brexit takes shape. We happen to be back together tomorrow with the most involved leaders in the field of Europe, economics and finance in the Ministerial Committee on European Affairs to talk about Brexit and the Dutch position in these debates. We don't know what the British are coming up with yet. We only know about when they're going to trigger Article 50, the exit article, of the treaty. However, we are, of course, preparing to respond as soon as possible and also to ensure that we have a strong negotiating position in Europe. We will also take into account the concerns raised by Mr Schalk. These are specific sectors, without a doubt. I can really guarantee him that for me and for this cabinet, our economic interests in Brussels will be a heavy part of the effort, because we know that Brexit will certainly have an impact on a country like the Netherlands. In particular, this is a topical issue, which has also been raised, namely the concerns of dairy farmers. Abroad, Secretary of State Van Dam, who is now also here, is Minister. In the Netherlands he is Secretary of State, but as soon as he drives towards the Belgian tax havens, he is Minister of Agriculture. He has a great deal of contact with Brussels on phosphate rights at all levels, including with the Commissioners concerned. The Fertilizers Act and the letter of amendment thereto are in the Lower House. As is well known, the European Union has rejected the Dutch approach to phosphate production in dairy farming. That gave rise to that letter of amendment. We are now trying to find an entry date on January 1, 2018. Then we are also on the ceiling demanded by the European Commission. This requires that we arrive at an effective approach between now and 1 January 2018. This is the subject of intensive discussions with the sector. We really need to come up with a good approach so as not to jeopardise the Dutch derogation from the Nitrates Directive. We are going to see exactly what this package is going to look like in the coming months. The Secretary of State will also report on this to the Second and First Chambers. In particular, we are looking at a buy-back scheme for phosphate rights. Around EUR 23 million was made available by Brussels to address the problem in the dairy sector. We're gonna be able to use it for that, too. That whole plan is now being prepared. As soon as that is done, it will come here and the Parliament will be informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u75	My question is a little secondary. I will come back to the Ministerial Commission which is meeting tomorrow to discuss the potential consequences of Brexit. I assume that this committee will analyse the potential negative effects on our economy and how to respond to them. But can I expect to be looked at in reverse, too? If companies that operate a little wider than just for the British market say they want to leave or want to set up their headquarters elsewhere, are they also analysed? Is policy also being prepared on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u76	Sure, of course. If Britain continues to wish to leave the European Union, it will very likely lose access to the internal market, depending on the model chosen. This access is inextricably linked to the four freedoms, including the free movement of workers. There are companies that have established themselves in London or elsewhere in Britain, including with a view to accessing the internal market. They may be interested in location elsewhere. The interesting thing is that the Netherlands is currently very well on the market. This has to do with all kinds of factors, but also simply with the fact that Amsterdam, Rotterdam, the Eindhoven region and other regions, around Amersfoort, Zwolle and Groningen, are very well on the market, because we have all worked very hard on this. I cannot say everything about that, because of course that is all very subtle. I can assure Mr De Graaf that Jeroen Dijsselbloem, myself and Henk Kamp are working in all kinds of contexts and discussions to ensure that we are ready and that we are not naive towards other countries that are also working on this. Of course, we're not going to have very visible meetings near Downing Street with English companies to say: come to the Netherlands. After all, of course, we also want to maintain a good relationship with Britain. So that requires some subtlety. The Minister of Finance says that we are driving around with double-deckers!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u77	"Come to Holland!"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u78	The whole dossier of milk quotas and phosphate rights has caused us to frown very much. In fact, the cabinet is now constantly in the process of repairing the damage caused by the decision to abolish milk quotas. At that moment there were all kinds of warnings from all sides: don't do that, because those cattle are going to grow; farmers are going to expand. How does the Prime Minister look at that afterwards? Has he learned from this that it may have been a little too rash after all, that decisions of this kind will need more foundation in the future and that consideration should be given to the consequences? All this, of course, also has to do with environmental damage and with finding solutions to control phosphates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u79	I think we had a good approach to that. The problem was that it did not have sufficient support in Brussels. It's possible. I'm not grumbling about that. Sometimes it happens. We thought we had a good approach. Turns out it doesn't work. Then we have to move on. So now we have a new plan, which seems to be working. That plan is a combination of an effective date on 1 January 2018 and finding a solution for next year. It happens sometimes in life, that it doesn't go exactly the way you want it to. Then it'll have to go according to your second option. "If things don't work out the way they can..." Well, I don't know how that beautiful pronunciation went on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u80	Does the Prime Minister expect that this will reduce livestock enough again and that we will not again be faced with too much manure surplus and too much phosphate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u81	These are all step-by-step processes. We have a fantastic agricultural sector in the Netherlands. I'm going back to Indonesia in a few weeks and on such a trip it's really an export product of thunder. At the same time, of course, we must keep to the commitments we make in Europe. We shouldn't be naive about that either. I think that the plan that is now in place can bring these results. A little money is also available for this, so we can get through the year 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u82	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u83	The question is whether in a small country like us and with the environmental ambitions which the cabinet claims to have, milk should be the best export product, or whether we should look for other things. After all, this also entails a great deal of environmental damage, regardless of what the Commission thinks about phosphate rights. It brings with it environmental damage. The question is, therefore, whether we should not focus on other export products and other forms of sustainable economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u84	I am also the proud Prime Minister of all cows in the Netherlands and I do love them. I also love it when they're just visible. As far as the economy is concerned, I have one more question to answer about the European Central Bank. That's always a complicated one. The Netherlands and Germany in particular have always taken the view that the European Central Bank is independent and that we should be careful when making political statements about this. Angela Merkel and I hold each other to that, too. When the ECB was set up, there was also a debate in Europe about more political direction of the ECB. Especially from Paris, this was promoted around Maastricht and then, in the design of the ECB and the first President. We have been able to stop this; the ECB is independent. At the moment, of course, there is a policy that makes eyebrows frown here and there. Mr Brinkman and others have rightly drawn attention to this. However, I am very reluctant to comment on this because it is crucial for the credibility of monetary policy that the ECB can operate independently. However, during the General Financial Reviews in the House of Representatives, the Minister of Finance undertook to send a response to the CDA's initiative paper on this subject. So there's gonna be one. I do not want to anticipate that either. Of course, I understand everything that has been said here. We have already discussed the issue of low interest rates in detail on pensions. It is not only determined by the ECB; let us also focus on it. It also has to do with demand and supply of capital. You can also see that the decline in interest rates since the 1980s has been a global trend. But the most important thing for me is that, on the one hand, we maintain that independence of the ECB and, on the other hand, we ensure that a broad monetary policy never, never, ever replaces reforms. I am thus making the bridge to the next issue, namely Europe and international policy. I am not very positive about Europe and the European Union at the moment. There are really a few big problems. One of the problems we have is that there is not enough reform in a number of European countries, thus under-estimating the structural growth capacity of the economies. If the interest rate is low, you also miss the stimulus of a threatening rise in that interest rate, as we had a few years ago. That is a huge incentive to reform. There is no alternative to reform. We have seen this in the Netherlands under the Cabinets-Balkenende and under these Cabinets. You have to reform in this country, and when you do, you build one of the strongest economies in the world. We are now, I believe, the fourth of the world and one of the very few countries with a triple-A status. But we can't do that without reforms. That's a concern I have, except for the huge effects that low interest rates can have on pensions and private savings. We must ensure that we keep the Stability and Growth Pact high so that it continues to function. That concerns Dijsselbloem, myself and the other politicians. This brings me, after the economy, to the following theme: Europe and other international issues. I told you, at this point, we have to establish that things are just not going well. This is also the case with questions from the CDA, D66, Labour Party, VVD and others who have spoken about European cooperation. There are a lot of problems in international cooperation at the moment. CETA has just come through with hanging and strangling, but with all kinds of complex issues that have not yet been resolved. We are currently having a very complicated discussion in Europe, of which I am really wondering how we are going to get out of it, how we are going to deal with the trade defence instruments we have and the Lesser duty rule. That is a very complex issue, which is very divided. You saw in Europe with regard to Syria how complicated it is to keep the European front strong; I come here to talk about it so much more. This was achieved in the European Council of two weeks ago, but it was not easy; that is something I should say. At the end of the day, it has been successful, but countries are also increasingly separated from each other in terms of reforms. That is not so much a question of northern and southern Europe, because a country like Spain is doing a lot of reform. However, there are also countries where the pace has to rise. The whole support base under the system we have is likely to be undermined if the rules apply to one and not to the other, if the rules are maintained for one and not for the other. It is really vital that "equal monks, equal hoods" apply. We in the Netherlands have always been very much in favour of a Community approach, of a strong European Commission. This has always been our main defence against too strong, very large countries. Then it is also a risk for a country like the Netherlands if the European Commission becomes increasingly political in determining its decision-making. This is undoubtedly an inevitable effect of the entire system of Spitzen candidates, of list tractors. I myself think it is an extremely unfortunate development that we now have, which means that there will be a very political appointment of the President of the Commission. We're not just gonna get rid of that anymore. That was the case in the European political family, and I notice that this has a direct effect on the European Commission's political development, which, I believe, has reduced its authority at important moments than it should in treating countries in a level playing field: equal monks, equal hoods. So at the moment there are some serious problems in European cooperation. From the Netherlands we are working very hard on this, with concrete proposals on all these issues, to ensure that we pull those buttons out again. It is vital for the Netherlands that Europe remains strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u85	The Prime Minister is now conducting an analysis and sharing his concerns with us. Can he also share with us in what direction he thinks about this? When it comes to countries that lack reform, does he think of Italy and Greece, but also of France? What does this actually mean for the euro area? Colleague De Graaf said that you might think of different tempos in the future. Would you take us in the direction of your thinking when it comes to solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u86	The last thing we must want is a major redesign of the whole system. Then you're years away, and it's not gonna work. Both the euro and membership of the European Union is vital for the Netherlands. Without the euro, I am convinced that we would have been devastated in the 2008 crisis, with our guilder and our very large banking sector five to six times the balance sheet total of the Dutch economy. It was a blessing that we had the euro in that great crisis of 2008-2009. It has been and still is vital to us. The same applies to membership of the European Union, with the internal market, for two reasons. 2.1 million jobs in the Netherlands depend directly on our exports. Most of it goes to Europe. The second reason is the geopolitical embedding. We are the sixth country in terms of size of the economy of the 28 European Member States, but of course we are not a large country. We need this embedding in Europe because it also offers security in a very unstable geopolitical situation. For these two reasons, I will fight until the last moment against people who want to plunge the Netherlands into the same economic, financial and constitutional crisis as Britain has now done with the Brexit. It is incredibly unwise and goes directly against all the interests of the Netherlands. What you should not do is now move on to major redesigns, such as at more speeds, which we already have, and all kinds of other things. No, we just have to keep the rules. I spoke recently in Meseberg, a castle near Berlin, with colleagues from Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. We agreed that we have everything. We have the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. We have the European Commission. We have the acquis. We actually have everything we need. We also have a European Commission which has said: we must move towards a Europe of core tasks. I'm very happy about that. We must move away from a Europe that interferes with everything. We need to move towards a Europe that focuses on a strong economy, security of external borders and a common approach to asylum policy. So back to the core tasks. That's all going well. In practice, however, it is extremely difficult to take decisions and maintain solidarity, for example in the case of refugees, with Hungary and other countries in Eastern Europe taking their share. You can't solve that with a big redesign. This is solved by a step-by-step "schrittt vor schritt" to solve the problem. We're working hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u87	You say that it cannot be the case that some countries in Europe do comply with budgetary rules and other countries do not. So we have done so and have been very strict. I think it cost us a lot of money. I call the analysis of Bas Jacobs and so on. What does this mean? What is the consequence of this? Otherwise it will remain such a powerless mantra that countries that do comply with the rules say: those countries that do not comply should have consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u88	I can see absolutely improvement on that front. There is an increasing degree of agreement that you cannot continue with a situation where the President of the Commission says: a particular country is too big to tackle. You don't hear that anymore. We spoke very firmly about this: Dijsselbloem in his discussions and I with colleagues in the European Council. What I would like to outline is that we currently have a number of very difficult issues, from solidarity in the area of refugees to the enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact and a number of issues between them. On each of these subjects we know exactly what we want, we build our coalitions and we are making progress. But it is not an easy stage for the European Union at the moment. I say this as Prime Minister of a country that has an improbably great interest in ensuring that the European Union and the euro run smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u89	I think that many people here in the Chamber agree with the Prime Minister that European standards should apply to everyone. This also means that everyone must be called upon to do so. I refer to the 3% standard. I just fell over two comments. One is that every thought of making a first start with some countries on a single subject, i.e. developing multiple speeds in Europe, is by definition covered by the concept of redesign. "We should not begin to do this, because that would destroy the whole of the Union"; that was a bit of the Prime Minister's reasoning. I don't really understand. The other point on which I would like to hear a little more is the Prime Minister's next reasoning. Because we have agreed in Europe that there are Spitzen candidates, where the candidate of the largest party in the European Parliament has a pre-sorting position for the Presidency of the European Commission, it is all going less well and it is all getting more political. As if it is not political when the European Heads of State or Government appoint someone to the European Council. Can you explain that further? It seems almost as if you are advocating a completely administrative, non-political President of the European Commission, who, by the way, must be extremely important, powerful and authoritative, but does not have to take political responsibility or have political support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u90	That's my point of view based on my experience. The European Council is the political body. This includes the Heads of State or Government who give political direction to the Union, in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon. The European Council has been given its place as one of the three pillars, as an independent institution. Parliament has also been given a number of tasks. Then you've got the Commission. It is extremely important for a country like the Netherlands. The Commission shall ensure a level playing field and fair implementation of all rules. The Commission ensures that the interests of the smaller countries are monitored vis-à-vis the larger countries. What have we done now? I cannot reverse it, but I think that if we have the General Political Reviews together in the First Chamber, we should have the courage to discuss these difficult issues with each other. We have said in the various political families, including mine, that we are going to work with Spitzen candidates, with some sort of list guides. The Commission is a large, primarily administrative and supervisory organisation. If you put someone at the head of it who results from an election with listers, you make that body political by definition. That's inevitable. There has been a campaign and the candidates have been on television. They have said everything they wanted to say and have presented their programme. Of course, it is not the case that the Commission, like the government in a Member State, such as this two-party government, is very political. I understand that it does not go that far, but I note from the functioning of the European Commission that it has made this institution more political. I don't blame Juncker; not at all. But I think it's a bad development. Then I can go barking to the moon, but there's no point at all. This is a fact and we are not changing it. Okay, that may be the case, but now on that front we have to ensure that the Commission continues to carry out its task. We are working on this together, in a coalition with other countries. It is one of the points I have just mentioned in response to Mr Kuiper's interruption. On the other point, I agree that I have been unclear about this. I've been taken on my own not at multiple speeds. They're already here. We already have Schengen. We have the eurozone. We have countries that work together at the financial transaction tax, FTT. Fortunately, they are not yet out, but 10 or 11 Member States are working on this. We're not one of them. So you already have all kinds of groups of countries working on each other. In itself, that's not bad at all. With nine countries, you can do things through enhanced cooperation. I say to Mr Kuiper: after six years in the European Council, I have come to the conclusion that if things don't go well on several fronts, you won't solve it with a grand design. The only way is to pull the knot out step by step. I have also cheated off my German colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u91	I will not start a debate here about grand design or the finalité politicique or anything like that. We have done so in previous years, but not now. I think it is wise, given the perhaps desolate situation in which Europe sometimes finds itself, the Prime Minister is rather anxious to opt for the step-by-step approach now. This does not mean, however, that you should not always try to maintain that Europe is a political project.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u92	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u93	A political project also means a political direction. I continue to be surprised at the fact that the Prime Minister actually sees the European Commission as more of a kind of administrative body that should also be overseen. Almost a judicial and administrative body, rather than a political body. But we in the Netherlands have also put a politician in the European Commission. Other countries do, too. Then it is logical that the Commission should function as a political body, with a relationship of accountability with the European Parliament. It is therefore logical that there should be support in the European Parliament. For example, you organize that via such a Spitzenkandidat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u94	Frans Timmermans didn't come out of an election. He has been appointed by the Netherlands, has said 'yes', is sitting there now and is doing very well. This was not the result of an election between different candidates. If you do, it is likely that the prime candidates of the larger political parties will be able to lead the one who is the largest in the elections after the formation of such a cabinet. We know from Joop den Uyl that you can be the biggest and can't run the cabinet, but let's hope it ends up a little more predictable this time. Surely it is inevitable that such a person is politically coloured? There's no other way, is there? I don't blame Juncker or anyone else, but that is a consequence of that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u95	That's a very nice equation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u96	The Commission is not a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u97	Finally, Mr De Graaf on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u98	That's a very nice comparison from the Prime Minister. Surely the Prime Minister would not be much less good or even better if he had not been given a political position as Prime Minister through elections? Your example of yourself and of this cabinet shows that you can organize it so well in Europe. Let the leading politicians gain support in the European Parliament and then form the political governance of Europe. There is nothing against that, but you are opposed to it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u99	Because the Commission is not a government! Fortunately, the Commission is not a government, because that is the last thing you want. The European Parliament is not a parliament, but it is something quite different. We call it a parliament, but of course it is not a parliament as we sit here. That's just the way it is. Mr De Graaf does not like that, because he has a very different idea about making Europe more federal. In the Europe that I have in mind and which this government is working on, we want to keep the institutions pure and the Commission is not a government. The European Parliament is not a parliament like a national parliament, but a very different body with very specific powers. If you were to make the Commission political where it is actually a supervisory body, the head of an administration, then you could, so to speak, give our secretaries-general consultation a political chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u100	Mr de Graaf, a very small comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u101	I'm glad the Minister's backing back on what he just said, because I really didn't think I heard it right. The European Parliament is indeed a fully-fledged parliament, and if it is not, we must ensure that it becomes a fully-fledged parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u102	No, you need to strengthen the national parliaments, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u103	You can never make everyone happy. As Thom the Earl gets angrier, I get happier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u104	He wasn't angry, we had a nice discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u105	Then let me call it politically angry. The Prime Minister made three comments which make me happy, because I feel more like him than Thom de Graaf. At the same time, there is something powerless in it. I agree with him: one of the major problems of European cooperation is that we have derailed the European Commission and made it a political body. Thom de Graaf still has trouble with that, but in the long run we will find that was a big mistake. As a result, we have rigged the European Union with something that should never have been in it. The Prime Minister says: I can't help it, it goes on and on and I'm not going to bark at the moon. I would like to ask if the Prime Minister wants to be a little more creative, especially if he gets the support of a large group in this Chamber like mine, to think about how we can stop that process. It started once, it wasn't in the construction, but we came up with it. Secondly, the Prime Minister says that we do not need anything else in the EU. The only thing missing is the political will. We do not have them, and that is why sanctions have never been imposed against large countries. It was always the small countries that were threatened. If you have everything but the political will, shouldn't it be the conclusion that the European construction really doesn't help you? I also very much agree with his third remark that we should return to the core tasks. If that is what we want, why are we now going to decorate the EU with a military component, with a defence component? This is not the EU's core task, is it? I very much support you: going back to the core tasks, seeing that we have everything but that the political will is lacking and that the political content of the European Commission disappears. How are we going to realize that? I would say: a little more activism, Prime Minister; a little less pessimistic that you are not doing anything about it. I want to challenge you to that, just as Thom the Count challenged you. Let him say what he wants, but I agree with you. It's not going to be the federalism of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u106	I see that there is a build-up of subjects that are difficult to deal with in Europe. I have just outlined that and will not repeat it. Mr Kox says that we are looking at this passively, but we are not. I outline that we are working on each of these subjects with concrete proposals from the Dutch Government, often with broad support from the Chambers, to seek solutions. They're working on it. I cannot solve one problem, and that is the Commission's more political approach. The Commission has a duty, regardless of its right of initiative, to ensure the implementation of treaties and legislation, such as the Stability and Growth Pact. That's a risk, but we did it all together. It is not regulated anywhere in the treaty, but the political formations have done so, including mine. The EPP and the European Social Democratic Family have come with the Spitzenkandidat. As a result, the whole system has become more political. Jean-Claude Juncker is perfectly capable of this, but there is always a risk that the functioning of someone elected from the political process will become more political. That's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u107	Mr Kox has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u108	Perhaps I can say one more thing to answer a possible question from Mr Kox. I'm not appointed to worry, but to solve problems. I'll outline to you what problems there are and how we'll solve them. I do find in the General Reviews in the First Chamber that the least I can do is to share with you things that go less well, what we see then and how we solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u109	If we agree that making the European Commission more political is a mistake that we have all made, let us put it this way without pointing fingers, then we should be able to ask the Dutch Government how we are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u110	No, that's a matter for the parties, that's not the government's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u111	In any case, you can call on the political parties in the Netherlands to return from that wrong path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u112	That's not my job. I'm Prime Minister, and if I point one finger at you, four point at myself. The VVD, like D66, has just as well participated. Mr De Graaf loves that and we disagree with each other. This is not a matter for the cabinet, it is a matter for the political parties that have increasingly gone to the process of the Spitzen candidates with the idea that it will live in Europe and that Europe will live with the citizens. That is, of course, a fallacy, because the President of the European Commission is not, in the end, the President of the Government. The Commission is not a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u113	Let us then note that the government, at least this Prime Minister, whom I assume he is speaking on behalf of the government, believes that the politicisation of the European Commission has been a wrong development. He can't help it, but we should strive to undo those mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u114	The concern throughout the cabinet is that the European Commission should operate as low as possible politically. I keep my analysis of the lead candidates to myself for a while, because I have not been able to check with my social democratic colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u115	I miss the Prime Minister's explanation of the fact that there is a huge gap between many European citizens and the European Union, the institutions. The idea of making it more political came from the search for ways of involving citizens in political decision-making in Europe. I think you should look at it in that light. Is it becoming more political the Commission's problem, or is it the fact that Member States do not accept that the Commission is becoming more political? If that is the case, you can also say that the Member States should get used to it and learn to accept Commission decisions. That is a different matter from saying that it should be more politically neutral, because the Member States are in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u116	The problem is that it is not in our interest for this Commission to become more political, apart from the fact that its functioning is less effective. The Netherlands has always known two cornerstones for foreign policy in Europe. The one cornerstone was that we are Community and not intergovernmental. We want a strong Commission, but we want it to play its part. The second cornerstone is that we see a role in continuing to seek a balance in Europe between England, France and Germany. These have always been two cornerstones of our European foreign policy. The first one remains an important cornerstone. I will take this analysis on my own account, but I can say on behalf of the whole cabinet that there is a politicisation of decision-making. That's a fact. We must be very keen on it, Mr Dijsselbloem, and I work here with others every day to ensure that the Commission remains keen on its role, especially as regards the monitoring role of the Commission, the level playing field in Europe. On the second point, Brexit, of course, also has a huge impact on relations in Europe. Europe will become more etatistic with an outgoing England. Europe will be less free-trade-oriented. This is inevitable, because England had a very specific voice in the European discourse. Here too, the Netherlands will have to look for a new balance in Europe. Within our role as the sixth economy of the 28 European economies, we are not so small in economic strength, only in surface areas, we will have to find a new balance. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u117	I agree with you that this supervisory role is extremely important. I would also like Member States to address each other more in the Council, so that it is not only dependent on steps taken by the Commission. You said just between some rules that the European Parliament may be somewhat more limited as far as you are concerned. Can you explain that? You referred to this in relation to the national parliaments. I'd say they're complementary to each other. The national parliament controls the ministers in the Council of Ministers, but the European Parliament is a crucial counterpartner for the Council at the European level. That can never be corrected by a national parliament. I would like to see the European Parliament's position strengthened in those areas where it does not work, especially if we want to increase the involvement of citizens. I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u118	That is where I would believe that the European Parliament has been given sufficient powers, also in the light of the changes that result from Lisbon, and that it is now particularly important to further strengthen the role of national parliaments. We're working on this, too. After each European Council, I have a plenary debate in the House of Representatives. There are also regular debates about Europe in the First Chamber. The Dutch Parliament, I think, can shake hands in this. In addition, we are still looking for additional powers to be found in the different colour card procedures. The intensive dialogue is important to ensure that I, either Jeroen Dijsselbloem or Henk Kamp or whoever goes to Brussels can do the work with support once or twice. It's going well. It is not that I want to give the European Parliament less powers. I just said it's not a parliament as we know it here. We call it 'Parliament', but it has some very specific tasks that are quite different from those of the national parliament, if only because there is no government against that Parliament. There is no government; there is a European Council and there is a Commission, but there is no European government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u119	Mr Ten Hoeve, you may ask one short question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u120	He hasn't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u121	I think you've talked more than enough about this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u122	I understand you've had enough, Mr. Chairman, I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u123	I think it's been chewed out enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u124	Despite that. The Prime Minister's idea of not calling the European Parliament a parliament is an extremely strange twist. The regulation of the Treaty of Lisbon is that decisions are made on the one hand by the powers of the states, the Council and, on the other hand, those of the European Parliament. In making decisions, Member States play a role, in this sense similar to a Bundesrat in a federal system, and a parliament. If you do not call this a parliament, what is the role of this European Parliament in that decision-making? How would you characterize that if you didn't call it a parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u125	The only thing I said, Mr President, but this has caused a lot of confusion, and that is my fault, is that it is not a parliament like the Dutch Parliament, in which you have a government and a First and Second Chamber that jointly legislate and supervise its implementation by the government. That is a very different relationship from that of the European Parliament vis-à-vis the European Council. But, you know, I'm just gonna call it "Parliament'; I'm gonna give this to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u126	Mr Ten Hoeve, really, you also have a second term!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u127	I see he's not satisfied yet. Yeah, with a capital p.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u128	Mr Ten Hoeve, very, very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u129	Parliament has no supervisory powers vis-à-vis the Council, but it has powers over the decisions taken. You can see this, for example, when it comes to controlling car emissions. In the end, it is Parliament that is going to check whether things are going well or not. Parliament has supervisory powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u130	This is certainly the case in European legislation. We agree. I keep calling it 'Parliament' when we agree that it works slightly differently because of the fact that there are three institutions, while we are dealing with two institutions in the Netherlands. That's actually the only point I wanted to make. Once again, there is no doubt about that, there are problems and we are working to resolve them, but I would like to share them with you. The second main point that emerged was the Ukraine referendum. We sent a letter on this matter to the House of Representatives yesterday. A few questions have been asked about it. I'm not going to read the letter here, because you've all received the letter. We are looking for a legally binding solution that does justice to the no vote, but at the same time we are trying to find a way through which we are also able to maintain the association agreement. We are doing this for a few reasons. It is true that any non-ratification by the Netherlands will have an impact on the European Union, on the Member States and on Ukraine. It will also have political repercussions. It also has implications for stability on the European eastern border and for relations with Russia. The Dutch non-ratification will directly affect Moscow, especially since Russian foreign policy is becoming more offensive and increasingly focused on interference with other countries, look at Eastern Ukraine, the occupation of Crimea and other things that happen in former Soviet states. The second reason is that the non-ratification of the Netherlands could potentially increase instability in Ukraine. The main argument why I am so motivated to see if I can find a solution, together with the First and Second Chambers and also with the European colleagues at first, is that I think it is very important that Europe remains united, especially at the moment when it comes to the important issue of stability and instability at the external border. If we remove our signature from the Ukraine Treaty, it is more than that one treaty and it has more consequences than just Ukraine, it also weakens the common European position on this instability at the external border. As I have just said, Europe is not only the market, yes, I am from the VVD and I am very much in favour of the market, but in addition to the community of values also an embedding for a country like the Netherlands in a strong European cooperation. It'll protect you. As a Member State, we must do everything in our power to ensure that the collective image that we have, that posture, is maintained as much as possible. That motivates me to find a way between the no vote on the one hand and the search for an opportunity to maintain that association agreement on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u131	There's nothing wrong with finding ways out in difficult situations. I wish the Prime Minister every success in that respect. In the letter, he formulates six hard points that should somehow become part of the Association Treaty: no stepping-up to EU membership, no collective security guarantee, no military cooperation obligation, no right of access to the labour market, no financial support obligation and anti-corruption as a central element of the Treaty. How does the Prime Minister intend to do that? These are points which should be included in the preamble or which should be included in an article in the objectives. Corruption is mentioned in Article 22 (2) (d), I believe. How does he want to realize that? Striving is interesting, but how does he intend, if he wishes to have included these points in the preamble, in the article on objectives or in any other place within the Treaty which has a binding effect, to achieve that? This was discussed when the Association Agreement was concluded and the points that the Prime Minister is now putting forward were all rejected in that negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u132	That's what we write in the letter. In fact, we are looking for a legally binding declaration by the Heads of State or Government meeting in the framework of the European Council, a little similar to what the British did in February. It is therefore not a conclusion of the European Council, but a decision by the Heads of State or Government, legally binding, in which we address these six points, specifically in the fight against corruption. I agree with Mr Kox on this point. That is precisely one of the reasons for us to make this a spearhead. When I am talking to the politicians, and certainly to President Poroshenko, we talk about this very regularly, precisely to help the Ukrainian Government to combat that corruption. I can inform the Chamber that Ukraine has now adopted a law on the disclosure of assets of government officials and politicians. Mr Kox quoted that. I also see this as positive, which contributes to the necessary transparency. There are all sorts of figures coming out that raise new questions. I have said it before: Ukraine will not become Switzerland in five years; that will really take time. However, I think it is important, once again with a view to stability on the outskirts of Europe, that we help Ukraine in the fight against corruption. That is one of six elements that we want to address in a legally binding declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u133	Is a legally binding declaration then an amendment to the Treaty? If it is not, we have provisions in the Treaty that are contradicted in this declaration. Article 10 talks about military cooperation. If the addendum states that there will be no military cooperation, it will conflict. If the Prime Minister says that the fight against corruption is a core task, it should be in Article 1 of the Treaty and not hidden somewhere. The Prime Minister may try to solve the quadrature of the circle, but so far it has not been possible and in the next six weeks I do not see the Prime Minister either. Doesn't he make us happy or angry, or whatever, with a suggestion that isn't feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u134	I think we can do this. We have, of course, had a lot of conversations behind the scenes. It is all sensitive and it will not be easy to get it done, but I think this is feasible. On these six points, we ask colleagues to clarify a number of issues and to establish them legally. This also addresses the main points raised in the discussion in the Netherlands, which, moreover, were also mentioned by the initiators themselves in many cases before and after the referendum as the main points in the referendum debate. Those points are also worth addressing. That goes from the fact that it is not pre-accession to the point that it is not about extra money. All these things are mentioned in the letter. I believe that this is valuable, that it is right to vote 'no' and that we are doing it in a legally binding way, so that we ensure that the 'no' vote is heard, without jeopardising collective European appearance and effectiveness in promoting stability at the edges of Europe. Perhaps I can also answer Mr De Graaf's question immediately in this connection, if we could not have said this before 6 April? I intend not to defend myself too much on this point, especially when it comes to the accusation that we are taking too much time. I said in the letter that we are indeed taking a great deal of time. I realize that this is a source of irritation, and I understand that. However, I would like to make a small defence on this point. The element of stability at the borders of Europe and the importance of building the rule of law were mentioned by me and others, on 30 March in Nieuwsuur, on 2 April in the Algemeen Dagblad, on 5 April in the Metro, on 6 April on the radio, on a number of other places and also very regularly at press conferences after the Councils of Ministers. We have mentioned the argument that it is a trade treaty, but that it is also about stability and also promoting the construction of the legal street in Ukraine. We have mentioned this at various times before 6 April. I would have liked to have said this once, and then I accept all the criticism of the time we take. I did so in the letter, because I think that criticism is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u135	Mrs. Strik, may I ask you to keep the microphone arm-length?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u136	Thanks for the tip. Then I can talk quietly. Others already knew the geopolitical arguments and used them in the campaign, but perhaps the Prime Minister became aware of them a little later. I'm trying to be a little more specific about what the meaning of that legally binding statement might be. The Prime Minister made a comparison with the package agreed for the United Kingdom, but it contained all kinds of agreements on legislation that would be adapted at the time the United Kingdom would remain a member of the European Union. I read that statement on the association agreement in this way: the treaty does not mean this and it does not mean that. We give a red apple to Ukraine and we make a statement that that apple is not yellow. That's how I see it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u137	It's a little more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u138	... because there is no accession obligation in the Treaty, military cooperation is optional only and there is no access to free movement. In short, all these six points are not being discussed at the moment. So I wonder what the legally binding declaration could change to the meaning of the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u139	Here's what I'm saying. There has been a lot of talk about the Treaty, including by leading politicians in Europe. For example, about pre-accession, many things have been said by senior politicians in Europe, as well as about the way in which this treaty should be seen, also as an advocacy to... It has been criticised by the Socialist Party and by other parties opposed to the Ukraine Association Agreement. It is therefore worth noting that this Treaty is not about pre-accession. It is not for nothing that this is one of the most sensitive elements that we currently experience in the European debate when we informally scan what we want to achieve. They say: 'Oh, should we now record that?' You'll see right away that it does have a meaning. As we see in the Netherlands, when we make legislation, which is important not only for that law, but also for the history of law, what has been discussed here in the Chambers and what the judges say, also applies to an association agreement which has its relevance not only to the agreement itself, but also to what is said about it in the discussion, especially by leading politicians with a wide range. The one about pre-accession. The declaration may also contain matters which may not be covered by the Treaty, but which make explicit what is meant by it, in order to avoid problems of interpretation later. There's always that risk. This is, for example, on the point of whether cooperation can lead to some sort of collective security guarantee, such as NATO. That is not what it says, but if you read the various paragraphs in conjunction with each other, there could be a difference of interpretation. We can then make this legally binding, also knowing that this was a key issue in the debate during the referendum debate. I would like to mention Mr Nijman van GeenStijl. He said that the association agreement with Ukraine should not be thrown into the trash, but that the treaty should be looked at seriously in Brussels, especially the section on military cooperation and political integration. Mr Nijman was one of the initiators. He said that the treaty didn't have to go into the trash in the face of a no-vote, but that these points had to be addressed. Mr Baudet said at Pauw on 7 April that they were working on a coalition-wide approach. He mentioned Peter van Ham van Clingendael, Forum for Democracy, Harry van Bommel, Paul Cliteur, in short all the people who belonged to the intellectual neekamp, in order to draw up a manifesto in which the Prime Minister would be given what they thought should be negotiated. We have not heard much more about this manifesto, but Mr Baudet, too, felt that the treaty should not be thrown into the garbage can, but that it could be useful to make further agreements in Europe, just as we are doing at the moment. I think we can do this. In doing so, we are legally binding on some of these issues. We have now defined six, with which I believe you can also say to the no-comb: this may not be exactly what you wanted, but it is already a multilateral treaty, so even if we withdraw our signature, it will cause great damage, just the political effects of it. I have just outlined all of these: the appearance of Europe on Russia and other countries around us, on Ukraine, on Europe, on cooperation as a whole, and on Europe as an effective player on the global playing field. That political fact is then there, while at the same time you run the risk of many of those elements coming back into force later in other forms. You can do it all in one go. I think that has added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u140	The way I hear it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u141	Very briefly, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u142	...the Prime Minister has interpreted the concerns. Nothing is going to change the content, but the Prime Minister thinks he can take care away by declaring that those concerns are not really at issue. That is his interpretation and that is his decision to try to regulate it that way. Soon we will have to assess whether this indeed meets the concerns of people in the Netherlands to a sufficient extent. I have one more question. Is this the best the Prime Minister can see for himself? Are there any other scenarios and are they being discussed? I'm thinking of an out for the Netherlands. Or is this the only thing with which the Prime Minister is now going to Brussels to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u143	This is a lot. I can assure Mrs Strik that there were quite a few chokings when we came to the informal talks. I think it's doable. To put it very clearly, I do not think you are ever going to achieve anything in Europe where everyone who voted no says: now I am completely happy. That's not gonna happen, because a lot of no-votes are yelling: no is no. Then I say: yes, then you have a number of effects: the great damage I have just outlined in the European image towards the region, the stability at the edges of Europe and the effectiveness of Europe to make this kind of agreement with other countries in the Dutch interest, while at the same time you will see that 'no is no' does not come true, because many things continue in a different way. Eventually, you'll never do it right there. I therefore think it would be useful to consider how to link the various interests as closely as possible. However, let us not have the illusion that by mid-December you will get the no-camp on the couch, like: Rutte has achieved a great result. I don't expect that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u144	May I also ask you to put your interruption as briefly as possible, Mr Koffeman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u145	Of course. The Prime Minister is talking about a legally binding declaration. I am curious to see what legal possibilities and what mandate he sees for Mr Nijman or Mr Baudet, who cannot negotiate anything on their behalf. They have no mandate. The law does not state that, following the outcome of that referendum, applicants for referendums are authorised to negotiate with anyone. So I don't understand that very well. I voted no myself and I do not feel represented by Mr Baudet or Mr Nijman. The Prime Minister should understand that, too. I am also curious about that legally binding statement. The Prime Minister has said a lot about this, but in no way does it make any sense to know what this legal link is. Many experts say that this will be a footnote in the Treaty, for domestic use, and that it will have no further significance for the elaboration of the Convention. Finally, the Prime Minister says: I am from the market. I understand that, but there are also people in that market who say: my market is ruined by this. I rarely stand here as spokesman for the poultry breeders, but Gert-Jan Oplaat, your colleague within the VVD, says this is a huge disturbance of the level playing field. We cannot breed chickens here if chicken farms are being built just across Europe, with the support of Dutch banks, which can produce under conditions that we cannot meet. Can the Prime Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u146	On the first point, I would like to say that we do not ask for a mandate from anyone. The cabinet will assume its responsibility and negotiate this in Brussels. I merely outlined that the firm view 'no is no' is in any case interpreted differently by the initiators. They have indeed said that there is a route in which you can formulate a substantive answer to the referendum. I quote that. I'll leave that for them. We're not having dinner with them. At the request of the Lower House, however, Bert Koenders tried, but that was not possible. The second point is that the misunderstanding in the media was that the Netherlands was going to make a kind of one-sided statement, and it was no misunderstanding, but it was thought that we were going to do so because we hadn't told it so precisely ourselves: this is how we see it. But no, this is something else, this is an explanation from the 28 countries. This is not a statement by the Netherlands of: we see the treaty as such. No, this is a statement by 28 countries on how we address six serious points which could lead to uncertainty, which could lead to uncertainty in connection with the public debate or lead to problems of interpretation later. We address all six of them. And now comes the problem that I can only remember two things. Mr Koffeman asked a third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u147	The third point was about Gert-Jan Oplaat, VVD'er and henfokker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u148	Gert-Jan Oplaat is always important. With every trade agreement, there will be people who win and lose. It is my conviction, however, that all the experts say this: the trade part of the association agreement with Ukraine has, on balance, great positive effects for the Netherlands. However, there will always be sectors where this works differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u149	I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question. Even if this is a statement from 28 countries that all want the treaty to go through and say, "You need a footnote for domestic use, you know what: we are thinking along with that footnote of yours," it is not going to have any effective meaning. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u150	That's not right. It is not a footnote from us that they think along with. No, it's a statement from 28 countries and not from the Netherlands with the support of the other 27 countries. It's a statement from the 28 countries. That's the difference. This has also been the subject of a misunderstanding in the media in recent weeks. I do not blame the media for this, because we had not yet given them any openness. We didn't do that until now in this letter. We have always had this plan since the beginning of the summer. We started the informal talks when colleagues in Brussels opened up to them. The first few months after the referendum, they were only working on the Brexit referendum. However, we have always talked about a ruling of 28 countries and not about a ruling of the Netherlands, a ruling of the Netherlands approving the other 27 countries or a ruling of which they are aware. No, this is a decision of 28 countries, which legally binding on six points how to interpret it, so that there are no misunderstandings, that things will develop differently in conjunction, et cetera, et cetera. I think that's valuable. The decision will never give rise to great and total enthusiasm among the no-voters. I realize that, and we need to be clear about that. That's the way it is. However, it is the only way to do as much justice as possible. At the same time, it ensures the effectiveness of Europe in protecting our interests in terms of stability. The instability has only become worse in recent months. Especially when you look at the increasingly offensive foreign policy, I find it exactly the wrong signal to say as the Netherlands: you know what, we get our signature off. That is what I thought in March and April. I just outlined those moments. But let us also be realistic about the fact that the situation between Europe and Russia has not improved in recent months. The fact alone that, at the last European Council, no one has started to weaken sanctions for Eastern Ukraine and Crimea, which at first threatened to do so, is proof that there is an increasing degree of consensus in the European Council, and also in those countries which were more sophisticated about these sanctions, that there is no possibility of alleviating these sanctions. That's not gonna happen anymore. And then, of course, there is the Russian role in Syria, where Europe is also trying to play and take a role, in order to help end the terrible tragedy there. Then a question was asked about the evaluation of the Wrr, the Advisory referendum Act. It will be there by 1 July 2018. Then we will also see whether adjustments are needed, as suggested here by speakers in the first term. That's in accordance with the law. A completely different theme under the heading 'international' is the issue of refugees. We try to address this as much as possible in a structural way. I also feel a great deal of support for this in the two Chambers of Parliament. Mr Brinkman referred to this. Last year, at the beginning of September, the cabinet sent a letter stating that you need to go as far as possible to a situation of reception in the region and that you are then willing to bring people from that region to Europe if the pressure is too great. The agreements with Turkey are exactly in line with that: taking people in the region, putting money into them and supporting them and, if the pressure gets too strong, staying ready to bring people to Europe through resettlement programmes. And indeed, I say to Mrs Jorritsma and others, we want to try to make similar agreements with priority countries, but they will also be very different by their nature and character, because Africa shows a very different flow of refugees than Syria and Turkey. Some of these elements are reflected in the compacts with Lebanon, Jordan, Nigeria, Mali, Ethiopia and a few more countries in Africa, in order to ensure that these things go ahead. Yes, it concerns Niger, Mali, Senegal, Nigeria and Ethiopia. We see the effects of this, especially from the agreements with Turkey. There has been a huge decrease: the number of crossings has decreased by about 90%-95%. There must be no doubt that the Netherlands rejects the death penalty in Turkey. I have discussed with the Turkish President that we have great concerns about this. For us, that is really not acceptable. I must also say that there is currently no concrete proposal to re-introduce the death penalty. There is, however, a great deal of rhetoric, as well as statements by the President about it. However, there is no concrete proposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u151	The latter will know the Prime Minister better than I do, because I can only rely on the newspapers in which this was announced. My first question was whether, if the death penalty is introduced there, the Prime Minister will see a future at all for the deal which, on the left or right, still offers a certain prospect of a stronger connection with the European Union, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u152	The latter is not true. There are no agreements in the migration agreements to strengthen links with the European Union. There is a separate path for accession. That route is very difficult and I see that in the coming years it will not lead to much either. There is a journey around visa liberalisation, but that has been going on since 2011. The only agreement within the framework of the Turkey agreements was to speed things up from October this year, and we have now missed that deadline to July. July didn't work out, so that turned out to be October again and now October has passed. Furthermore, there are no links with accession in the agreements on migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u153	This means that if such a bill were to be tabled and accepted there, it would not have any effect on the agreements reached with Turkey on the refugee drama.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u154	I don't expect that, unless things happen in Turkey. One element in the agreements with Turkey is the bilateral Greek-Turkish agreements on the return of people. That's all taken care of very precisely. If I told you what might happen there, I'd speculate. I have no reason to believe that there would be a link between that type of legislation and the refugee agreements. It does, of course, have an effect on the accession negotiations, because that would, of course, affect a number of fundamental European values. The whole process has been very difficult. Apart from that, the Netherlands is committed to making it clear that we are strongly opposed to the death penalty. This applies to the whole of the European Union. I'll come back to the deal on resettlement. After France, the Netherlands is the leader in Europe. In a recent speech by President Obama, he believed us for taking the lead. I have just outlined that it is difficult, because there are considerable differences of opinion in Europe among the 28 Member States on the implementation of these agreements resulting from the JHA Council of 8 October last year, the QMV decision taken there. This leads to violent reactions in Hungary and other countries. We can all perceive that. As far as I am concerned, there is an element of solidarity in Europe under discussion. I have just mentioned this in my list of concerns that we address, because of course that is not good. The Netherlands takes its responsibility there. With regard to foreign influence of religious communities through, for example, funding, this has also been discussed in depth in the House of Representatives. A motion has also been adopted on this. We are looking very carefully at this because, of course, this motion has a link between the issue of combating extremism on the one hand and freedom of religion on the other. That is a very precarious balance. We are currently in the process of providing that motion with a response. We will need the time limit mentioned in the motion for a resolution, because it is a very complex issue, including in the legal field. We're gonna figure that out and then we're gonna inform the Chamber about that. That is about the motion of the House of Representatives on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u155	I would like to say a few words about the motion adopted in the House of Representatives on the financing of the Turkish mosques by Diyanet. What specific measures does the Prime Minister intend to take? He'll tip us off that we have freedom of religion. That's right. Article 6 deals with freedom of religion. Paragraph 1 says you can think what you want, because fortunately we don't have a mind police here. However, paragraph 2 states that the expressions resulting from a religion must be in line with the laws and regulations. Then I come back to these mosques, which are financed by Diyanet. That's also Erdogan's mouthpiece. People are just getting excited. Then we are not talking so much about religion, but about a piece of safety analysis, a risk analysis on safety. Why can't such a mosque just be dealt with under the flag of security?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u156	I just said this. The motion for a resolution was then tabled by the chairman of the Christian Democratic Group, Mr Buma. We can meet the deadline, but we do need it because it is a complex issue. Then we'll deal with all these cases. I am not going to respond to a partial aspect, because it needs to be seen in conjunction. The whole issue of radicalisation, its risks, foreign influence and freedom of religion requires a precarious balance in response. All this must be legally and constitutionally correct. We're not gonna take a quick hit here. I'm not gonna respond to a part either, because then I'm gonna pull one element out and tear down the whole building. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u157	To be honest, it is an unsatisfactory answer, because it has been going on for years and it has been known for years. So the Prime Minister could never have fallen raw on his roof. Reports have been written on the financing of Turkish mosques, so it has been known for a long time. The problem in the Netherlands is often that people do not dare to deal with these issues, because they are afraid to be thrown away as racist. It is better to take a risk in terms of safety than to risk being thrown away as a racist. In fact, we can simply maintain on the basis of security and intervene. I don't understand why it's taking so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u158	All the motives that Mrs Faber is suggesting here are nonsense. I said that we would come forward with a response within the time limit of the motion. I agree with those who say that a guideline of Dutch-foreign policy is the constitutional task of promoting the international legal order. Let us note that we have an unprecedented period of peace and prosperity in Europe and in modern history. We also owe this to a number of strong European traditions of respect for law and respect for one another. That is and remains the guiding principle of Dutch foreign policy. I would like to thank those who have underlined this here. I'm coming to Syria. I agree with those who say that we need to act more forcefully and unitedly in Syria as a Europe. It has been put forward by the Labour Party. Others have also touched it. I agree. In a world order in which we, as individual small and medium-sized countries, are less and less able to do so, it is extremely important that you as a European Union can do so strongly. That is why we are active in this area in the European Union, Minister Koenders in particular, but also others in the Cabinet, to promote this, precisely because we are stronger there together. In relation to Russia, by acting together, we increase our influence and prevent Member States from being played apart. On 17 October, the Foreign Affairs Council and the European Council adopted a strong position vis-à-vis Syria. What can Europe actually do? The Netherlands is one of the leaders in European sanctions against Syria. The Netherlands contributes substantially to the European humanitarian and stability effort. The Netherlands is also leading the European Union diplomatically and politically. The High Representative, Mogherini, plays a positive role in this and has a maximum mandate to seek a solution on behalf of the Union. The Netherlands supports the recently announced efforts of the High Representative to intensify consultations on Syria. The Netherlands has advocated a place at the table of the High Representative in the ISSG, the International Syria Support Group, and other political fora. The Netherlands is also actively participating in the review of the Union's Syria-Iraq strategy. I would like to put Mr Brinkman's question to that. What are we going to do concretely in relation to Syria and with which allies? What are the more concrete pluses and minuses? He said we shouldn't keep setting the course of the day. I can only say that the Netherlands is also trying to contribute from a structural policy to solving these problems between the warring parties. We do so through financial support to the UN Envoy's office for Syria, through negotiation training for the moderate Syrian opposition and through the organisation of informal track II dialogues, where conflict parties and civil society talk about elements of a political transition. The Netherlands is of course very active in the fight against ISIS. The Chamber knows that all arrows are currently aimed at Mosul, but Raqqa in eastern Syria is also in sight. We all know that the threat of ISIS is multidimensional. This means that we must also use all aspects of foreign policy here. We must act in a military capacity. Look at the deployment of our military trainers in Iraq. I was able to visit them myself in August, both in Baghdad and the peshmerga area. I was very impressed. We need to be diplomatic. We do so in the multinational anti-ISIS coalition, but also through our commitment to the International Syria Support Group and through the Global Counterterrorism Forum, in which we are one of the leading parties. We are engaged in stabilisation activities in the region, for example by contributing to the clean-up of roadside bombs and the restoration of basic infrastructure in Iraq and Syria, so that displaced persons can return safely. So we are actively participating on all sides, but at the same time let us establish the following. What is currently happening in Mosul and Raqqa, positive, but with great risks, and the terrible situation at the moment in Aleppo, really require that we continue to do everything in our power and that we continue to promote that Europe is strong and that the High Representative can take good action towards Syria. Another question from Mr Brinkman was on the precarious subject of European cooperation in the field of security and defence policy. For this cabinet, NATO, the alliance, is the main cornerstone of our security policy. Transatlantic cooperation within NATO is at number one. However, you can see how, within the framework of European cooperation, you can ensure that there is a stronger European common security and defence policy. The changed security context also calls for this. We are actively contributing to this; see our contribution to the anti-piracy mission in Somalia and to the training of the Libyan Coast Guard. This afternoon, the President mentioned the abbreviation when the bill was dealt with; thank you for adopting it. I also refer to the civilian mission in Kosovo. We are in favour of the rapid development of the EU Global Strategy. I heard Mr Brinkman refer to the importance of a policy framework within which you take action. It is important that there is a strong external framework for external policy. As President, the Netherlands has promoted that the proposal was still dealt with at the European Council in July. It's accepted, too. In doing so, we focus on issues such as tackling external conflicts and crises, capacity building of partners affected by instability and fragility and, of course, protecting Europe. At the NATO summit in Warsaw in July, agreements were made to further strengthen cooperation. I stressed the importance of this cooperation at the summit, particularly in the areas of maritime security, cybersecurity and the fight against hybrid threats. So yes, the cabinet is for a robust European common security and defence policy, but that will always have to be embedded in our cooperation within the alliance. It must not work against or contrary to the great interests of this cooperation, but it must strengthen each other. I come to Mr De Graaf's question on the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u159	If the Dutch Government is in favour of enhanced European cooperation in the field of international security policy, it must not, of course, be at the expense of this, as I understand the Prime Minister, of cooperation in NATO, but it can be complementary to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u160	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u161	Could the Prime Minister also imagine, in this way, that we are organizing something institutionally, for example, a more joint action in terms of a headquarters for civil and military cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u162	The Netherlands has always been reluctant to do so. We really need to see the benefits of it. We want to understand the added value of all these points. There is always a risk in Europe that if you do things together, we will immediately start deciding in which capital the building should come into before we agree on what we want to achieve together and how it relates to other institutions that can do that. So first things first, step by step. It may well be necessary to coordinate a number of things centrally. That is fine, but that must be the end of such a discussion and not the start. The risk in Europe is that we start with the question of where the property comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u163	I do not think this is the start of this discussion, but it has been going on for some time. I understand that former Secretary-General of NATO is in favour of such an institutional design: a limited headquarters for civil-military organisations. So it's hard to say that we're just thinking about it. The question is whether the Dutch Government is prepared to give such initiatives a serious chance and to discuss them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u164	We are not going to lie squarely in front of it, but first we want to understand exactly what the added value is, so step by step. Are we tough on it and can it never happen? You should not do that either, because then you will make it just as institutional, as the discussions in Europe often do. Be pragmatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u165	How can the added value prove itself if it cannot prove itself because it is not there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u166	When you make policies, you try to imagine what the added value would be if it were there. That is what we do in our election programmes and everywhere. Also the policy of the VVD... of the D66 election programme has never been fully realised and yet Mr De Graaf believes in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u167	Well, not in the program of the VVD! I've never believed in that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u168	Mr De Graaf, please go through the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u169	You do that by imagining what the added value is when it's finished. It's called strategizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u170	Finally, a very small point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u171	I was just getting the last comment from the Prime Minister: this is called strategizing. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u172	Strategy development, a piece of vision, I would say to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u173	A plan, I would think in the direction of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u174	Yeah, sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u175	I finally figured out what the plan is. The Prime Minister says it should be considered. The first question is then why hasn't there been any thought. It is a well-known initiative and has been written about it more often. Former Secretary-General of NATO such as Mr De Hoop Scheffer and Mr Solana are behind this. I cannot imagine the Dutch Government saying to me now: well, we have to think about that at all, we have never done that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u176	The point is as follows. We are opposed to a European army and we are in favour of European defence cooperation where appropriate, also in addition to NATO. You can also look at structures, but you have to see an added value of them. My suspicion is a bit that we in Europe are too quick to decide on structures before we know exactly what the added value is. That's my point. Mr De Graaf also asked a good question about the UN Security Council. He asked how we could use the joint seat, even as a way of getting to a European seat. He is right that the Kingdom, including the countries of the West, wants to achieve an EU seat in the long term. In this case, the Kingdom and Italy were elected sovereign countries to the UN Security Council on the basis of campaigns with their own priorities. Because Italy has its own priorities and we have our priorities and because of course we did not expect us to sit on that seat together, it is not obvious to do so at the moment. Moreover, I have seen this split of the mandate between Italy and the Netherlands and also mentioned as a step towards increasing European cooperation in the UN Security Council, but we need to be real. This is really a long-term issue, also in the light of Brexit and its significance for the position of the P5. By the way, it was nice to see. We had the European Council. I was sitting at a corner of the table, Matteo Renzi, my Italian colleague, and we were both texting the whole world to make sure that one of us would reach the threshold. At some point it was 95-95. There has been hard work, especially by Aruba and Mike Eman, but also by Sint-Maarten and Curaçao, here in the Netherlands by Bert Koenders and the whole team and by our people in New York, Van Oosterom and his team. Anyway, we were 95-95 and we were texting. At some point Matteo Renzi sends me a text: Shall we share the seat? So I write back: Can I? We called our Foreign Ministers, who were in New York, and then it turned out they could. In that room they were overjoyed with this outcome, because then they could go home. This was already the sixth or seventh round; otherwise it would go on. The next day Matteo comes to me and he says: I have a big problem with the Italian press. I say: "Why then, because in the Netherlands they love it. In the Netherlands, we know that we are making compromises. We wanted that seat for two years and we have it for a year now, too." Yeah, it's part of the Netherlands. He says: in Italy they don't like it at all, it's either two years or zero. I say, "Well, we'll get him for two years." But that wasn't the answer either. In any case, it shows that you can work together in Europe. I liked the example of how we can cut a tricky knot. I'll see if there are any other cases. Many questions on foreign policy have now been dealt with in interruptions. Let me say something about non-proliferation in response to a question from Mrs Barth. As you know, we abstained on this. The situation is now that we are going to take four concrete steps. Firstly, we are going to participate in the negotiations on the Convention. We will start in March 2017. Secondly, the Non-Proliferation Treaty is reviewed every five years. That cycle starts again in 2017. The Netherlands will then chair the Preparatory Commission, the so-called PrepCom. Thirdly, we will continue to work in a step-by-step approach to banning nuclear fuel production in an effective nuclear fuel closure treaty. Fourthly, we are promoting the development of ways of verifying nuclear disarmament activities. In other words, no non-binding agreements on this point. I thought I was finally through all the questions about foreign policy. No, there's another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u177	And Mrs. Barth would like a moment too. Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u178	I also asked the Prime Minister to abstain from voting in the UN by the Netherlands last week. This is explained on the UN website as anticipating a vote against the results of a conference. How does the Prime Minister view that reasoning? Isn't it a little short on the bend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u179	Yeah, I think it's short. I'm gonna take a look at the official support. There's no shaking. We're gonna double-check. I haven't seen that statement on the website, so I'm going to double-check if I'm not getting into a huge pie by answering wrongly. It seems to me that this reasoning is a short one. I'll check the background, but no. I'll get back to you in second term. A question has been asked about ITAR and its agreement with the United States. Article 1 and Article 3 of the Dutch Constitution prohibit discrimination based on nationality. Defence therefore does not record in the personnel systems whether military and civilian workers have a dual nationality. In this context, the defence also does not provide personal data to the United States. On the implementation of ITAR, Defense has reached a good agreement with the US. So this has also been agreed with the US. The agreement on this specific point is that Dutch Defence personnel working with ITAR-related cases have an appropriate screening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u180	I have a few more questions about ITAR. The Prime Minister states that we should not discriminate on the basis of nationality, but you can make conditions. Discriminating is done on the basis of irrelevant facts, such as sex or skin color. But you can get rid of your nationality. So you can set conditions of nationality. In relation to the ITAR legislation, an amendment was tabled in 2011 on having a double nationality. A case in Canada showed that this could be a problem. There were indeed people of dual nationality who were not allowed to work with American weapons that are covered by ITAR. The Prime Minister can easily put it aside, but there are certainly problems with it. The Netherlands must have agreed on this. We also need to screen this subject. The Prime Minister says it's not included in the personnel systems. It's possible. I'd like to believe him. But it doesn't make sense to me that there's no record anywhere that there are people in Defense with a dual nationality. In doing so, the ITAR regulation also determines that one-off screening is not sufficient. So my question is again: has the audit been amended on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u181	Many military functions are also trust functions. A safety investigation will carefully consider whether there could be doubts about someone's functioning. If there are any doubts, as Mrs Faber knows, there will be no statement of no objection. A safety investigation may also extend to double nationality, but this data can only be used in the context of the investigation. In doing so, the Defence Department treats all employees equally, even when it comes to ITAR-related matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u182	One more follow-up question on this point, Mrs Faber. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u183	In fact, the Prime Minister repeats the answers given in response to written questions. He does not answer my question whether in 2011 our screening and our procedures were adapted to have a double nationality. An amendment has indeed been tabled, which has also been adopted. The Netherlands has indeed had bilateral consultations on this issue. So my question is again: have the procedures been adapted? If that is not the case, then the Netherlands is not in line as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u184	The solution to this is that we screen appropriately. Appropriate screening may extend to double nationality, but such data can only be used in the context of the investigation. On this basis, vgb is or is not issued. It's not more complicated than that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the issue of security and the rule of law. I will begin with the discussion we are having in the Netherlands on standards and values. I was called upon to say something about this myself as a list leader. Returning to the whole cabinet, I say that we cannot underestimate the very important issue of'standards and values'. Mr Kuiper and Mr Brinkman and others referred to the importance of establishing that the values in Dutch society arising from the Jewish-Christian tradition, the enlightenment and the Constitution are very fundamental. Whether it is about the equality of men and women, of white and black, of gay and straight et cetera, and about freedom of expression and freedom of the press, all these things must be defended. They must be transferred as standards and values. This is done in all possible ways, including in integration policy. When people come from outside the Netherlands, they have to understand in what society they arrive in. People in the Netherlands themselves must appeal to each other. I remember a performance by Elco Brinkman at the end of the eighties on the radio that always stayed with me. He said he saw kids kicking shit in the street somewhere, he called them and they stopped, not because he said that as a well-known Dutchman, but because someone said it. That you're talking to each other about behavior is part of it. You have to take responsibility in society. That's a very strong part of it for me. The police can't do that alone. We're all gonna have to do that. I am very pleased that the debate on standards and values is currently taking place. Against this background, a question has been asked about the role of the churches. Some time ago I got a beautiful booklet from the circle of the Christian Union with statements by Groen van Prinsterer. When Thorbecke was in the Tower, Green van Prinsterer was in the office where the King's Cabinet is now. They waved at each other from time to time. I once had to call the president of the King's Cabinet about something. It was night. The leaves had already fallen from the trees; it was in winter. We could see each other. He waved at me and I waved at him. I said, now we're waving a bit like ever, probably without a phone connection, Thorbecke and Green from Prinster have done that. One of the statements by Green van Prinsterer is beautiful in this context. Thorbecke's slogan was: there's no other way. Green from Prinster said when that was his slogan: it must not be different. In these two sentences is in a wonderful way the liberal and the more religiously politically engaged beliefs from the second half of the nineteenth century, which are still partly relevant. Mr Kuiper, in his fascinating contribution to the declaration of participation and the values of solidarity and freedom which form part of it, has asked to address the significance of the role of the churches. I agree with him that, precisely because of their significance for intangible values, the churches are authoritative. That authority is supported and is practically shaped by inspiration, comfort and support for people in difficult circumstances. He is right that it is more than a collaboration. There is, by the way. We have a meeting with the churches. The Minister for Security and Justice is primarily responsible for this. He has the honorary services from the cabinet under his care. I myself have recently received a delegation from the Council of Churches. As part of the Dutch Presidency, I was allowed to visit the Pope in Rome. We have contacts in all ways and at all levels. I very much agree with Mr Kuiper that it goes beyond that cooperation alone. The churches have their own meaning. I say this not only because of my own belief in life, but also because we regard the churches as an important and relevant player in this society, even outside Sunday morning. For example, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has organised a meeting in the Knight's Room in the context of integration policy in which our social values are central. Representatives of a very broad social spectrum were present, including churches and Islamic organisations. Such a meeting could take place again. That's how we try to bring people together. This, too, is a way of ensuring from the government that the theme "standards and values" has and keeps meaning. At a much more practical level was asked to maintain the language requirement in the Participation Act. Yeah, I have to. First of all, it is up to the College of Mayors and aldermen to do so. The city council has a controlling role to play in this. Where appropriate, they shall be addressed administratively. It is terrible what is happening in the Netherlands at the moment with regard to the security needed for all kinds of objects such as schools and other buildings. It is extremely unpleasant that we live in a time when they need it. But if that's what it takes, it has to be done. That is why the Ministry of Security and Justice is closely involved in what happens, for example, about the security of Jewish institutions in the Netherlands. The Jewish community, local authority and the Empire have a responsibility for the security of these institutions. The installation of a fence, as was the case on 7 October, contributes to that safety. But it is indeed terrible that it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u185	The Prime Minister has just mentioned the language requirement. I have also spoken about this in my speech. The Prime Minister says that if municipalities do not comply with the rules that apply to them, they must be called upon to do so. Is the cabinet going to appeal to Amsterdam, for example? There is an alderman of the SP who does not follow the rules of the language requirement and who also says that he seeks the limits of the law in this area. In my view, he's not only looking for these limits of the law, he's crossing them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u186	I cannot go into a specific case in the relationship between the government and the fellow governments. So the case mentioned by Mrs Faber, let me leave it to you for a moment. I can't go into that. In general, I can say that we are doing as Mrs Faber asks. We address administratively. If necessary, of course, we can also give you a clue. Even more so is the so-called 'placement'. These are, of course, very heavy instruments. We must realise that the law has been in force since 1 January for the new influx and since 1 July for the existing stock. So it's still very fresh. Especially where this is necessary, we will also use the instruments. But we'll talk to each other first. That's how it's supposed to be in the Netherlands. I cannot therefore go into the specific case mentioned by Mrs Faber. I can't do that in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u187	A different question than that, which is on this subject. Are there any cases where a benefit has been reduced or withdrawn because of non-compliance with the language requirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u188	The law has only actually been in force since 1 July. So we're in the middle of the introduction. So let us also give this a chance and perhaps assume for a moment that the co-governments simply implement the law. That's always a good starting point. If this does not happen, Mrs Faber can be sure that we will use the instruments. I myself was able to defend the Work and Assistance Act 12 years ago during my first fine debate in the Upper House. It was then introduced on 1 January 2004. There was also a great deal of doubt about this. I think the municipalities have taken it fantasticly. So I'm assuming that's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u189	I have a brief question about the Jewish institutions that need to be protected. It's nice to hear the Prime Minister say that the government will do this in full and full. I have also raised the question of what the government can do against anti-Semitism. I understand that's very difficult to describe, but couldn't the Prime Minister make an attempt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u190	We've talked about that before. All forms of violence and discrimination are terrible and, of course, anti-Semitism is. Everything that I and the Cabinet can do about it will be done, for example by our policies, by acting and by enforcing the law. The whole range of instruments is available for this purpose and is also used for this purpose. I want no one in the Netherlands who is legally resident here and who simply wants to make a positive contribution here to his faith, colour or background to be addressed. We don't care about any of that, because we're looking at where you're going and not where you're coming from. Faith should also play no role. Your skin color shouldn't matter. Whether you're a man or a woman shouldn't matter. Let me also say it very simply: it is also incredibly stupid to do that. It ruins the atmosphere in a society. I was also very pleased with what the President said to the chairman of the PVV group on that point. These are very essential things. If we don't stand together for that, then... then the gate of the dam. So I very much agree with Mr Schalk. I come to the reform of the police department. The fact is, of course, that these are more extensive and more complex in the execution than could be imagined in all respects. That is why the Minister of V and J has also, through the re-examination, taken more time for the completion and introduced more realism into the objectives. The Court is regularly informed of this by means of a progress letter. There has been talk of the transport of confused persons. It's true that the police want to stop taking shelter in cells on January 1st. The police want to stop transport in the course of 2017. This means that, in close coordination with local authority, other stakeholders, the police and also the regional mayors, the National Security and Police Consultations are now discussing the implementation of this intention. I say this to Mr Brinkman, who asked the question. We shall inform the Chamber of what solution has been reached. In my view, we agree that people with confused behaviour should never fall between them, not even in the event of such a transition, in the event of such a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u191	The Prime Minister went over the problems with the police very quickly. He recalled that there was extensive discussion in this Chamber about this Police Act, its introduction and the concerns felt in the Chamber. Can the Prime Minister tell us a little bit more about what is now being observed by Minister Van der Steur, namely that there is a great deal of error in the building of the police? And above all: how does the cabinet intend to address the problems identified? A number of measures have been taken, but perhaps the Prime Minister could explain them here as well. I saw Minister Van der Steur explain them to the media. I think that's very important. But I'd also like to hear what the government has decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u192	I think that goes very much into the details for this debate. In my view, we have to establish that there is a very extensive reorganisation. I do not know in my practice any major reorganisations that do not require adjustments in implementation, either in business or in politics. In the case of small reorganisations this may happen, but in the case of major reorganisations there are always adjustments in the implementation. You rarely planned such a reorganisation so perfectly that it fits to the last detail. So I think it is powerful to talk to each other about how to do it better. That's what happened here. The scale, but also the complexity of that reorganisation were even greater than we already knew. That's what made the recalibrate necessary. The objectives of the Minister for Security and Justice also include realism in the light of the observation that there was a larger and more complex project than was originally envisaged. It had already been anticipated that it would be a very complex and extensive reorganisation, but it turned out to be even more complex. It is good to inform the Chamber regularly. However, it is a little far-reaching to describe what we are doing at the level of the General Reviews as a Minister of Security and Justice. I believe that this is something for the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u193	I wouldn't dare ask the Prime Minister. However, I hear him say that we must now look at the final details.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u194	I'm not saying that. All I'm saying is that everything is going on right now and the Minister for Security and Justice informs the Chamber. However, I would also say that I think it is a little far-reaching to enter into the portfolio of the Minister for Security and Justice at the level of action in the General Reviews on my part. But it's running. This is being worked on and the Chamber is being informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u195	However, I have had the impression that there are major problems, that the Minister of Justice has intervened and appointed a committee, and that things are going to happen. Since I don't get any announcements from the cabinet, I have to do it with media communications. The Prime Minister is now talking about the final details of a major reorganisation that still needs to be completed. That's different from what I hear in the media. If there is nothing more to report, then the Prime Minister must leave it at that, but the media's great interest in this matter shows, in my opinion, something other than that we are only dealing with 'the latest details'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u196	I didn't mention "the final details." Then there's really been a misunderstanding with Mr. Kox. I didn't want to say that at all. Mrs Jorritsma has drawn attention to the state committee in her contribution. It is our plan to take that committee's decision before the beginning of March 2017. This has also been decided in consultation with the Presidents of the two Chambers. The Minister for Foreign Affairs bases the decision on the letter from the two Chambers. Reference was made to the statements made by the Minister in Buitenhof, but of course they related to the different variants of the note he sent to the Chambers in 2014. However, the decision on the institution is based on the letter from the two Chambers. After consultation with the Chambers and after decision by the Cabinet, that decision of the Committee comes on the basis of the letter from the two Chambers. I say again that this must be done at the beginning of March 2017. The second point concerns the proposals for own-initiative legislation. The importance of adequate financial coverage has been mentioned. Perhaps I can reply briefly to Mrs Jorritsma that we will send a letter to the Chamber on this issue, because this is, of course, always sensitive. In case of motions, you can arrange all of this in advance. In the case of proposals for own-initiative legislation, this may go wrong sometime. Of course, adequate financial coverage is of great importance here too. I am happy to say that I will send a letter to the Chamber on this matter. I believe that I have responded to the two points made by Mrs Jorritsma in this area. We are not discussing the process for the next formation, and we will have to do so in the House of Representatives. I have personally expressed my views on this before, but these are not necessarily the views of the entire coalition. I must be cautious about this in this context. But you can't hear me say that I didn't think the old system was so bad at all, because that would be inappropriate, as part of my role here. More and more municipalities no longer place election signs in the context of austerity. This pressing issue was raised by 50PLUS. Election boards are not required by law. Municipalities get money from the Municipal Fund. The placing of election signs or not is an autonomous competence of the municipalities. The Transition Committee on Social Domain points out to the Empire its role in the city-crossing tendencies. Mrs Strik asked how the Empire promotes the goals of decentralisation in their realization, pointing out some of the issues that have indeed been mentioned by this committee. We have recently decided together with the municipalities as a follow-up to the Transition Committee on Social Domain to create an administrative programme for the coming years. So that was together with the municipalities. In this way, the Empire and municipalities together give an impetus to the transformation of the social domain. The implementation of that programme has begun, which also includes peripheral issues such as supervision and privacy. The Chamber has been informed of this, as part of the response to the fifth and final report of the Social Domain. Mrs Strik also asked how we combat discrimination among higher-educated people, for example in the case of applications. At this point we recognise the analysis of the SCP, and we share the concerns. The data for this analysis of the SCP were collected to an important extent on behalf of the Minister of SZW. They are a solid foundation for the policies implemented under the integration agenda and have also led to a number of new policy initiatives aimed at preventing exclusion and promoting the linking of groups, such as the intensification of anti-discrimination policies over the past period, the approach to youth unemployment and the link-up in society launched in Utrecht on 21 November; the progress letter integration agenda will continue to address this theme. An important question has been asked about the plans of the cabinet with completed life and voluntary end of life. That is a response to the Schnabel Committee's report. Why is the cabinet doing something about it now, still walking towards the end of the cabinet period? This discussion has been going on since 1991. Four years ago, the citizens' initiative was dealt with by free will in the House of Representatives. After years of social debate, the cabinet, at the request of the Lower House, asked the Schnabel Committee to give its opinion. That advice came out in February of this year. We have discussed this very carefully. We usually get out in the cabinet in one round, but we have really talked about this very intensively in a number of rounds. The VWS Minister has taken the lead in this regard. That was a respectful, in-depth discussion that eventually led to a weighted position, where, as far as we are concerned, I think that everyone here is going to be careful about speed. This is not a subject that we can yet translate into legislation that has already gone through both chambers, this will really be for the longer term. For us, the presentation of this position is a logical step in a long-standing discussion. It's not finished with this. When it comes to new medical-ethical legislation, you can see that the end result is always the result of a very long and careful social discussion. A number of values play an important role in this, such as the protection of life, the autonomy of man and the self-determination associated with it. In any case, we note that no value can be absolute in this respect. Those values will always play in conjunction. They play a role in every law. We are very pleased that the current euthanasia law is working well, but at the same time we also see that people are getting older, including through medical technology and that not everyone is happy with it. There are those who say: I feel it as such that my life is complete, without unbearable or hopeless suffering with a medical basis. First of all, everything must be aimed at preventing people from getting into such a situation. I think that is an important task for all of us, not for the cabinet, but for society as a whole. But for those who ultimately come to the conclusion that their lives must now be regarded as hopeless and unbearable, we want to make it possible, under strict conditions and with careful procedure, to end their lives in a dignified manner. That is why we are working on a legislative proposal in this respect to meet these people's wishes. I realize that this is an extremely sensitive issue, which evokes very intense emotions and reactions, in all circles, and also within parties. Even within the cabinet, the discussion was not settled at once; we discussed this in several rounds, precisely to weigh it very carefully. We'll continue with that. Last week there was a worthy debate in the House of Representatives and there will be many more debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u197	I understand very well that this discussion needs time and that it needs to be conducted carefully. However, the timing of the moment when this was brought out still raises questions. You are quite right to state that you and the PvdA have worked this out. You can't carry it out anymore, because it takes more time. Why is that being brought out now? It will undoubtedly be put back on the agenda of a new formation, with political parties re-establishing their position. What exactly is the function of bringing it out now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u198	I would like to draw attention to the parliamentary history of abortion legislation, the euthanasia legislation as we now know it and the legislation on gay marriage. These have all been discussions that could not be completed in a few months, in a single legislative proposal or by one cabinet. These discussions have always taken place step by step. Social and political support has been sought. Sometimes legislative proposals fell at the last minute, after which they returned. Look at the death of the bill on abortion in this Chamber, at the time when VVD senator Haya van Someren took a very principled position on it. You will always see this in these very fundamental issues, which are also divided within the political parties. For my political party, I thought the same was true for many other parties in this Chamber. In the cabinet too, the discussion did not go along party lines, but much more along individual lines, with one more and the other having less hesitation to take this step, and we brought each other step by step to a weighted decision, which led to the letter from Minister Schippers. I imagine that the discussion we had is merely indicative of the debate that will continue in society. Paul Schnabel's impressive report was the basis for this decision. We do not agree in all respects, but it was an important report to reach our discussion, consideration and decision-making. It was there in February. We've been working on that, and we're not gonna finish this before the election. This will certainly play a role in the next cabinet and perhaps in the cabinet after that. We'll see. This won't be completed in a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u199	This is, of course, a very sensitive subject. For this reason, too, the question is what prompted the cabinet to go beyond the opinion of the Schnabel Committee, which in itself already had a kind of consensus. What are the important reasons for saying that we still need a separate legal framework for those who feel that their lives have been completed? I am also asking for this because, for the first time, this is a step outside the framework that can be understood by the medical profession. The criterion of "extremely unbearable suffering" can be understood by the medical profession, but now the cabinet really takes a different path with its own choice. What prompted the cabinet to go beyond that advice and come up with its own legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u200	In our discussion in the Cabinet it was a question of weighing the arguments between the existing euthanasia legislation and the practice behind it on the issue of hopeless and unbearable suffering and the observation that medical technology has also greatly increased our life expectancy. Fortunately, many people are getting old and living, but with this development of medical technology and the growing age of our society, the number of people who say at some point: my friends have died, I am lonely or I am in a phase of life in which life has been completed and completed for me; because I am physically still too strong, life does not stop, but actually it is completed for me. So there are two things going on. The social debate on this is, of course, shifting. The current euthanasia legislation was not there 40 years ago; I think it is now 20 years. The social debate on the completion of life itself, also in the light of medical technology, has, of course, grown stronger in recent years. In the end, in our discussion, using Schnabel's report, we concluded that the weight of the arguments lies more on the side of those who say that, in the event of a completed life, there should also be an opportunity, under strict conditions and all that goes with it, to give a dignified ending in a respectful and careful manner. For us that side eventually weighed more heavily in the cabinet discussion than the other side, which said for all the reasons that come with it, that you should not do so. This has ultimately been our consideration, where indeed the strict conditions, the careful procedure and so on are, of course, crucial. They will also have to be further developed in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u201	It's nice that we're getting older. That is a quality, but of course that can never be an argument to go this way. At the same time, you say that it is about how people live, who are around them, and what our care and care look like to each other, even among people who live for a very long time. With all due respect, this is a poor argument. I would like to mention something else. At the end of the letter it is indicated that there will be a discussion with all those who are important in this. This also applies, of course, to the medical professions, which are now facing a huge burden. They may also need to be able to play a role in ending lives, which they do not want at all. If the government's conversation with society leads to such reactions that the government does indeed see that this is a very difficult road, could that lead to the bill not being tabled? That is the implication of the end of that letter: first, that conversation will be held with society. I'm actually a little surprised you're saying the government's already writing the bill. I thought the conversation with society would be started first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u202	Of course. The way it's written in the letter, it's true, of course. I was running out of time. Of course, you should always be open to arguments that could tempt you into very new insights. We do not have that expectation; I must also be clear about it. However, we do think it is necessary to talk to all those involved in order to arrive at a good legislative proposal in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u203	Finally, Mr Kuiper, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u204	We are already seeing the violent reactions in society. The Prime Minister says this is true in his own party. I do believe that this is the way society feels. Is it then conceivable that, in the light of this social debate, the legislative proposal will not ultimately be submitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u205	The discussion in my party is not about Mrs Schippers' letter. I outlined the discussion in my party. That discussion has been going on for ten or fifteen years and is very fundamental. I have seen that people, too, have moved forward step by step in their positioning. In my view, this is the reflection of a debate that takes place in many political parties and all kinds of civil society organisations throughout society. It is therefore not the case that this letter leads to violent reactions. The subject, at least in my party, has been leading to respectful but also very serious and important debates for ten or fifteen years. If you are talking to all kinds of people about a good design of the intention in a legislative proposal, you must of course also be willing to acknowledge that you are encountering something that is insurmountable at some point, but I must also say that we do not expect that. We are not consciously engaged in popperian falsifying. What we want to do is to ensure that we come to a good draft law step by step. Of course, that includes talking to all those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u206	I will mention my three points in one go. The Prime Minister indicated that he hoped that, as a society, we would achieve that demand for euthanasia would evaporate or that people would not find it necessary to ask euthanasia. I thought that was a good point, because that is perhaps also a bit the answer to my question in the first term whether the question for a voluntary end of life is light or dark. The Prime Minister indicated that the euthanasia law was working pretty well. The ordinary citizens can't usually see much of that unless, for example, a end-of-life clinic sends a documentary into the world. I found them shocking. A woman was euthanized. I'm not going into the details right now, but I was thinking at the time: society thinks we shouldn't want this. There has also been a very strong reaction to this. I'd like the Prime Minister to respond to that, too. My third and final point concerns the following. If there were to be a law as announced in the letter, does the Prime Minister not foresee that the current euthanasia law will become more or less "cold"? After all, it is no longer necessary to achieve euthanasia along the route of unbearable and hopeless suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u207	As far as that last point is concerned, we are not yet there. Of course, we need to look very closely at how this bill relates to existing legislation. I can't answer that right now. As far as Mr Schalk's second question is concerned, I have a very different experience of my own. This is a very sensitive subject, in which philosophical issues also play a role. How do you look at the question of whether this, for example from a particular background, can be made possible at all? The existing euthanasia practice will also, of course, lead to very different conclusions. May I mention something from my own background? I have seen a number of times over the last few years that friends of mine were very seriously ill, hopeless and also unbearable members and knew that this would deteriorate very quickly. With their loved ones around them, certainly knowing that their situation would lead to death but also to very difficult last few months and that they wanted to save themselves and their surroundings those last few months, they could choose to end life through the existing euthanasia practice. I have experienced it as very special that we live in a country where we can and where people can make that decision in a very careful way. That's a very good test. I was really impressed by that. I understand that Mr Schalk has a different experience through the aforementioned broadcast. I didn't see it, but from the experience in my own environment I found it very special. The loss remains terrible, and I understand that the fact that someone can make that decision and say that he wants to avoid those last few months hurts a lot for people who think that should not be and that it is not up to people themselves to make that decision. We are very different in that; I understand that too, but I am glad that this in the Netherlands... "Happy" is a wrong word. I am proud that this is happening in the Netherlands in a very respectful way. As far as Mr Schalk's first point is concerned, of course, as a society, you would like everyone to feel at home and secure, have energy and look back at the future, but we all know cases where people at a very old age, who are still reasonably healthy, whose heart is functioning well and who are still well with them, but whose partner, almost all friends and sometimes many children, have died, say: it is ready; it is full-bodied. We also have people in the Netherlands who are 110 or 111 years of age, who are interviewed on TV and who you think: what would be great if that could happen to us. It's both common. You can't plan that and you can't get ahead of it. It happens. How much you want to bring warmth to everyone as a society and offer people a social context in which they see it again, even then there will always be people who say: yes, but it is ready for me. I think we also know a lot of those people in our own environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u208	Very briefly, Mr Schalk, because you said that you had one question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u209	Whether you want to make that possible, there are, of course, very different views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u210	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u211	Then I will not go into too much detail now, Mr President. I did say I'd do it all at once. Let me put it this way: I will forward the link of the documentary I was referring to to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u212	I'd love to. I'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u213	I hope the Prime Minister will look into that and who knows we will have a follow-up discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u214	Yes. I am going to look at it and I will come back to Mr Schalk. I come to the question about abortion in the Netherlands. As is well known, a pregnancy break-up should only be carried out if there is an emergency. That's for the woman to decide. This is deliberately not further coloured in Dutch legislation by the legislator. We support policies aimed at preventing unwanted pregnancies. The Dutch abortion rate is one of the lowest in the world. We would like to reduce that further. The general practitioner can also play a major role, because he knows his patients and also the backgrounds. He can also enter into the conversation. That is the situation now. In the Netherlands, all kinds of organisations are closely involved in trying to make young people sexually resilient. These organisations are also subsidised to inform young people in good time about safe and desirable sex and how to prevent unwanted pregnancies. The information is done with special teaching packages for schools, but also via speaking hours and the Internet. All this contributes to the fact that the number of abortions in the Netherlands is among the lowest in the world. However, I would point out that an alternative to legal abortion is illegal abortion. We will also agree that this is very undesirable and can also be dangerous. That is why we are committed to continuing the current policy of informing the unwanted pregnant woman about the possibilities available. I come to a very different issue: Q fever. We are well aware of the major consequences of Q fever, chronic Q fever and QVS for individual patients. We sympathize with all the people who have had to deal with this disease in any way. The Van Dijk Committee has done thorough research. The report was published in 2010. We have taken on board the Committee's opinions, made improvements and also decided, in consultation with the House of Representatives, to set up and finance the foundation Q-support. That independent foundation has received 10 million, to use to support Q-fever patients including advice, guidance and research. This has been done because of the exceptional and intrusive impact of the epidemic on those involved and is thus a gesture towards the victims of Q-fever. The work of the Q-support foundation is also seen by patients as very valuable. The court is expected to rule on 14 December in the case of liability, which a number of patients have brought against the government. I cannot go into that further, because it is now under the courts, as it is called. Questions have been asked about the discussion about one's own risk. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u215	Mr. Koffeman, is your question about the Q fever?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u216	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The patients suffering from Q fever actually do not feel very well understood and supported by the government. It is also remarkable that it has become a lingering issue, not only for patients suffering from chronic Q fever, for the more than 70 people who have died of Q fever and their relatives, but also for the fact that an industry causes 75 deaths and that the cabinet does not make a generous gesture to compensate them. That's kind of special, isn't it? The Prime Minister has relied years after that on the fact that it is now under the courts. It's a shame it's still under the judge now. My question to the Prime Minister is whether it is not time for a generous gesture towards the patients who have fallen victim to Dutch government policy. If you traveled from the United States or Brazil to the Netherlands, your government gave you an instruction: do not cycle or walk through the Brabant countryside, because there is Q fever, and the bacterium Coxiella burnetii is listed as a halogenated weapon. So the Brazilian government and the American government warned not to go cycling or hiking there. The Dutch government has failed to warn hikers in Brabant and Gelderland. People at risk, such as pregnant women and the elderly, have not been warned. They lived next to goats' stables and were left to their fate. If more than 70 people die, more than there have been victims of terrorism here in the Netherlands since the Second World War, then surely it cannot be true that these people have to defend themselves against the government for what has been done to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u217	Of course, Mr Koffeman and I do not have to convince each other of the horrors. I have just said in my initial response to the questions asked that we are very sympathetic to all patients and that it is terrible that there are deaths to be regretted. I sincerely believe, and Mr Koffeman does not agree with that, that with the creation of this foundation and its wide-ranging funding, we should also hear that patients who consider themselves to be valuable do what may be expected of us, with largesse, without being economical about it. We really do that as a government in a decent way. At the same time, there are also a number of dissatisfied patients who have turned to court. And of course that is always allowed; that is what the judge is for in the Netherlands. That trial is expected to lead to a ruling on 14 December. I cannot go into that now. Then the question remains: do you think we're doing enough? Yeah, I think that's sincere. We also had this discussion in the cabinet, on the proposal of the Minister of the United States of America. I think we're doing this decently. We can't call the dead back. What happened is horrible. This also requires us, as a government, to respond in a decent manner with all of us. I think that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u218	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u219	I understand that the Prime Minister says that we are doing what we are expected to do, and I cannot go into the matter here because it is under the courts. I do not understand why I want to explain to you that the Dutch government did not do what was expected of her at the time of the infection. Can the Prime Minister promise that foreign governments will never again warn their travellers against contagion fires in the Netherlands and that the Dutch government will remain silent and put at risk groups? It was really purely a situation of danger. Can the Prime Minister at least say that lessons have been learned from this situation and that the Dutch government, like foreign governments, will warn people: you live near an infection scar and you have to watch your back very carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u220	Mr Koffeman's question contains so many assumptions that I will really leave this on his behalf. I come to the question of one's own risk. The cabinet has no intention of eliminating its own risk, as we know. That also costs an awful lot of money, billions. There simply aren't any. The cabinet also considers its own risk justifiable, because it ensures that those who use care pay for a piece of it and because its own risk also leads to the reduction of unnecessary use of care. The lowest incomes are largely compensated by the care allowance for the premium and the own risk. The increase in own risk in 2013 has been compensated one-on-one by a higher health care allowance. Municipalities also have the budget and the space to compensate for customisation. Almost all municipalities have collective insurance for their citizens at low income levels, in which they contribute to costs and sometimes also re-insure their own risk. There is therefore no intention from the cabinet to eliminate its own risk. I come to the questions about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u221	Prime Minister, may I ask how long you think...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u222	I'm almost out! I have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u223	I understand you're being interrupted a lot, but I was just looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u224	I may be a little too complete, but I'm almost through. Mrs Barth asked a question about citizenship and social studies. We have to note that attention to citizenship in education since 2006 is a legal requirement for schools. Schools should promote active citizenship and social integration of pupils. That's been in place for ten years. Schools report that this is important, but at the same time they are still working on citizenship with too little planning and focus. International research also shows that Dutch students do not score well on knowledge of the fundamental values of our democratic rule of law compared to their peers in other European countries. That is why citizenship needs to be given a greater place in the core curriculum of primary and secondary education. This was also underlined by the committee which gave its opinion on the revision of the curriculum. On this basis, the State Secretary of OCW will inform the First Chamber and the Second Chamber at the end of this year about the strengthening of citizenship education. And teaching this self two hours a week voluntarily, I can only underline its importance. We're having a 100-year celebration. The plan is that on December 12, 2017 a three-year term will begin to commemorate 100 years of universal suffrage. Someone suggested hanging Thorbecke in this room and there Cort van der Linden. I support this motion, although I do not have the right to vote here, because we owe it to Thorbecke to the introduction of parliamentary democracy and to Cort van der Linden to introduce universal suffrage for men and women, passive and active. That was in 1917 and 1919, hence the three years. On December 12, 2017, the commemoration of the two major constitutional reforms in the Netherlands will begin since the French Revolution. We are also remembering 100 years of Article 23, an article that is very close to my heart in any case. I think it is very nice that you can start a school together in the Netherlands and that there is equal funding. Article 23 provides for this. Provided that the children can and know what to do and what to know at the end of the training course, the organisation of the school itself may be determined. This has led to beautiful schools on a Christian basis, on a very neutral basis, afijn, the whole special education as we know it. That is a great achievement. That's what we're gonna celebrate. The Ministry of Education organizes a scientific symposium in spring 2017. The Education Museum in Dordrecht will also provide information to schools on the historical backgrounds of equality, including financial, special and public education. That's for students from 10 to 14 years old. Whether there will also be a unified meeting, of course I am not going to discuss it, but I have heard that remark. I'm gonna go into a few final questions. I think we have put animal welfare high on the agenda in the last cabinet period. For example, animal welfare is enshrined in the intensive livestock policy. For example, this translates into the Chicken of Tomorrow, a more sustainable... sorry that I laugh; the late hour is now beginning to avenge itself... a more durablely produced chicken, and into products with the Better Life label. This is an animal welfare mark for the protection of animals. We now see that in the shelves of Albert Heijn. There's only pork left with at least one star of Better Life. The sector has taken this up together with the retail sector and there is a bill in preparation at V and J for an independent restraining ban on animals. Following a conviction for animal abuse or neglect, the judge may impose an independent ban on the keeping of animals. Other progress has also been made. I refer to the general housing and care standards for all kept animals, the reduction of physical interventions in animals, in poultry, for example, but also in pigs, and extra anaesthetic for napain in calves and goats when dehorning. At European level, together with Denmark, Germany and Sweden, Vught's declaration was drawn up to bring animal welfare in Europe to a higher level. I therefore believe that a great deal has happened on this point. Perhaps I should also include Mr Koffeman's question on the opinions issued on production systems...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u225	Prime Minister, Mr. Koffeman wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u226	It was indeed characteristic of how seriously the cabinet is putting its hands on measures to promote animal welfare. The Prime Minister could hardly keep it dry. He knows that at the late hour. I would like this subject to be approached a little more seriously, especially since the Prime Minister, when he was chairman of the VVD, said: animal welfare is very much to my heart. You can always knock on my door and I despise the bio-industry. From what he has said today, I think it is clear that there has been a shift. It's become more of a form of entertainment right now. When will the cabinet seriously start working on what all the government's advisory bodies say, namely that we need to keep a much smaller number of animals in a structural and substantial way? 500 million animals suffer, and die after a short and miserable life. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has all mentioned the wipes for bleeding that the cabinet has already arranged, but now for a moment this substantial reduction in the amount of animals that suffer and die here: 500 million a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u227	The grinning was purely due to the marketing term "the chicken of tomorrow." I thought that was such an absurd title that I had to laugh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u228	It's also completely unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u229	May I give you an answer, or are you not interested? Okay. So again, that term "tomorrow's chicken" made me laugh. I'm sorry about that. I'll never do it again. That doesn't change the fact that everything that gets out of there is very much to my heart. Mr Koffeman knows that too. I'm not going to defend myself for that at all. Animal welfare is of great concern to me personally, but also to the entire cabinet. But let us try to find some more serious titles for the projects. Mr Koffeman asked about the follow-up to the numerous opinions on livestock production systems. They wouldn't last. On this point, may I point out that on 25 October the Economic and Social Council, at the request of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, headed by Mr Nijpels, presented an opinion on speeding up the sustainability of livestock farming? This should lead to better social embedding of intensive livestock farming. We will respond to that in a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u230	If, since the Wijffels Committee in 2001, it has been said: we have received an opinion, we are going to drastically restrict livestock farming and the numbers of animals are going down dramatically. That is what we have been doing for 15 years. My question to the Prime Minister now is: when are we seriously going to reduce the numbers of animals? Last year we had a discussion in this house about the dairy herd. It would explode at the time the milk quota would go off. The cabinet was very nonchalant about that, in the vein of: that is not going to happen. But right now there are 200,000 to 400,000 cows that have to be slaughtered, just because too many have been bred. Those are numbers of animals, aren't they? Throughout history, these numbers of cow sacrifices were very rare. I would therefore like to know from the cabinet when it is going to do something, other than in the vein of: we have another opinion and are going to respond in a few weeks' time. For 15 years these animal numbers have not been structurally reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u231	I thought Mr Koffeman would be pleased with the previous answer. There is now a report from the Economic and Social Council. A response from the Secretary of State will be received within a month. So what more do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u232	Mr. Koffeman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u233	I'd like to repeat it one more time. There have already been a lot of advice and cabinet responses, but these have not de facto led to a reduction in livestock numbers. So I would like to know from the cabinet whether the fact that it has not happened for 15 years is now going to lead to other results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u234	We come within a month with a response to the Nijpels report. Let us take it one step at a time. I think I answered all the questions, but I'll see if anyone gets mad when I say so. No! Then I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u235	Doesn't look like it, Prime Minister. Thank you. I look at the clock and suspend the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u236	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the very committed and constructive contribution and responses from the cabinet as far as we are concerned. In any case, this is the reason for the desire not to continue to work with electoral rhetoric these months, but to continue to act in the country's interest. We appreciate that. The way in which the Prime Minister spoke about Europe also appeals to us. We hope that everything will come together in a better way. In the context of the General Financial Reviews, we will still have the opportunity to address a number of points which I have been able to raise on behalf of my group. From the point of view of the Upper House, which always has to be careful, I would like to point out that in the field of monuments I am now picking up one thing out of the word 'discontinuity'. The cabinet now proposes to come up with a change of the system, which the Minister of OCW then intends to introduce in 2019. This obviously means that the stakeholders will face a problem in 2017 and 2018. We really need to work on this in the General Financial Reviews. I'll give you that warning. Something similar applies to the issue of the DBA Act. That is a matter which, after the proposal had passed the House of Representatives, was expressly referred back here for careful reasons. The Secretary of State also worked on this at the time, but it is not yet in order. The Prime Minister's remark "we will take care of that further in the House of Representatives" is too short for us. This has to come back to us as far as we are concerned. The same applies to the question of pensions. In this area too, our Chamber has an important track record from a legislative point of view. We strongly urge the Prime Minister to encourage the Netherlands Bank to produce its regular report next week or in two weeks' time. I refer to the little debate we have had on this subject. We must have the opportunity to discuss this report and the cabinet conclusions here in the General Financial Review, taking into account what has now been exchanged on this issue. The subject is too important for it, even for all those millions of stakeholders who see the date of 1 January approaching. We do not need a final judgment on all issues, but we do want to know where we stand. Of course, there are all kinds of differences between pension funds and insurers, but it is taking too far to discuss this in detail now. On this point too, therefore, I would urge you to give a more detailed answer to the General Financial Reviews. We are happy with the approach taken by the Prime Minister when it comes to Europe. The art is, of course, to do what the Prime Minister so explicitly says: it is now about enforcing the rules and it is about not letting the broad monetary policy replace reforms. This must also be achieved. We understand very well that this can not only be arranged by the Dutch cabinet, but of course it is also about our position in that whole. That is the background to our comment on the very broad policy of the ECB. We, too, attach great importance to independence, but people are still looking at it in the vein of: who gets away easily and who is on the blisters? I would like to draw your attention to that. The Minister of Housing came a little later and the Minister of EZ was apologized, so perhaps the Prime Minister did not respond to the comments I made on these policy areas. That does not mean that we are silently in agreement with the policy that is being pursued there. We have raised specific questions and made comments on these areas. It is up to him to defy the President of this sitting with a long answer or to take it off in writing. We remain alert to their activities. A final remark concerns the rule of law and the policy of the Minister for Security and Justice. We congratulated the Cabinet on the additional contributions and activities, but I have mentioned a few examples of policies that are not yet complete. In this short second term, I should like to mention the issue of those convicted in hundreds of thousands if not thousands of people in this society. This, of course, affects the credibility of this policy. I mention this example because the Minister attaches great importance to giving up publicly on the large number of results achieved in the fight against crime. So you can look at that a little more nuanced, I guess. We like not only to talk in images, but also to look at the facts. I quote this example to indicate that it is not yet ready and we expect an opportunity to get an answer to this. Not so much because we want to hear it, but because many people in this country simply do not understand that so much extra money is rightly going to the security chain, but that thousands of convicted people are then free to go around here. I started with a compliment to the Prime Minister and end with that too. The Prime Minister last mentioned the portrait gallery that's hanging here. I'll give him all kinds of records, but he'll have to keep working for that for a while. As far as we are concerned, this can be done for the rest of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u237	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his very comprehensive and very substantive responses to everything that has been said by this Chamber. I would like to thank him both for his content and for the way he has done it. I am always listening with admiration. I don't think I was the only one in there. I would like to make a few comments on subjects on which I did not say anything at first, but for which I would like to draw some attention thanks to the discussion in this House. Mr De Graaf spoke about the DBA Act and the progress reports on it. Know that we too are concerned about how that goes. There is also concern in the cabinet about this. We want to focus in particular on the role that clients play. We note that there is a real problem there. I hope that in the coming months the cabinet will still be able to come up with solutions in such a way that clients dare to be just clients again, and do not think that this is not possible or that there are all kinds of payroll constructions in between. That would be at the expense of thezzp'ers and that would be a shame. On the subject of European cooperation, I would like to say the following. I am incredibly in agreement with the cabinet that reforms should be the basis of good European policy and enforcement. Our group is concerned with the cabinet because it is still lacking. Politicisation of things that may not be so political, namely the implementation of existing rules, is one of the causes of this. Those words are taken from our hearts. We agree with the way in which the cabinet deals with the outcome of the referendum. Of course, we're curious what that's gonna turn into. We are also pleased that we are also trying to reach agreements with southern states on the refugee problem. To be honest, I get very sad every night when I see that somewhere on the Mediterranean Sea a boat has been cut off with people who have left Libya and do not make it. That's impossible, isn't it? We must do something about this, and we must do so with those countries, no matter how horrible they are. Anything's better than letting go of those boats. What has been said about Europe is in line with what was first introduced on behalf of my group. We must also promote European cooperation in the field of defence. As far as we are concerned, NATO is the cornerstone. We need to build on that to do better. I understand that the assent decision of the State Committee is likely to come in March. I hope it comes before the elections, that would be so nice. It takes a while, but in March it is election time and if it doesn't work, it will only be after. I'd be sorry to hear that. Anyway, we're working on it, and as far as we're concerned, it's okay to do it as soon as possible. However, I would appreciate it if the Cabinet could ensure that the letter on the cover for own-initiative proposals for the Financial Reviews would be here. Then we can take advantage of this in the General Financial Reviews. I have no idea at all that there is a cabinet here that has been ruled out and that has not done anything in recent months. In fact, you are working on matters that we will be working on for a very long time. That is a good thing, because that is also the job of a cabinet. I was very pleased that the cabinet had the courage to present a position to the House of Representatives on completed life. I have followed the debate closely in the House of Representatives and I am also very pleased about that. It is a very worthy and good debate. I hope that we can come to a more or less consensus-based view on this. We should, of course, respect people who do not have the same opinion on this subject, but that should not mean that you should prevent others from taking a different view. I happen to have experienced it recently in my immediate vicinity, so I would be very comfortable if we could finish this in a good way. I hope the cabinet will continue with that work. It will undoubtedly not be able to complete it, but I hope that will be done in the same way as this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u238	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. Sometimes that was a bit light, sometimes very to the point and sometimes a bit wild from the hip, such as the future of the European Union and its organs. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment to analyse and inform us about the implementation of the DBA Act at various levels. I hope he will not return to that promise in the second term. Then there is the association agreement with Ukraine, the referendum and the further progress. We will wait and see what the Prime Minister comes back from Brussels; we are very curious about the outcome of these talks. For us, it is important that we finally have to decide whether to propose a confirmation bill or a withdrawal bill. The explanatory statement accompanying it will then be decisive for our opinion. I was very pleased that Mr Kox was considerably more nuanced than others. I am referring to people behind NopePeil who call other parties democracy traitors because they are not directly in favour of a repeal law. This also applies to his group chairman in the Lower House, the party leader who literally spoke of the "treason" of democracy. I found that extremely sad, and I am sorry that Mr Kox does not distance himself from it. In any case, I note that he does not feel the same way as Mr Roemer, and that is nice again. Especially because I think there's something Trumpian about having a debate on democracy with terms like "treason." It just can't, not here, not in the Lower House, and as far as I'm concerned, neither can it on Twitter. I believe that the Prime Minister is the only one who thinks that he has campaigned vigorously for the Association Treaty and for the Act of Approval before 6 April. The rest of the Netherlands hardly experienced that. I'm coming to Europe. I agree with the Prime Minister that cooperation is not going well and that a European front, for example with regard to Syria, is extremely fragile, if it already exists. I also agree with him that arbitrariness by the size and importance of countries when it comes to the enforcement of European standards, such as the budget deficit, is out of the question and that it must be maintained and acted firmly. Then our agreement will really stop. The Prime Minister was almost slightly excited when he talked about the political role of the European Commission. He did not just mention a fake parliament in the European Parliament; he said that it is not a real parliament in any of us as we have it here. I note that we are not directly elected and the Members of the European Parliament are, but apparently it is not a real parliament. I don't understand that, and I assume that these were the Prime Minister's personal reprisals. If that is not the case, I have to say that it is the Prime Minister's view that we should go back with Europe in time, that the European Commission should only be an implementing body again, that all power should be in the hands of the Council and the European Council and that Parliament is not a real parliament and, for example, does not have the right to co-decision. I can't imagine the Prime Minister being serious about this. It is a good thing that the Prime Minister does not believe in grand designs, because this would be a very bad grand design. Finally, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers to my comments and questions on European security policy and defence cooperation policy. My group would very much appreciate a little more ambition. When we look at the geopolitical situation at the borders of Europe, we do not really have time to wait and see. I would very much appreciate it if this cabinet, and certainly another cabinet, would be actively involved in this in Europe. Europe will have to act more as a front and speak more as a single voice. In this context, I pointed out the possibility of using the safety council seat of the Netherlands and Italy for European purposes. I'm filing a motion on this. The President shall: Mr De Graaf, Mr Backer, Mr Schnabel, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Brinkman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that greater coherence and cooperation between EU countries in the field of foreign and security policy is necessary, including in the Security Council (VR);]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Italy and Sweden, to commit itself to the Europeanisation of seats occupied by EU countries in the VR, including the temporary Dutch/Italian seat and the permanent French seat, with the activities of these countries in the VR based on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u239	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Prime Minister for his extremely comprehensive and thorough reply. All our questions and comments have been answered. I have some reactions to this. We welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to extending the recovery period for pension funds from 10 to 11 years. That gives air to the funds and time to the politics to look to the future. We are also pleased that the cabinet has indicated that it wishes to discuss the design of the contract with the social partners, particularly within the defined benefit contract, because there is room there to create air for the funds without prejudice to the independent adoption of the UFR. I shall come back to the issue of nuclear disarmament. I owe an apology to the Prime Minister, because in the first place I spoke about the United Nations website, while it was an NGO's website; I looked a little too quickly. Nevertheless, we would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the government's commitment to the outcome of the conference is. The Netherlands abstained in the UN vote, but the conference will be held. If it is successful, we hope that the Netherlands will want to join us, if only because it is so good to hear how much ambition the cabinet is going to show in the future when it comes to nuclear disarmament. Our group supports the line of the cabinet such as the Prime Minister who has set out around the Ukraine referendum. The Prime Minister's words about the situation we are in at the moment, with Russia's aggressive policy towards Ukraine and the importance of cohesion within the European Union and the strengthening of cooperation, are heartfelt to us. We would like to give the cabinet the room to bring this to a successful conclusion. We sincerely hope that the Netherlands will be granted a solution within the cohesion of the other 28 states concerned. Finally, we look forward to the letter that the cabinet is going to send on citizenship in education. It's good to hear it's coming. We hope it will be sent directly to the First Chamber. I would like to inform the Cabinet that making a final degree in social studies in secondary education is very helpful, according to experience, in order to ensure that schools take such a course seriously and that it will also have a full role in the curriculum in primary education. We believe that this will benefit cohesion in Dutch society. In a country where everyone wants and needs to be able to develop, it is incredibly important for everyone to be able to deal with people who are different from each other and that we can build a beautiful society with each other. This evening, we saw a cabinet that is unabatedly ambitious. This is how we have experienced the cabinet in recent years. We wish the Prime Minister and his team a great deal of wisdom and success in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u240	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government for coming to the Chamber and for answering the questions. I am not so satisfied with the answers to the questions I have asked. I think there's still a pain point at the I.T.A.R. That is what we will be discussing again in the future. I'll be back on Ukraine. It is still unclear to me and 2.5 million no-votes what the Prime Minister is going to do. It is clear to us that this PvdA and VVD cabinet is taking every turn in order to get the association agreement with Ukraine out of the way and back to the electorate. Who will become the Prime Minister's minions? What deal did the Prime Minister make with D66 and the CDA in the back rooms? For the PVV and for the majority of voters, it is clear what needs to be done: three letters, N E E, how difficult can this be for Mr de MP? A question about the interview period with the police has not been answered. There is a preferred policy for immigrants with a multicultural background. A selection criterion for having Dutch nationality for a job with the police would be discrimination and the preference for ethnic minorities in the police would not be discrimination. I've asked the Prime Minister to respond to this. I'm still looking forward to his reaction. Then I'd like to talk about the term "the fifth column." This term...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u241	Mrs Faber, I find it very unpleasant that you are raising this discussion again. We talked about it in the first term. I very much urge you to stop talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u242	Madam President, I must say something. We have looked into the Acts of both Chambers and seen that this term has been used a few hundred times. Then why shouldn't I be allowed to use this term? During the Cold War, many MPs from among others liberal, social-democratic and Christian-democratic members called the communists in the Netherlands the fifth column. The CPN chamber member Gortzak, who himself was addressed with this term, even referred to this as a parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u243	Mrs Faber, once again, I do not want to discuss this further. In the second term, you will have a discussion with the Prime Minister and the Cabinet, following the Prime Minister's response in the first term. I don't want to discuss this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u244	So, Madam President, if I understand correctly, you will silence me on the term 'the Fifth Column'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u245	I said all about that in the first term. Once again, I urge you not to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u246	I find this very special, because the term has already been mentioned at least a hundred times in this house. I see this as a form of discrimination and restricting freedom of expression. So we cannot say everything in this House in a debate. I understand you can't insult people, but this isn't an insult, this is just a debate on this proposition. Anyway, I'll put it on our website and then I can...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u247	No, Mrs Faber, once again, it is not a question of discrimination. I asked you in the first term not to use that. I think this is clear. I didn't take the floor from you, and I left it for what it was. However, it is not now a question of opening a debate on this term and discussing the history of the Communist Party, Mr Gortzak and so on. You're having a conversation with the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. I'm just asking you to stick to that, and that's all I'm asking you to do. This doesn't mean I discriminate against you or anything. I'm just saying this is the subject of conversation. I kindly ask you not to discuss subjects that are not at all at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u248	I do notice that I'm being treated differently here, but okay. Well, I guess I'll just move on to my other subject. I am very curious how that will fall, because the fifth column is still nothing. I have to see what I can do now, because I can't talk about that fifth column anymore. So, if you'll just give me a moment. I have to make a big step now anyway. There is indignation about a certain statement, but where was the indignation about the language when the D66 leader this morning talked about infecting society by populism? Infecting implies spreading a disease. Is it acceptable to throw away a group of millions of Dutch voters as such? I can therefore put that question here. I'm gonna switch right back to Mr. Kox. Mr. Kox has a bit of amnesia. He also said I was lying, so I think I should be able to respond to that. In the SP brochure entitled 'Guest labour and capital', from 1983 at that time Mr Kox was already a very prominent SP-politician states: 'One must think about what ghettos will arise from outdated immigrants, and dangerous immigrants for us, if we accept not only their horrific slaughter habits, but also their discrimination against women, their patriarchal-authoritarian arrogance, their submission of children, their tribal fat. Why accept from newcomers what we have cleaned up ourselves in customs and laws?" This is a quote; I don't make it all up myself. Which Mr Kox are we dealing with now? With Mr Kox who thinks immigrants are dangerous, who finds Islamic slaughter habits horrifying, who believes that Muslims discriminate against women, have subjective children and continue to know tribal feuds. Mr Kox, not so long ago, felt that the Netherlands should not accept these habits, which we call Islamization. In the same year, the following quote was published in the SP-magazine De Tribune, "I would like to point out that this is also a quote, because I think this goes very far from the Stalinist Theun de Vries: "I want to hate Islam - the doctrine"...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u249	May I ask you, however, what is the significance of this in the debate we are having with the Cabinet on the General Political Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u250	You may ask. This has been a subject of discussion in the first term. In my second-term contribution, I can go back to that. In addition, I was personally attacked and I think I can defend myself against it. Anyway, I'd like to skip this quote, because I can imagine that this is not so much fun at all. I'll skip this quote, and I'll meet you a little bit. Mr Kox might say: what do I have to do with this? Well, Mr Kox was then editor-in-chief of De Tribune, in which this article was proudly presented, under the responsibility of and with the blessing of Mr Kox. Now I ask Mr Kox: who are you to take the measure? Who are you to lecture me on choice of words regarding Islamization? I blame Kox for concealing these views now. Why is Mr Kox concealing these views? In 2002 he explained this: electoral reasons changed the SP strategy. It is clear that the SP is unfair and, at the same time, leaves the people who voted for the SP and suffer from the Islamization of our country in the lurch. That's how people see it, but it's not all what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u251	Mr. Chairman. I note that I find this extremely unpleasant. This is playing the man. I do not think that is the style that we should continue to apply here. I hope the playing on the man with this is now done. We are engaged in a debate here. I completely renounce what Mrs Faber is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u252	I'd like to respond to this. It's unpleasant, I understand, but when I was accused of being lied, there was no problem with the man being played on. Or maybe in this case, I should say to the woman. But that may be different in Mr Kuiper's circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u253	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answer. When you see the Prime Minister, you think he can go for years. However, this does not necessarily have to be done as Prime Minister. There are other roles conceivable for someone with so many talents than just sitting there. Maybe it's good to trade the tower, I see that he agrees, I understand that! Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, And I understand there are other candidates for that position. We'll see. I would also like to thank colleagues for the constructive discussion. At the beginning of the debate it seemed to me that we would not get anywhere, because we were all a little busy with what is going to happen after 15 March, but in the end I was not so happy with the debate. That can be taken as a compliment. I liked the debate. We have dealt with a great many issues. Unlike Thom de Graaf, I do like it when the Prime Minister in this Chamber of reflection reports something of his reflections to us and is also so fair to say: this is what I say as Prime Minister and that is what I say as Mark Rutte. I think that's useful. Whether it all fits exactly is the question, but sometimes it is inappropriately useful to develop our thoughts. I note that there is a fundamental difference of opinion between my group and the cabinet on how the country stands. According to the Prime Minister, all signals are green. If you look at all the macroeconomic averages, you can indeed say: what is the country doing well? However, we are eight years after the crisis, Prime Minister, and if it is still to be seen that there are so many people who do not yet notice that things are improving, I would say that the signals are not green at all. For those people, they're still on red. The country's well-being and progress should not be measured by macroeconomic averages, but by the people who bear the burden of the crisis. These are the people who are in debt restructuring, the people who have problematic debts, the half-million unemployed we still have, the elderly and pensioners who are left behind in their purchasing power. We measure that, but we do not agree on that. The elections on 15 March will deal, among other things, with this issue. We have talked about European cooperation. In my first term, I indicated that my party is very much in favour of European cooperation. Someone said it here: Socialists are internationalists. Yeah, it's got to be, and it's got to be. But internationalism doesn't mean you have to choose one form of cooperation. I am very much in favour of European cooperation for peace, security and progress, as was said here in The Hague in 1948. I told the Prime Minister that this was not the first time that I felt that we took the wrong turn in Maastricht. I believe that more people are now of this opinion. We're talking about weave errors right now, but I think we're seeing more than weave errors and we've gone the wrong way. We have implemented monetary union at an unprecedented rate. That has never been shown before in history, and that has its consequences. That is where we continue to disagree with the Prime Minister. This will also be the subject of part of the elections. What kind of Europe and what kind of European cooperation do we want? It is clear to everyone that we want this cooperation. That's unspoken for the SP. As I said, socialists are internationalists. I am glad that I can agree with the Prime Minister when he says that although we can all understand why this politicisation of the European Commission is taking place, it is problematic. It's in our election program, so that's where the Prime Minister could vote for the SP. However, there are 250 other things in it why, from his liberal point of view, he should certainly not vote for the SP. But we must think about this and, more than barking at the moon, we must say that this is a false development that does not fit in with the structure of European cooperation. We're gonna have to get away from that. I also agree with the Prime Minister when he says that the European Union should do less and work more on its core tasks. The problem is that what the Prime Minister puts forward as core tasks is not defined by my party as core tasks. As has been said, my party for European cooperation for peace, security and social progress, while the Prime Minister reiterates his love for the market. After all, he said: I am of course very much in favour of the market. I believe that this has been the problem of European cooperation: that we have started to focus on the development of the market rather than on those first tributaries of peace, security and progress. That remains a contradiction between him and my party. With regard to the Ukraine Treaty, the SP maintains that the royal path would have been for the government, after the referendum and after what has been said, to have sent us a repeal law. Now that possibility still exists. The Prime Minister has said: give me six more weeks; I am going to negotiate in Brussels and I am confident that I can draw up a legally binding declaration supported by all 28 countries. However, should that statement also be signed by Ukraine? There is still uncertainty about this. The association agreement had to be signed by 29 countries. Then I have one more question as-dan. If the Prime Minister does not reach that agreement, if not all 27 countries agree with him and Ukraine does not agree with it, what I can imagine extremely vividly when I see the six conditions, will the Cabinet still send us a repeal law? It seems very important to me to get the answer to that. I have heard little from the Prime Minister about a more determined approach to human rights violations in Turkey. What happens there is quite unprecedented. Tens of thousands of people, teachers and civil servants, are being fired, thousands of people are in prisons, prisons are being emptied; the real bad guys are getting out and the people with political opinions go in. Turkey is now the country with most journalists in prison. In southeast Turkey there is almost a civil war. When does the government say more decisively to Turkey: you really go far beyond what is admissible? I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to comment on what I said about the Mediterranean, the sea of civilization and culture, which has brought us this far. How could it have gotten so far that it's a killer's land now? How are we gonna make sure these people don't cross the sea, but they don't drown when they cross that sea? As I said, these are almost 4,000 people this year. That's a real tragedy. I'm glad we're celebrating. I also saw the Home Secretary look very happy. It is very good to celebrate such a great moment in our patriotic history, the introduction of parliamentary democracy. And it could not have been more beautiful: in that same year, the State Commission will be working to keep our parliamentary democracy under review. I am pleased that the Prime Minister, in close consultation with the Minister for the Interior, has said that this committee should be working at the beginning of March. So that is not being lifted over the elections. That's very nice. Finally, I did not comment on the Prime Minister's statement that he does not intend to come up with an alternative to one's own risk. I would remind him, however, that he only needs to look around a little bit to see that a growing group, including politicians, believes that its own risk should or should be reduced. Of course, this subject will also be discussed in the forthcoming election campaign. Thank you again for the debate and I look forward to the last reply from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u254	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive and optimistic response. That's how we know him, of course! However, I found him extra relaxed tonight, as if he were radiating that the job of this cabinet has already been done. But do not praise the day before evening; we still have five months to go and there can still be all kinds of banana peels on your way! However, I wish the Prime Minister and his cabinet good luck with the conclusion. I did taste an ambivalent attitude towards Europe; more ambivalent than I had ever imagined. What I had left was the idea that we need the European Commission as a strong committee because we are a small country, and that we therefore, for opportunistic reasons, embrace the Community character of the European Union. If we ever grow bigger, we can go more intergovernmental. I also have the feeling that the Prime Minister is very keen on a strong Council, but I do not really like to see a strong European Parliament on the contrary. I want to remind him that he's just a co-legislator. The Council and the European Parliament together are the legislators. I really wonder if the Prime Minister has not said so clearly how he sees it, given that we want to involve citizens in the European Union, in the decision-making process, and that we really want to give them a strong role in it. Perhaps I can tell him that a recent TNS NIPO survey has shown that many VVD voters are in favour of even a European federation. Can you imagine? Rutte's position will be contested in his own club. I think this is important, because we may need this Community nature of the EU if we want more solidarity, more strength within the Union, but also on the world stage where we would like to do so much more to combat war and terror. We talked about the division in society. That was a common thread for my group. We see it in many sectors and we are very concerned about it. I am glad that the Prime Minister also indicated that he saw it and said that he was concerned about it. Employment participation is, of course, the first condition for combating and overcoming this division. We would ask him to use the period he has left to take everything out of the box to ensure that this process does not stop in the post-election period. That's why we've prepared the next motion. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Koffeman and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas full participation by all is an important objective of the Cabinet;]] [[Whereas equal opportunities for all in the labour market is a crucial prerequisite for this;]] [[Whereas many studies have shown that these equal opportunities are not achieved in practice and are even more threatened, particularly for people from the lowest socio-economic classes, migrants and people with disabilities, which threatens to create or deepen a division in society;]] [[calls on the Cabinet, in consultation with the ESC, to develop scenarios and practices for the upcoming cabinet formation in order to increase the participation and career opportunities of these groups in the labour market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u255	I have one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u256	You may make a very brief remark, because you have been over your time for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u257	I assume that the cabinet in each ministry still has a to-do list of what remains to be checked. I certainly hope so. We have an inexcusable registration in the Chamber. There are still a number of motions on which the cabinet has not yet responded. One concerns the establishment of individual rights of complaint in human rights treaties, another the establishment of a realistic social minimum in the Caribbean Netherlands. I hope that the next few months will really be used to get these two points on that to-do list. I wish the cabinet good luck in the near future and thank it for its cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u258	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments on the contribution we have just heard from the PVV. I think we should talk in our house about our parliamentary style. We experience it every year in the General Political Reviews. We always reach a new low in the attack on individuals, as we are working with each other here. It's not common in my circle. This house also has its own mores. I think it's a good practice that we remain courteous and focused on the content. My group also thanks the Prime Minister. We did indeed see another driven Prime Minister. We too have enjoyed it. I would like to thank him very much for the attention he has given to the issues which my group considers important and which have been included in this debate. I understand that he will even have a pulpit here in The Hague next Sunday. Hopefully he shows the same drive and control over the themes he has shown here. We are very curious what the sermon will be about. Maybe that can still be revealed. It is also nice that we all have something to remember when we think of 1917. I understand that the entire period 1917-1922 is now commemorated. It is nice that the Labour Party takes the starting point in 1917, because during that period all kinds of things have happened, even a mistake by Troelstra. That fell in that same period and perhaps the whole work of 1917 had been ruined again. However, we are gathered here in a spirit of reconciliation and simply commemorate the whole period 1917-1922. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for paying attention to the role of churches in society. I wanted to draw it here as networks, as places where there is important knowledge about what is happening in society and the willingness and drive of people to reach out to others. Then speaking is indeed important, but also working together. Perhaps there is much more future there, with a view to building society and extending it to people. Personally, I'd like churches to be called in for that. You can already see that happening locally. Looking ahead to a next cabinet, compliance and enforcement was a theme for me. We are getting more and more examples of carelessness when it comes to compliance with rules in sectors. Much attention has recently been paid to the role of inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u259	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u260	Yeah, I'm thinking about time. I'd love it if we could get a response to that. I think that will be an important issue, especially when we want to talk about standards and values in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u261	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed reply. I understand that the Prime Minister cannot be aware of all the files. That makes perfect sense. But in the answer it seems that the Prime Minister does not have the same experience in all respects of compliance with legislation as practice teaches. I addressed the Prime Minister to the fact that last week the 75th victim of Q fever fell, Steve Sibbald from Enschedé. It remains indigestible that the companies facing Q fever, where the livestock has been removed, have been compensated by the government, while that is a business risk, and the residents who have become sick or the relatives of the deceased have not been compensated in any way. The Prime Minister should take this into account in this biggest zoonoses scandal in our history. Victims are forced to go through lengthy, years of legal proceedings to get their rights. With regard to animal intervention, the Prime Minister said that we are making progress there. As an example, he mentioned the piglets' tails. Tonight, RTL News said that the burning of piglets' tails has been prohibited for 25 years and that 750 million piglets' tails are being burned down illegally every year in the Netherlands. Apparently, there's a big gap between perception and reality. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, in his cabinet, which he says has a warm heart for animals, to ask how that gap between perception and reality is possible. The fact that the Prime Minister spoke of tomorrow's chicken also bears witness to this. He also made it clear himself that that is a non-serious marketing concept. That's right. In 2015, the Authority concluded that the marketing agreements on tomorrow's chicken were prohibited, were contrary to the Competition Act and that the welfare improvements were marginal. Since then, tomorrow's chicken doesn't exist. I don't see anything about yesterday's Prime Minister, but this was yesterday's answer. In that sense, I would like the Prime Minister to address his officials and say that he wants up-to-date information when he gives answers. In any case, I welcome his commitment that in a few weeks' time he will come forward with a cabinet response to the SER report which recommends that seven out of ten livestock farms should no longer be subsidised, because they have no future because they do not produce sustainably. I also welcome the fact that this commitment means that the cabinet will present a clear position, well before the elections. That's important. We look forward to that. The outcome of the Ukraine referendum could not possibly be interpreted as a "no, unless," let alone that, as the Prime Minister now wishes, the "yes, if" route can be chosen. It is in no way legitimized by the search for goat paths and mouse holes. That is not the path that democratic processes should take. A repeal law by 15 March, or at least clarity on it, is the least the electorate is entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u262	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply and also for the way in which: sometimes in an almost airy way, sometimes carefully searching for words, particularly on ethical issues. We did not agree on everything, but it ended up with a commitment from my side to the Prime Minister. I'm sending the Prime Minister a link to the documentary Life End Clinic. If he gives me his address later, he'll get it tonight. I like to deal with commitments quickly. The Prime Minister indicated that the motion on a earner would have been carried out. The motion asked to narrow the gap between one and two earners. I think it is a misconception, because that has not yet been achieved; that gap has been deepened. In an interrupting debate on the disproportionate tax burden, the Prime Minister finally promised me that I would look at that problem. That is a positive start, but watching alone is not enough. Research is needed and action is then needed, not only for the groups already appointed, but also for other groups affected by it. That is why I have tabled a motion to that effect. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Kox, Mr Kuiper, Mr Nagel and Mr Brinkman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas different groups of taxpayers face a disproportionate tax burden;]] [[noting that there are situations where the marginal tax burden rises to around 90%;]] [[Whereas this severely reduces the incentive to increase employment rates and undermines the objective of fairness in taxation;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate groups of taxpayers disproportionately affected by excessive tax burden, to take measures to normalise tax rates for these groups and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-34550-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u263	In the meantime, the Prime Minister has sent me his address. Thank you very much for that! I think he'll have time tonight, because we'll be done sooner than we expected. Maybe he can see the documentary tonight. I was pleased to be surprised by the Prime Minister's approach to the debate on values and standards. The churches do indeed have an important role in this. In these churches more is done than just looking at social topics. There is also prayer, weekly, for you and your government. This will continue to be the case in the coming period. I wish you every success in the coming months, in which this cabinet still has a great deal to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u264	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We have a question for him about Mrs Barth's speech. Already on 15 September, the FNV advocated urgent measures by the cabinet to prevent the pensions of many Dutch people from being reduced in 2017. It was asked to extend the recovery periods of pension funds. Nothing's happened since then, and we haven't heard from him since. In this second term, the Labour Party, in Mrs Barth's person, expresses its satisfaction with the commitment to extend the recovery period from 10 to 11 years. Was that indeed a firm commitment, or is it just being looked at at at the moment? We would like a clear answer. I come to the actual situation with regard to pensions. We have already said in the first period that there have been no indexations in recent years, that there have been discounts and that there will be no indexations in the coming years. We have talked about VAT and the purchasing power that is falling further. And now there is the threatening discount in 2017. It would be a national disgrace if pensions were reduced in 2017. We can't let that happen. 50PLUS thinks we should warn the cabinet that if it does, a mobilisation will take place in the Netherlands which will reach a climax on 15 March. In order to send a clear signal, we are therefore submitting the next motion. The President shall: Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Kok proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas most pensions have not been indexed in recent years and a number of funds had to make reductions;]] [[Whereas it is likely that pensions will not be indexed in the coming years;]] [[Whereas the absence of indexing for years has left the purchasing power of pensioners far behind in comparison with the purchasing power of the workers;]] [[Whereas the system of laws and regulations is threatening a further reduction in pensions in 2017;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with adjustments to avoid the threat of reductions in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u265	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for his admirable response to all the points that have been raised. An important point was the discussion about the EU. I was very pleased with the way the Prime Minister talked about it. The euro and the EU are vital and vital for the Netherlands. I believe that I have never heard a Prime Minister speak of the EU in this way. I'd have liked that sooner. If the Prime Minister wants to tell us this clearly and everywhere, then I am delighted. However, we do not agree in every respect on the EU, as has also been shown in the discussion. I believe that the Prime Minister is failing the role of the Commission and Parliament, also compared to what is intended for that purpose in the Treaty of Lisbon. That will also cause him not to be very happy with the Spitzen candidates, as it worked the last time and probably will work in the future, and I am very happy with that. That is not even so much because of the politicisation of the Commission, but much more because of giving Parliament a political face to the whole population. That must be able to act as a genuine parliament, and that objective is served by it. Another point is the Ukraine Treaty. If the Prime Minister succeeds in having an interpretive statement with the six points he has mentioned adopted by the 28 countries and probably also by Ukraine, then he will do a good job with that as far as I am concerned. I believe that he has responded fully to the specific objections that have been raised to the Ukraine Treaty. There has been a lot of undefined talk in the 'no' campaign, and there has been protests against the Treaty as such, but what has come out concretely is answered. I have limited myself to points I mentioned in my first term. At the end of the debate I spoke about the extraction of gas, but the Prime Minister did not go into that again. I would like to put two more points to him, because I think it is important for a Prime Minister to have an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u266	Do you think about your time, Mr Ten Hoeve?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u267	I'm almost done. The first point is that there has been further unrest in Groningen, after it has been found that a lot of money goes into valuation, consultation and assessment and very little into concrete refurbishing. This again gives a feeling that this matter is approached with a grocery mentality. It's not supposed to be like this. I understand, however, that the government does not immediately have a complete solution. But I do not think it is too much to ask that the Prime Minister has an opinion on this. The second point...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u268	I really need to interrupt you now. You asked the questions in the first place. If it's okay, the Prime Minister heard them right and he can answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u269	The Prime Minister could read through my last point on this. Furthermore, I would very much like to wish the cabinet a flawless conclusion of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u270	I understand that the Prime Minister would like a few minutes' suspension to consider his second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u271	Mr. Chairman. I have noted Mr Brinkman's comments on the monuments and the Dutch Bank. I will come back to this in the context of pensions, including Mrs Barth's comment. I very much agree with Mr Brinkman on Europe and the enforcement of the commitments in the Stability and Growth Pact. As I said, we are going to respond to the motion from the House of Representatives on the ECB. I still owe Mr Brinkman an answer on the free movement of convicted persons. The Minister of V and J will inform the Chamber of progress by letter. An action plan has been drawn up to reduce the number. We share the concerns expressed by the CDA on this issue. This really needs to be improved. That is what the Minister for Security and Justice is working on, and that is what a letter will soon be about. A second issue concerns environmental visions. I have resurfaced the question again; I apologize that it had not been answered in the first period. The question was about the fact that there is no need for "more diverse but faster established and more practically applicable environmental visions, which also facilitate changes of destination in these changing times." That was Mr Brinkman's text. I have a few comments to make. The Minister of I and M is working on the Environment Act. Part of this is the National Environment Vision, which replaces the various notes relating to the physical environment. The Environment Act will give municipalities more flexibility for the design of an environmental plan. That's the replacement of a zoning plan in the Environment Act. The task of ensuring more space for construction lies with the municipalities. They shall ensure that there is sufficient space and capacity in the zoning plans. Where necessary, the Empire supports this, for example through the expert teams for the transformation of old buildings and factories. Also starts from 1 January a cooperation table center rental. It's designed to expand the middle-rent segment. The assessment of the landlord levy and the financial transfer of the corporation sector shows that the landlord levy should not constitute an obstacle to investment. I think I answered the CDA's questions with that. I come to the input of the VVD. First of all, it was requested to receive a letter before the AFB on uncovered legislative proposals. We have just figured it out: that seems a little too ambitious, because that letter must also be sent by the Council of Ministers and so on. We'll do it as soon as possible and at least for the Christmas tree. If it's possible sooner, the letter will obviously come sooner. I have noted the comments on the state committee. I heard them right. I'm getting to D66's input. Once again, my comment on the European Parliament was really too short, as I said in the first term. I did not want to say that it is not a parliament. I just meant... Okay, well, I'm not gonna explain it anymore. I would just like to add my voice to what Mr De Graaf said about it. I think that's best. A motion has been tabled on the Europeanisation of the UN Security Council. I'll be on the motions in a minute. To Mrs Barth of the Labour Party, I must say very clearly that I have not made a commitment to extend the recovery period. In November, DNB's investigation will take place. In January there will be a decision as to whether we are going to do so. I have to say that very clearly, otherwise I will put Mrs Klijnsma in an impossible position. So we're going to look at it in the near future on the basis of the DNB opinion. There will then be a decision or no decision in January. Mr Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u272	I give the floor to Mr Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u273	Sorry, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u274	That I requested a response for the General Financial Reviews has been given...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u275	May I also ask you to take an arm length. Yes, very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u276	... due to the fact that pension funds would otherwise have to decide on indexation or partial indexation just before Christmas. If an adjustment of the cabinet to the advice of the Nederlandsche Bank were to come into view, it would be better if we already knew this in the General Financial Reviews. I would therefore like to repeat this request with some urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u277	I know it all by heart, of course, but to include the Secretary of State, I have just consulted her. I'm gonna put it right. The General Financial Reviews will be held here 22 November. We have that advice in November. So that's not gonna work. Mr Brinkman's point is quite right. You also want to prevent pension funds from cutting short because they have had too little time, when it would not appear to be necessary in the near future. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State, who's behind me here. She says: even if it comes in December or early January, it is still in time for pension funds to be involved in their decisions. It is therefore not the case that pension funds could be cut in the near future, which would not have been necessary if these recovery periods were to be extended for a year. On that point, let me say that we will make that timetable clear in a brief letter to the Chamber. Shall we? We'll send the two chambers that exact timetable. That is about the advice of the Dutch Bank and the reaction of the cabinet. This will also show that, should this lead to an increase in the recovery period, which is in time to prevent pension funds from getting short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u278	So that we also have the opportunity to return to it during the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u279	Yes. And that is of course good, because if we send that letter about that flowchart now, it can be dealt with during the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u280	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u281	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u282	In any case, I can see here today that the option of extending the recovery period is very clearly on the table with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u283	Sure, sure. I couldn't agree more. I'm gonna be on that U.N. Web site. We took a good look at it. It turns out that it is probably an NGO website, as Mrs Barth said. Apart from the question of where exactly it is, I say that the negotiations on the treaty will start in March 2017. The Netherlands will take part in this, despite our abstention from the resolution. We do that without prejudging a final judgment. So it may also be possible to negotiate with countries that have voted against it. In that respect, this abstention does not say anything about our final judgment. I think that will remove the misunderstandings about that. I'm on the DBA and the VAR Act. It's November 1st today, so we're halfway through the implementation period. The Secretary of State for Finance sent the first progress report in September. It was discussed in the House of Representatives. He has announced the next mid-term report for December of this year. In it he will report the progress of the model agreements, the insights we get from the established hotline and the results of the review. There is an independent committee led by Prof. Boat. It concerns the review of the assessment of the model agreements by the Tax Administration. There will be no post-tax and no fines imposed on benevolent entrepreneurs. That's what I said before. The preliminary report goes, of course, to the Upper House. I therefore believe that it is best to wait for this already promised progress report and, on that basis, to see if there is still a need for more information. We expect what Mr De Graaf wants to have to be in there. If that is not the case, let us have a quick contact to see if we can provide additional services to the Chamber. I come to the Socialist Party and the core tasks. Mr Kox says: back to the core tasks. We agree on that. That is what the Commission is doing. However, we do not agree on the core tasks. I think that's exactly the right summary. By the way, Mr Kox says: it is either market or it is 'Nie wieder Krieg'. The Minister for Finance reminded me of the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community. The good thing is that the ECSC, together with the strong internal market in coal and steel, has shown in a wonderful way that a strong internal market also leads to a sharp decline in war. So now we see that tonight, at this beautiful moment, the Socialist Party and the VVD are reaching each other. We should enjoy that, too. "With the help of the Labour Party," I hear sounds from the audience. That's right. Mr Kox also asked what is happening with the declaration by the Heads of State or Government in Ukraine, which we are striving for. Should Ukraine agree to this? No, that's okay. We will, of course, keep Ukraine very closely connected. However, it is a decision of the Heads of State or Government of Europe. Is there gonna be a withdrawal bill if there's no consent? It's obvious. Anyway, I really don't want to speculate now about the situation that arises if it doesn't work out. Never conjunction defeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u284	To clarify, I would like to ask the following. The Association Agreement is an agreement between the EU and Ukraine. How can you agree a legally binding statement with 28 out of 29 parties? I don't understand. You have a deal. There will be an addition, an amendment, an amendment or whatever you call it. But Ukraine does not have to agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u285	No, that's okay. In fact, it is a decision of the European Heads of State or Government to clarify parts where articles can be misread, to clarify parts which are unclear and which are unclear in the public debate. I said that in the first term. I also said that very high representatives of Europe said at some point: yes, it is actually a bit pre-accession. All these matters must be resolved and cleared up in that decision. It's legally binding. But the intention is not to change the text of the agreement. It is about making it clear from the European side that there can be no ambiguity on these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u286	It's too late for me to figure all this out, but I don't think you can change a contract if you take one of the parties out of play. I'm gonna think about it and we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u287	That's what I was afraid of. I also have to answer the question from the Socialist Party about Turkey. For the record, this cabinet condemns cleansing and condemns any violation of the rule of law. However, in the relationship between countries, and especially among allies, we must at the same time also attach importance to fair judgment, to agreed procedures. That is why a thorough examination of the Council of Europe is needed here. Turkey has also committed itself to this. I think it's a good thing there's a neutral arbitrator to map this out exactly. However, if this is the case, it will of course be condemned with the most firm words. Mrs Strik made a comment on ambivalence with regard to the European Union. I understand what she's saying. She says: you can understand the words in such a way that the emphasis on the Community method gives the impression that we know ourselves as a smaller Member State, and that if we get bigger, we might want intergovernmental. By the way, we have to be very big. I think it's less pragmatic than that. At least I didn't want to say it that way. It is more that I wanted to point out a tradition in which the Netherlands stands. I remember the conclusion of the Fiscal Compact in 2011. That was necessary at the time because Britain and another Member State I think it was Hungary that refused to join. Then it had to be resolved intergovernmentally. That is far from preferable. It's always less obvious. It is less embedded in European institutions. You will have very complicated discussions about the use of European bodies in such an intergovernmental agreement. England and Hungary must say 'yes' to that. For all these reasons, it is less desirable. But also because of ensuring the objective implementation of European agreements, I think it is wise to continue to argue for a strong Commission. That's actually what I wanted to say. So it is less pragmatic, but it is good that I can explain it here. It is true that next Sunday I can hold the Sermon of the Leek in the Duinzichtkerk here in The Hague. My own church, of course, is, as we know, the Badkapel. However, the Dune View Church is also very beautiful. Besides, I thought it was the Church of the Vice President of the Council of State, so it's a place to be anyway. But, having said that, let me know that I will not confine myself to one Bible text there. Now that I finally get to preach for once, I come up with several Bible texts, and of course I can't do that in a sermon at all. But I'm gonna try. Thank you for the presentation of Troelstra's mistake, so that we can add a third element to the celebration of one hundred years 1917. That's very useful. I would also like to reply to Mr Kuiper on the issue of enforcement and perseverance. This also has to do with the NVWA, to which he referred in his first term. Indeed, I have not been able to answer that question properly. Enforcement and supervision are essential for this cabinet. Laws and regulations that are not complied with have no social added value. This is also reflected in the fact that the number of infringements dealt with by administrative bodies increased by 70% between 2007 and 2015. The issues are diverse. Enforcement and monitoring should be in line with this. Standards whose enforcement can in concrete cases be left to the legal person whose interest has been infringed by the actual infringement are, of course, eligible for private law enforcement. Think of violating rent laws. The cases in which this is not possible are eligible for public enforcement through criminal law or administrative law. Think of environmental legislation. The starting point is that criminal law is the ultimate remedium. Enforcement and supervision are not static. Society is changing. The challenges and risks change. The organisation of enforcement and monitoring must therefore be changed. The internationalisation of the food sector led to a rethinking of the surveillance of the meat sector. In other sectors, too, economic and technological developments can lead to rethinking of supervision. I would like to thank Mr Schalk very much for his comments. What he said about the weekly prayer touched me. Many churches pray for government and parliament. Also his words that the church is more than a place where social issues come together touch me; it's also a place where perhaps I can light up a little tip of the veil of my Leek's sermon of the Leek of delay in a positive sense. It is about reflection, delay and of course also about prayer and direct contact with God. The OSF had asked another question about gas extraction. The government believes that the region should be compensated for damage caused by gas extraction in Groningen. We understand that the slow handling of recovery and the slow start of preventive measures led to frustration. The National Coordinator Groningen has been set up to speed up and take care of the citizens in this respect. The new multiannual programme will further strengthen this commitment. I can inform Mr Ten Hoeve that at the beginning of December the Minister of EZ will inform the Parliament. Which brings me to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u288	Mrs Faber wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u289	May I conclude that the Prime Minister is done answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u290	Sure. But I understand that Mrs Faber feels differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u291	That's a correct conclusion. I am now asking you for the third time about police preference policy. I asked a question about a selection criterion for having Dutch nationality for a job with the police. That would be discrimination. A preference for ethnic minorities with multiple cultural backgrounds would not be discrimination in the police. In fact, therefore, there is a double measure. I've asked for a response from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u292	I did miss something. Sorry about that. The main point is that the selection criteria and the quality of the police are not affected. Everyone, regardless of his or her background, has the same requirements, which are not watered down. If someone does not pass the selection procedure, he or she always has the opportunity to apply again. That goes for everyone. Furthermore, the diversity of the corps needs to be increased. It'll make the force more effective. That means that you also need to take additional measures. I think Mrs Faber is referring to one of those measures, the Blue Talent training programme. That is a pilot, a program for a select number of candidates with a dual cultural background that scored high during the selection but did not pass the procedure. They're getting nailed. Then it is often on things that were less developed precisely because of that bicultural background, such as language and conversation techniques. So they score well, but because of their background they appear to have a weakness there. That group should then simply participate in the regular selection procedure again, meeting the same criteria. There's no watering down anywhere. This seems to me to be a good staff policy. I shall now proceed to the motion under letter D of the Member De Graaf c.s. on the UN Security Council. I think she's policy support. It is not possible, by the way, to use this joint seat for this purpose, because Italy also needs to find something. But why D66 is asking here is also an opinion of the government. We continue to look for ways of involving European countries such as the UK, France and Germany, all of which have a permanent seat in a reformed UN Security Council, including Germany, in this debate on a European seat. As far as I am concerned, this is support for policy. If the motion is passed, we will work on it with even more energy. In the motion under letter E of the member Strike c.s. calls for full participation and equal opportunities. I'd say judge Room. Economic and Social Committee opinions usually have a somewhat longer lead time. However, the ESC has indicated that it is in the process of delivering an opinion on the labour market. I think it would be a good thing if this motion were adopted to pass on this wish from the Chamber to the ESC. The motion under letter F of the member Schalk c.s. I'd like to dissuade you. Each earner gains as much as the average Dutchman, about 0.4%. The reduction of the double tax rebate is a deliberate policy to increase the employment rate of women. The tariffs are standardized. 90% decrease can only be achieved if all supplements disappear. This is precisely what was meant for the bottom of the labour market. So we'll see what happens to the motion, but for my part, I'd like to dissuade her. The same applies to the motion under letter G of the Member Nagel c.s. After all, in mid-November, DNB comes up with this report, about which I have just said something. We have already agreed that we will look at extending the recovery periods by one year. These General Political Reviews are the last of this cabinet in missionary state. There's still a real chance that we'll be back here next year, but then missionary, if you go through your eye hairs looking at the election results and how complicated the formation can get. If we're still here in this composition, we're missionary; tonight we're here for the last missionary. The cabinet, may I say that, Mr. Chairman? This opportunity for reflection by your members of the cabinet policy has been greatly appreciated. The same applies in recent years. With the increased pace of action and reaction in politics and the media, it is important and much needed to consider the broad lines of policy independently of concrete issues, from different viewpoints. Some speakers have drawn attention to the coming year of commemoration 2017. I've tried to go into that. It is not about the Reformation, which started in Wittenberg, or about the communist revolution in Russia, but about our own patriotic pace of constitutional reform of 1917. I am pleased that even from a completely unsuspecting angle, the placement of portraits by Thorbecke and Cort van der Linden has been advocated. According to his biographer, Van Cort van der Linden's words are: "Politics is the art of the accessible. A politician sets himself an objective that he wants to achieve and considers, to what extent the resources available to him are sufficient. If they are not sufficient, he sets himself a goal, in accordance with his principles, that what he desires to achieve is nearest." Those are words in which I can recognize myself, and that goes for many of us. They also contain a message for all those who realise that there are no obvious majorities, but that arguments matter in decision-making. That is also what our relationship as a cabinet has signed with this Chamber over the past four years. From this attitude, Cort van der Linden and his cabinet managed to achieve the great work of the 1917 Constitutional Review. At Christmas 1918, after the failed attempt at revolution, he looked back with the words: "democracy will be sustainable as it brings freedom." That is and remains a joint task for us as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-6.u293	This ended the Prime Minister's second-term reply. Before we proceed to the vote, we shall suspend the vote. You have all received a package of motions, including the letters they have received. The motion of member Schalk c.s. under letter F is also signed by Mr Brinkman.
