ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. "The higher the speed on the A2, the fewer farmers in De Ronde Venen can expand," the General Dagblad reported last Thursday. If you read that, the first thought is that we in the Netherlands seem to have made the legislation so that a speed increase will put farmers who want to expand in trouble. There is, of course, limited environmental space in the Netherlands, which we have established with laws and with a thick set of rules. Due to certain circumstances and technological developments, there may be situations which do fall within a certain standard, whereas they did not in the past. This creates so-called environmental space. The question is, who can take that space? Can the government say, "You know what, we have some environmental space, we're increasing the speed limit?" As a result, the rest will have nothing and farmers and other companies will no longer have room to pursue enlargement plans. Even if, for example, new roads are to be built in that grid, citizens in that part of the country will not be able to get new roads, because the government has extended the 130 km zone. At Schiphol Airport we already know the 50/50 approach, where the space that is created is equally divided. Is that an idea for this, too? Is it true that not only farmers, but all farms are faced with a nitrogen ceiling? Or does this only apply to farmers if we increase speed? And, if so, what about the other companies in that area? We also read that the municipality of De Ronde Venen would like to discuss this with the minister. Can we get the letter that reports on that conversation and the conclusions? Has there been a conversation at all? Does the Minister agree with the 50/50 approach, which also applies at Schiphol Airport when it comes to environmental benefits? Is the Minister prepared at least in the areas covered by the PAS scheme to make a pass on the taking-up of the environment area? If you have to make the choice, couldn't the 130 kilometer plans be put on the long track in that field?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert raised a number of questions concerning the PAS regime. The PAS scheme was extensively discussed in the Chamber last year. It has been said that there is scarce nitrogen space and that, if we want to develop, we must achieve a distribution. It has been widely discussed that there is scope for development for farmers, for industry and for the development of traffic. It is therefore not the case, as the article suggests, that the implementation of a speed increase or the construction of a road is at the expense of agriculture. It has been agreed in advance which category has what space. The increase in speed has therefore not been at the expense of the opportunities for farmers in De Ronde Venen. That is a system we have created with each other, precisely in order to continue to create developments in all these areas for the future. Mr Van Helvert then asked whether the 50/50 system of Schiphol could be applied. The particular thing is that in traffic nitrogen emissions have fallen so dramatically over the past period that space has also been created for the other categories, for industry and for agriculture. I could say: then I take back some of that. But I don't, because we've just agreed on how to apply that division. That has been discussed extensively. I believe that a fair and fair division was made at that time. Finally, the remark that the municipality wants to discuss De Ronde Venen. The Ronden Venen currently objects and wishes to appeal in respect of the 130 km/h. As long as those things are under the judge, you don't have to talk about them in a different way. Furthermore, we have only been told through the media that a conversation is needed. There is therefore no record of an earlier discussion in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Do I understand correctly that it is wrong what is in that article and that the farmer can basically just keep his plans going? Of course we do not know exactly what the plans are, but then there would be no obstacle to going from 100 km/h to 130 km/h. If that is the case, I am very pleased with the Minister's answer, because the CDA is also okay with driving 130 km/h. We don't even have a problem with that at all. However, we have set the conditions that the previous agreements with municipalities will be respected and that we should not make huge investments in clean air and in combating additional noise pollution. If we stay in there, we think it's fantastic that you can just blow through the motorway where it is possible. But do I understand correctly that in principle the farmer does not see his plans being further blocked by the speed increase from 100 km/h to 130 km/h?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	It is true that this increase in speed does not hinder that farmer. There is room for agricultural development. The provinces issue the permits for this and they also deal with the distribution. There are a lot of requests, so it may be that this farmer is being hindered because his colleagues were earlier or because there is little room at all in that area, but that is not the result of the increase in speed. Once again, we have agreed on a division, that is, part for industry, part for agricultural development and part for traffic development.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's good to hear. Thank you for that. What is the state of play with regard to the consultations between the surrounding municipalities on the different speed changes that have taken place? I just heard the minister say there's still a lawsuit going on. Are there any other court cases at the moment and, if so, what are the differences of opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	There are several lawsuits from various municipalities that indicate that they prefer not to take 130 km/h. The causes of these lawsuits are diverse, they are very often political. In this case, there has been a court case in which the judge ruled that the increase could rightly be made possible. The municipality has indicated that it will appeal, but we haven't seen any of that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	I have another supplementary question. The minister says there's room because cars have become so much cleaner. Recently we have had the Volkswagen scandal, which shows that the research data has been highly manipulated. Renault is also under attack and there are more car manufacturers who have embellished or falsified the data. How can the Minister so firmly say that there is much more room and why should this space be filled with other activities that cause more nitrogen to be emitted immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	We have calculated and measured both in recent years as regards the reduction of nitrogen.. Between 1990 and 2014, this reduction in road traffic was 70%. That's huge. Until 2030, we expect this to be about 50%. That's a lot, and that's because the cars are getting cleaner and cleaner. Volkswagen and other brands indeed have in their brochures that they have a certain amount of emissions, but in the Netherlands we have based our policy not on brochures but on TNO measurements of actual emissions. We have always taken account of actual emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Then the second part of the question. Why not just stop if there are already too many emissions? These emissions would be reduced, and nature could use it very well. Why is nature not left to nature and is that hole immediately filled, with which an invisible nitrogen blanket is laid over nature again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	We have agreed at European level on acceptable nitrogen emissions. We're at 40 micrograms. For road traffic, we don't go any further than 38 micrograms, if we fill it up. In practice, we are at 99% of the roads even at 35 micrograms. So we're not filling it up completely. That is not because it is a choice, but because it works out and traffic is getting cleaner faster and faster. If you want to make another political choice and say you want zero nitrogen, you can, but that's another choice. We have said together that this is an acceptable amount of emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	The Minister just said that emissions are not only calculated, but also measured. How is that possible, while there is only one measurement point throughout the Netherlands on all routes that now go to 130 km/h?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	This is because the validation of the model is measured. We have calculations on the front. The model shall be validated on the basis of measurements. Thereafter, further monitoring is carried out on the basis of calculations. I've shown that in the past, as you know. I always say: I only do it where I can, within the limits of noise, emissions or safety. At the moment when we see that it would go beyond a standard, I am also prepared to take measures, either to reduce emissions or to reduce speed. I've shown you that once. I am completely transparent in this. Anyone can follow that. You have very often requested all the data so that you have been able to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you.
