ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Since 10 October 2010, we have the consensus Rijkswet Financiële Overzicht Curaçao and Sint Maarten that regulates the obligations of financial management, budgetary responsibility and expenditure accounting. These rules are crystal clear. Consensus also means that all countries, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands, are in common agreement with that state law. I have to say that Curaçao has taken great steps towards improving the financial problems that existed under the Scottish Government. There had to be a clue at the time to get the finances in order, and they're heading in the right direction. On Saint Martin, it's a completely different story. Almost no budget has been submitted in time or provided for a direct approval of the Financial Supervision Board. In fact, Sint-Maarten had a lead on 5 September 2015. Did Saint-Maarten do anything with that? No. The 2016 budget does not meet the requirements. With all these things combined, according to the Rijkswet financial supervision Curaçao and Sint Maarten it is not possible for Sint-Maarten to borrow money. Now the liquidity position of Sint-Maarten appears to be so poor that without a loan there are major problems. The Minister wrote that there was a "technical default" situation. What does that mean? And what are the consequences for the Netherlands? You can see the repayment date of a loan coming. Why has no more emphasis been placed on keeping financial management in order, so that Sint-Maarten can simply meet the requirements of the National Financial Supervision Act Curaçao and Sint Maarten? How many loans are still eligible for refinancing in the coming years? Finally. Why is a seven-year loan drawn up immediately? Why doesn't that happen every year? After all, it is a fine stick behind the door to get the financial business in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman asked about the progress of the loan to Saint Martin. The Chamber was informed by letter of 14 October of this situation. The loan, which expired on 1 October, was scheduled to be replaced by a new loan on the island of Sint-Maarten. On 18 August I received the advice of the College of Financial Supervision to allow a new loan. Shortly afterwards, I received an opinion from the College of Financial Supervision on the state of play regarding the budget of Saint Martin and it showed that the government of Saint Martin did not comply with the designation. That was the reason for me to consult with the CFT on whether it would be wise to grant a new loan. I agree with Mr Bosman that everyone in the Kingdom must keep to the agreements. We also went into consultation with St.Maarten. We have pointed out that it is strange to assume on the one hand that there will be a new loan, while on the other hand the budget designation has not yet been met. We have, of course, also discussed the consequences of not granting a new loan. Failure to grant a new loan at all would cause major financial problems. That is the default situation that Mr Bosman asked for, and I believe that this is in the interests of no one. However, it would not be appropriate simply to grant a new loan. That is why we have calculated the rate at which the existing loan can be repaid. We have also taken into account the budgetary standards set out in the designation. This has resulted in us offering Saint Martin a repayment schedule of the existing loan instead of a new loan. It's a seven-year payoff. In the first two years there will be no reimbursement, but from 2019. There is also a higher interest rate, which indicates that this is not really the way it should be. We offer St.Maarten the possibility to redeem at a rate that is financially possible, but we also do not allow this event to pass silently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	I get that. I am also pleased to see proactive action being taken. I am very curious what the consequence of such a "technical default" could be for the Netherlands. What does that mean? What happens to Saint Martin? Does it have consequences for the Netherlands? What does that tell you? And what are the consequences? Sint-Maarten is not only slow in implementing the other agreements to improve financial management, but also in terms of good governance. It turns out the integrity room hasn't been filled out yet. Why does St.Maarten have the space to fail to meet the requirements? The prison on Sint-Maarten remains a matter of great concern. On 21 September this year, the Law Enforcement Council said that the situation in the Point Blanche prison in Saint Martin has never been so worrying. Thanks to the VVD, there is still a programme of action in place to ensure that improvements are made. Is there any structural opposition of St Maarten to the points of improvement? What explanation does Saint Martin have for this? Why hasn't there been any more pressure to put things in order? There has been a problem on Saint Martin for six years now. How much time will the government of Saint Martin still have to put things in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Bosman asks me a very large number of questions. I propose that I answer the questions about prison in writing, because they are of a very different nature. I come to the question of what it would mean if there was a default. If a country in general can no longer pay its debts, it will have serious consequences for that country. It will not be able to attract new funding which will prevent some expenditure from being incurred. The expenditure a country spends mostly relates to civil servants' salaries, pension benefits and the police. We cannot guarantee that this situation will not occur, and the consequences are serious, but that situation is not happening now. We didn't choose to pretend nothing was going on. We have not completed the preferred option of Sint-Maarten to grant a new loan. We have agreed to refund the existing loan in schematics that are justified. We're also charging a higher fine. In this situation, therefore, we cannot really say that the Netherlands takes the attitude as if it were normal. However, the measures are of such size that they can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	Let me come back to the technical default. It is said that it is very bad for a country if it cannot meet the requirements. But we're in a kingdom. The Statute states, in my view, in Article 36, that we are providing mutual assistance; that is an obligation. To what extent can the Minister indicate that in a default situation this never flows to the Netherlands? Is there a fence around the islands, so it can never go to the Netherlands at a technical default?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	A default is such a serious situation that I cannot speculate on what the Netherlands is doing or not. There may be a situation in which basic provisions cannot be paid. I just outlined that, for example, police facilities or pensions could not be paid. The supply of water and food could be at stake. I do not think it is right to say in advance: let us leave it that way. Nor does it seem to me to be purely to say in advance: then we will always help. I think we have correctly indicated with the measures relating to the loan that the Netherlands really does not let it pass if agreements made are not complied with. The way in which the redemption is now being shaped is really much stricter, and because of the higher interest rates it was more painful than the first wish of the government of Saint Martin. However, we also choose a measure that is feasible. That will always be the course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	Then it is interesting to see when the following loans will be renewed. That was my question. I can imagine that's not immediately available. However, it is a point that we are seeing the end of these loans coming. Every time we at St.Maarten we pretend it's a surprise when it's not in order there. In the end, the next time a loan has to be issued, we can indicate that financial management must be in order. We can work towards the moment. We can just make arrangements with Saint Martin, I presume. What's the timeline for that next loan? In this way, we can ensure that financial affairs are in order, so that the country is not at risk of default.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	I agree with Mr Bosman that in your financial management, also long-term, you must work towards the repayment schedules of loans. I would be happy to provide a written overview of the outstanding loans and the expiry dates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	Saint Martin is a small country and a young country. So I can imagine anything that sometimes things go wrong in that country. However, what we see is that governments each time we have had many governments in a short period of time, we have not complied with agreements, especially agreements on financing, money, refunds, giving and delivering figures and having budgets audited. Now there will be a new government with Theo Heyliger's UP Party. Does this minister have any confidence that there will now be the intention to cooperate honestly with the Netherlands? What are we gonna do? Are we going to work with a government over the next four years that doesn't even intend to meet with the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	The Dutch Government will also make agreements with the new government which are in the interests of the Kingdom and then check that those agreements are complied with. The situation surrounding the loan that Mr Bosman just asked for illustrates that we are not just letting things go. I indicated that it was initial advice to give a new loan, but that, on the basis that the designation was not fulfilled properly, I took the initiative not to just give a new loan. Measures are therefore being taken and reins cited. That's always customization. When it comes to prisons or law enforcement, that is another question than when it comes to finance. However, it is not the case that there is a carte blanche for the government of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. If it's all right, we're going to swear Mr. Van der Velde on behalf of the PvdA. I will wait until all my colleagues are present for the swearing-in.
