ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u1	We're ready for the government's first term. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science, Mr Dekker, and to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Griffin has asked me to keep it short. I'm gonna try. I understand that the Chamber is in need of the Prime Minister to be as firm as he is about to be. Last Wednesday, the Chamber discussed the draft law Together stronger by simplifying cooperation school. Since 2011, it is legally possible to form a cooperation school. A cooperation school is a form of education that potentially provides a solution in areas with drop in pupils. In cores where there are not enough pupils to maintain both a public school and a special school, the formation of a cooperation school can ensure that at least one good school remains, which is strong, meets parents' wishes and ensures diversity. You could say: together, the public school and the special school are stronger. Although this formal possibility exists in the law since 2011, it has not really provided any comfort. The requirements of the law are so strict that schools can get away with it badly. That is why they choose a different form, a so-called informal school of cooperation. An informal cooperation school is a school which, although registered as a public school or as a special school, presents itself outwardly as a cooperation school and also organises education. A Protestant-Christian school says, for example, with the knowledge of the municipality, that he teaches public education, whereas the municipality has no formal involvement in that education. Or a public school, which according to the law is philosophically neutral, says that there is also teaching from a Catholic background. The question is whether this will provide sufficient guidance in the longer term. By sticking to the current strict requirements or even making these requirements stricter, as a number of speakers have suggested in their comments, we may be maintaining the dual order on paper. In practice, however, this will be undermined by new forms of informal cooperation schools. In my time as Secretary of State, I have seen a number of very nice forms of cooperation. Take for example the Interplay in Wolphaartsdijk. I have seen that parents, teachers and school leaders work together in a very honest and creative way to find solutions to shape and energy both public and special education at school. In last Wednesday's debate, I heard Chamberwide, from Mr Bishop and Mr Rog to Mrs Ypma and Mrs Straus, that there was a great deal of appreciation for the practical solutions that were put forward. You see over and over again that the practice is stronger than the doctrine. The bill we are discussing today will bring practice and the law closer together again. It will be easier to form a school of cooperation. The articles of association then lay down that both public and special education is provided at the school. This gives parents, teachers and pupils more certainty about the design of education at a school, even in the long term, for the future. I would like to discuss three major issues and take up the questions raised by the Members of Parliament. First of all, it is a question of why the cooperation school can also be regarded as an exception in the present legislative proposal. The second major theme is the question of how the design of a cooperation school looks like when it is hung under a public administration. That is a new possibility that this law offers. The third theme concerns the more practical aspects of the school of cooperation. Several questions have been asked about this. Finally, I would like to address a number of other questions and the amendments that have been tabled. Several MPs have asked questions about the cooperation school as an exception. Actually, you can see that these questions are very different. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van Dijk prefer the collaboration school to be a regular third variant next to special and public. However, there are two very specific conditions attached to the school of cooperation in the context of constitutional change. The first condition is that a cooperation school cannot be founded. There must always be a merger between an existing public school and an existing special school. The second condition is that the school of cooperation may exceptionally be established if the continuity of public or special education is at stake. With this proposal, I do not deviate from the framework set out in the Constitution and its treatment. Both Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins fear that the school of cooperation with this bill will no longer be an exception; that is more the opposite. They think that the continuity criterion is being stretched too much and point out that if you start using this new standard, a third of schools would be theoretically eligible for it. I would like to point out to them that 16% of schools already meet the existing legal criterion. Nevertheless, no new school of cooperation has been established since the introduction of the Law on Cooperation Schools. In practice it appears that schools do not simply merge and that, if they are already merged, the merger with a school within their own administration is the most obvious. I therefore do not think that Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins' fears are justified. I certainly do not agree with them that this continuity criterion violates the Constitution. In my view, the criterion is only adapted to practice to ensure that there is some room. Otherwise, the school of cooperation, as it has always been in recent years, is more of a theoretical option on paper but the rules are too tight in practice to make use of the legal possibilities. Mr Bruins pointed out that the Council of State also criticised the proposed continuity criterion. This criticism has also been a reason for me to take a critical look at the continuity criterion and to amend it. The simple formula that we had initially used, namely the lifting standard with a top-up of 60, we have adapted and replaced it with a slightly more complicated formula, one might say. Mr Van Meenen spoke about this. Then I think this should sound like music to him as a mathematician. What that formula is essentially doing is assuming a declining margin on top of the lifting standard, so that where that lifting standard is low, those 60 are on top of it, but as the lifting standard increases, that additional margin is getting smaller and smaller. I think that we are responding to the criticism of the Council of State. This makes it easier to form a school of cooperation particularly in sparsely populated areas with a low standard of elimination, in municipalities where the drop in apprenticeships is generally the highest in practice. At present, the requirement for one of the schools concerned to fall below the lifting standard within six years is, however, often very unreliable in the case of a low lifting standard. These lifting standards are often so low that schools actually decide whether or not they want to go ahead; that is not in line with practice. In the big cities, I'm making it a little more difficult than I am at the moment to form a cooperation school. After all, a school must already be below the lifting standard in order to be able to form a school of cooperation. In practice, management tends to apply a lower limit of 80 or 100 pupils before starting a school merger, because they believe that the quality and organizational capacity of the school will be too much under pressure if the school becomes even smaller. You have to imagine: 80 to 100 students are talking about four combination classes. Those are already relatively small classes. If it gets any smaller, you'll run into the situation where the school says that we may not have reached the lifting standard yet, but we actually think it's too small to provide good quality education there. By the way, no school is forced to form a cooperation school. It is always a matter of choosing both schools for this variant. Mrs Straus asked whether schools could cope with the new continuity criterion. I think so. For example, almost all 83 mergers that have occurred since 2006 between public and special schools which have resulted in informal cooperation schools would meet the criterion if applied now. In short, the continuity criterion for both primary and secondary education was sought on the one hand in connection with existing practice and, on the other hand, a condition which is sufficiently restrictive and does justice to the Constitution. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Van Dijk, who wishes to delete the continuity criterion, and the requirement that the school should be paid for for six years. I would also advise against the amendments to parts Nos. 17 and 18 by Mr Bruins, who wants to set the continuity criterion in primary education at 60 pupils and maintain the existing criterion in the text. The continuity criterion for primary education, as proposed by Mr Bruins in his amendment, is more stringent than the current criterion and, in my view, would mean a decline rather than progress. Mr Rog and Mr Van Dijk asked questions about the abolition of the merger test in a merger into a cooperation school. They believe that this will make the merger into a cooperation school easier than a regular merger and are afraid that it will create an uneven playing field. With this amendment, I have tried to eliminate unnecessary red tape. In the case of a merger into a cooperation school, it is already being examined whether the continuity of one of the schools is at stake and therefore a merger is necessary in order to survive. A threat to continuity is, in the light of the merger test as we know it now, also a justification. This need not therefore be repeated in the context of the merger test, because then there is a double test on the same criterion. I come to the second major theme: the cooperation school under a public administration. In the current situation, a school of cooperation can only be maintained by a foundation for special education or cooperation management. According to Mr Rog, this must remain the same. Mr Bruins and Mr Beertema have also asked questions, as we want to make it possible for a public education foundation to maintain a school of cooperation. The members wonder how a government foundation can manage and maintain one preferred nomination without affecting the neutrality of the government. Mr Bruins found it constitutionally dubious that the philosophical education was given under the authority of the neutral government, including the administrative appointments and supervision by the city council. The municipality and the supervisory legal person, the variant that the law now knows, currently appoints the board members of the foundation who maintain a cooperation school. If that administration also has other special schools, the municipality also has an influence on the other special schools, because it is regulated at the administrative level. I agree with Mr Bruins that this currently has an improper influence on the special schools. That is precisely why this bill regulates the implementation of the special identity and public character of the school of cooperation at school level and no longer at administrative level. That's exactly what we're doing to get out of that trap. It is therefore no longer the administration, but the community of parents and teachers at the school itself who can and must shape the public character and the special identity together. As a result, public administrations will have an equivalent position to special administrations and co-operation boards. I have heard several Members of Parliament say how pleased they are with the practical implementation that is currently being given to them at the informal cooperation schools. I can tell the Chamber that about a quarter of those schools are already under public administration at the moment. In practice, therefore, it will not be a problem for a public administration to maintain a school of cooperation. Mr Rog has in his part No. 8 tabled an amendment aimed at ensuring that the school of cooperation cannot be maintained by a public administration or a cooperation board. However, a cooperation board can already maintain a school of cooperation. Even before the constitutional change, it has already been argued that the co-operation board was actually the appropriate form of governance for maintaining the school of cooperation. There are therefore many legal requirements for foundations that are necessary to maintain cooperation management by both public and special authorities. This shows where that amendment is wringing and why I do not recommend it. I'm coming to the third block. This concerns the more practical aspects of the school of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u3	Mr Rog has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u4	I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State could comment a little more on the terribly negative opinion of the Council of State. It's a five; we don't see that often. Back in the day, that was some kind of show-stopper for the government to pass a bill to the Chamber. The Nederlandse Vereniging voor Onderwijsrecht and the Education Council, in fact all those authoritative institutions say that this is contrary to the Constitution. Secretary of State, they say, a cooperation board can, but not under public administration. Would the Secretary of State perhaps like to say a few words about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u5	That's what I want to do. The same Constitution is based on the equivalence of special and public education. Then it is also a strange construct to make it possible for cooperation schools to be subject to special governance, but not to be subject to public administration. In his amendment, Mr Rog even proposes that they should not be included in a co-operation board, which was the preferred variant to which they should be subject, even if we look at the legal history. In addition, we depend on the level at which we want to shape the double character. We do this not at the level of government, but at the level of the school. This does not, in fact, mean interference, even at the level of the administration. I think that makes the problem less serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u6	But in doing so, as all these institutions say, the Secretary of State does not first of all do justice to the independent power of the government to ensure that there is sufficient public education. There will be some kind of hybrid form, in which the government becomes responsible for philosophical education. Is it not then a solution to allow the public authorities to be responsible for the public part, but not to be responsible for the organisation of special education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u7	I think this is a bit of an accident. That is what we see in practice. There are now informal cooperation schools which are in fact public schools. That is precisely where we look very carefully at the level of the school, often in separate committees, at how the special and public character can be combined in a very good way. I shall look a little more closely at the construction of the identity committee. Perhaps at such informal cooperation schools there is more and more conscious talk about identity than at many other schools. The jumping point is, of course, how this legislative change will work out in practice. Several Members of Parliament have asked questions about the relationship between public and special education in practice and about the identity committee, to which I referred in my reply to Mr Rog. A number of amendments have also been tabled on this subject. The statutory anchored identity committee is not only the heart but also the conscience of the school of cooperation, one might say. The identity committee advises the board on matters relating to the public character and the special identity. In addition, the composition of the identity committee provides for an equal distribution between public and special education. The identity committee is not an idea that was conceived in the tower of the ministry of OCW. It is precisely a figure that we have derived from practice. Informal cooperation schools almost all organise a committee or body that advises the board in this way. We have been informed that this model works in many places in practice. The demands made by the bill to the administrative establishment have been limited as much as possible to what is necessary to firmly anchor the identity committee. I leave it to those involved to fill in the details of the administrative establishment. The requirements are no more stringent than the requirements of the current law. Now there is a mandatory supervisory legal person. We're making a switch to this identity committee. In my view, there is no additional administrative burden, as Mr Rog argues. I have received three amendments concerning the Committee on Identity. Mr Rog proposes in the amendment to item No. 9 to delete the identity committee as a whole, but he is not in any way opposed to it. I reject this amendment precisely because I believe that such an identity committee is necessary to ensure the equivalence of public and special education. Mr Van Dijk proposes in the amendment to item No. 15 in the event of a dispute between the identity committee and the competent authority. I also advise against this amendment. It runs counter to the equivalence of public and special education at the cooperation school. We always have to keep the balance. The legislative proposal provides for a mandatory dispute settlement if the identity committee and the competent authority do not come out together. The third amendment in this block is that in part No. 14 by Mr Bishop. The amendment will ensure that the public part of the Committee on Identity will soon have a dominant influence when it comes to public affairs and the special part when it comes to special matters. I also advise against this amendment, because I think it is very difficult in practice to make that distinction. It is precisely the art of having the discussion in the identity committee between the public and the special part and coming out together. Take the question of how you deal with Christmas or Easter celebrations at school. For this you want a solution that meets the feelings of the parents who, so to speak, come from the special part or at least attach to the special identity, but which is also acceptable and passable to the parents who attach to the public part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u8	I have an enlightening question for the Secretary of State. He says the identity committee should just get out. Suppose they say we come out and each one chooses to do it differently in one part of the school than in the other part of the school. Is that to come out together or is it really necessary to arrive at a clear conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u9	We see a great variety in practice. Sometimes something is celebrated together, doing justice to the feelings of both parts and sometimes something is celebrated in two different places in the school. I'm okay with that. In unique situations where such a cooperation school in a village is the only way to maintain a powerful school that unites both blood groups, let us not prescribe precisely from The Hague whether it should always be together. Let them discuss it together to find a good form for that. That can be done together, but that can also be done with two separate celebrations or two separate weekly openings, which I sometimes encounter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u10	That puzzled me a little bit with Mr Bishop's amendment. Does the Secretary of State say that one may also decide jointly that each, as it were, goes his way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u11	That could be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u12	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u13	I see the parties concerned very much in a position, if they need it, to give an answer as proposed by Mr Bishop. We are not imposing this on you either. We leave much room for the precise suspension and design of the statutory rules of that identity committee. I don't recommend the amendment. There has been extensive discussion of the acceptance obligation. The cooperation school is generally accessible. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. The current provisions on the accessibility of the school of cooperation have literally been incorporated into the legislative proposal. Mr Bruins wondered whether this general accessibility was not contrary to the Constitution. I would point out to him this fact that it is already the case in the existing legislation. The legislator has thus already stated in the past that this does not appear to be contrary to the Constitution. At least that's how I see it. This doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u14	Just so we're clear. Mr Bishop also asked a question about last week. Is it true that with this bill the school becomes generally accessible to all pupils at every part of that school, if the Secretary of State understands what I mean, so also the special part? Is it true that there simply cannot be any access requirements and that the answer to Mr Bishop's question must therefore be negative? After all, he wanted to know whether the particular part of the school could still impose admission conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u15	No. The school is generally accessible. Mr Van Dijk has tabled an amendment, under item No. 13, which in my view doesn't change so much materially. I believe he is turning 'pupils' into 'children', but it is actually a kind of repetition of the general accessibility that I believe is already well secured in the law. I can therefore leave that amendment to the House's discretion. A cooperation school is one school, so it's not a shared school. The legislator has already chosen, in a previous treatment, to allow the school of cooperation to be generally accessible, and I would like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u16	That sounds really nice. Then all I can do is call on the Secretary of State to make work of making all those other schools generally accessible in the last few months that remain to him. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u17	That is another very interesting debate. We have already discussed this in detail in the budget. Maybe I'm a little bit different from Mr Van Dijk. A number of questions have been asked about the rights of staff. Mr Van Dijk asked me to respond to a number of cases. What is it again, Van Meenen? Casus? Casi? Casuses? Let's just stick to cases. The first is about an openly homosexual teacher applying to a cooperation school whose Christian part does not accept his or her orientation. Then what do we do, Mr Van Dijk wondered. My answer to that is actually quite simple: then we do the same as when this teacher applies to a Protestant-Christian school for special education. No school, whether it is a special, public or cooperative school, should make a distinction on the basis of homosexuality. If it does, a corridor to the judge is, as far as I'm concerned, the appropriate route. His second question was about the possibility of a discussion about the design of Christmas celebrations, for example. What if the identity committee wants a non-religious peace party and the board wants to emphasize the Christian background, for example, if it is a school of cooperation that is under a Protestant-Christian government? In the event of such a dispute between the Board and the Identity Committee, there is the possibility to address the dispute settlement agent identified in the Statutes. One of the few formal requirements that we have incorporated into the law is that good agreements should always be made on what to do in resolving such disputes. That is what this bill provides for. In practice, however, these solutions are often very good when, for example, there are differences of opinion on the design and organisation of two different parties, as I said in Mrs Straus's direction. Mr Van Dijk's next case concerns the question of whether a teacher from public education can be required to pay more attention to religion if the administration so wishes. In the merger agreements are made for the preservation of both the special identity and the public character. The position of the teacher is also discussed. This point has so much to do with identity that the Committee on Identity will always be involved. At least that's the subject of conversation. Attention to religion can be seen in two ways. Of course, every teacher should be able to teach in the core goal spiritual currents. We also discussed this in detail during the examination of the initiative proposal, which was adopted, and I would like to congratulate those who tabled it on behalf of the cabinet. Things like shaping day openings from a religious background go one step further. That may well be the issue here, but with good agreements, I do not think that this will cause any problems in practice. In this case, Mr Bruins' question on the possibility of appointing staff on the basis of the basis of the special part of the school follows. The General Law on Equal Treatment provides that a special education institution may select staff to the extent necessary for the achievement of the basis. A public administration which maintains a school of cooperation can also be qualified as such as regards special education at the school of cooperation. Where necessary for the implementation of the foundation of the school of cooperation, such a board may take this into account. Finally, Mr Van Dijk asked to what extent the transfer of staff from a public administration to a special administration or vice versa could lead to problems of employment law in the establishment of a school of cooperation. In doing so, he referred, I believe, to storage, transition fees, super-statutory regulations and to the fact that a teacher loses his appointment when he moves from public to special. In general, the differences are no different than when a public and special school merges, i.e. without becoming a cooperation school. We can see that experience has already been gained in practice. That is also why this issue has not been specifically discussed with the trade unions. In practice, the following happens and this applies to all mergers in education. In a specific individual case of a concrete individual merger between two schools, the trade unions must be consulted on the implications for the staff of such a merger. In principle, there are no major differences between a public administration and a special administration in terms of employment conditions. In a material sense, the working conditions are largely the same. These are laid down by the social partners in the collective agreement. With the entry into force of the Law on Standardisation Law officials in the near future, the remaining differences will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u18	I'm just trying to imagine what that's going to look like in practice, for my understanding. Imagine: originally a cooperation school was a Catholic school and a public school. They're gonna start working together in a cooperation school. Well, then I guess I'm right that you can't speak of a Catholic part and a public part anymore, can you? The children who first attended Catholic school and the children who first attended public school come together in the classroom. You can imagine the teachers' corps being merged. Some teachers have a Catholic identity and some teachers have a public identity, whatever that means. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, a school of cooperation may still select teachers for the special part of their identity. Does that mean, in practice, that a school of cooperation could say: we are aiming for a school of teachers, half of whom are of a public nature, but we are also looking for a Catholic teacher, because we have a little less of that, and we would like to maintain the balance? Could that be a practical interpretation of a cooperation school?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u19	Let me be brief: the answer is yes. I come to the role of the city council. Mrs Straus asked a number of questions about the annual report to be given to the city council. As indicated above, the obligation to report annually to the city council to the board of the cooperation school is in order to maintain the public character. That makes sense, because the competent authority is ultimately the body that we can hold responsible for this and that should also be accountable for it. That is one of the reasons why the report obligation has not been deposited with the identity committee but with the board. However, it is obvious that the Committee on Identity will probably play a major role in drawing up the report, for example as regards how to combine these two blood groups in a good way. That at least legitimizes that this is well secured in education. It is up to the parties concerned to agree on this. They can also record those appointments. With this legislative proposal, we offer scope to regulate this more specifically by law, according to the wishes of such a new form of cooperation school. The annual report deals with the public nature of the school of cooperation. The city council is and will remain responsible for the essential features of public education. Think, for example, of general accessibility and philosophical neutrality. In order to ensure the public part, this is subject to an equal designation of staff. The municipality must also be able to control the finances. In this sense, the audit of the report does not differ substantially from the control already exercised by the city council in public schools and cooperation schools. I therefore assume that the city council is capable of doing this. It was asked if city council members had the knowledge to do so. It is always difficult to give an opinion on this, because it may differ from one case to another. In any case, it is possible and it is now happening in part in practice. The city council also has a means of exerting pressure on this issue. If the municipality considers that the public part is not sufficiently secured, it may eventually decide to withdraw that part from the cooperation school. That actually pulls out the tablecloth under the cooperation school. That is an additional reason for the board, which is responsible for monitoring the two identities, to do it in a very honest and good way. I still have a few questions and two amendments. I can assure Mrs Straus that the schools that may emerge in the light of the legislative proposal can also merge into a cooperation school, provided, of course, the conditions laid down in the legislative proposal are met. Formally, only the distinction between public education and special education remains. The law of the cooperation school sees in principle all combinations of public and special education. Also in the bill More space for new schools, which we are currently working on, we do not change the dual order. We only make it possible to increase the freedom of and the basis for new special schools by no longer linking them to the principle of philosophical direction. But, of course, all forms of public and special education are also possible in a cooperation school. To Mr Rog's question I can answer that a school of cooperation can indeed only be maintained by a foundation and not by an association. The reason for this is that within an association the general assembly of members is the highest body. The members of the association always make a decision. This is not in keeping with the prevailing public influence of the municipality on public education. The municipality can never, after all, have a dominant influence. For exactly the same reason, there is no form of association for the public school either. Therefore, that possibility was not created under the applicable law. Practice and consultation have not shown a specific need for this. Mrs Ypma has the amendment to item No. 16 to enable GVO/HVO to be given at a cooperation school. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Finally, the MPs of Meenen and Straus ask me to evaluate how the school of cooperation is doing after the law has been introduced. Mrs Straus has the amendment to item No. 10 in order to include an evaluation clause in the law. It would like to take account of regional differences. I believe that the bill offers room for this. Mr Van Meenen asked for monitoring and wanted to focus on whether the public character would not get in the way of disputes between the identity committee and the competent authority. It is good practice to monitor the impact of policies and legislation. I would therefore like to assure Mr Van Meenen that I will also take these consequences of the law and evaluate them. I therefore consider Mrs Straus's amendment to be in line with what we do more often. So I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. That brings me to the end of my speech. I hope I have been able to show the House the necessity and usefulness of this bill. I believe that the reality of law in The Hague can well be reconciled with the practice that has grown in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u20	I fully share the latter; it is a fine law. I still have a question about the continuity criterion, following Mr Van Dijk's amendment. If you were to abandon that criterion, would there be any longer talk that a school of cooperation is an exception? This is related to the Constitution. According to the Constitution, it should not be more than an exception. In the Netherlands, we do not have a review of the Constitution. We don't have a constitutional court. My interpretation of an exception is as follows. If it's less than half, I think it's an exception. The Secretary of State may not feel the same way. Would it not be very interesting to agree to Mr Van Dijk's amendment and to look at what happens then, even legally? Maybe then there will be an interpretation of what is and what is not an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u21	Mr Van Meenen is formally right that ultimately the Chamber decides whether anything is in breach of the Constitution. If the House finds in a large majority that a further retraction is possible, it is up to the Court to decide. However, I do not think it is right for the legal history and the treatment of previous proposals on the possibility of the school of cooperation. I see that I have the support of, among other things, the Council of State and the Education Council, which do indeed point out that the concept of the school of cooperation in our dual system must be a kind of exception born of necessity: so only if it is at its core the only possibility of keeping a school open and bringing these two forms of education together. They argue that it should not become a regular variant besides public and special education. That is why I think it is right to look for a little more enlargement, rather than the fairly strict standards that the law now has. The law was passed in 2011 and since then no cooperation school has actually been established. I think it's very reasonable what we're doing now. It's also consistent with practice. In this we see that informal cooperation schools all fit within these ranges, without opening the door so wide that any school can qualify for them. So I move along with Mr Van Meenen, but I think there is a very good balance. I see on the one hand the wish of Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Meenen and, on the other hand, the wish of another part of the Chamber. I think this is the golden middle ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u22	I understand it all, but this kind of desire to get into a cooperation school stems from practice in a particular municipality. We look at it very much from above and say: it should not be more than another part of the schools. It is of course a different color in the palette of special education. But you could also argue that a majority of this Chamber could simply decide to leave the continuity criterion for what it is and just leave the space to those municipalities, to those communities that want to come together to form such a form of education. Then let's see what happens. I assume that neither on the public side nor on the special side of education in the Netherlands is driven out of fear, so of "imagine that something can come that is also desired." No, the point is that all children in the Netherlands receive the best education. This form can be added to that. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to reconsider his assessment of Mr Van Dijk's amendment on the deletion of the continuity criterion. I believe my name is there by now. If that is not the case, I would like to add my name to it, but at least I am talking about the amendment on the deletion of the continuity criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u23	For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out to Mr Van Meenen that, of course, the Chamber is free to vote as it wishes, regardless of the opinion of the Secretary of State. That's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u24	That is a very good addition, Mr President. It is good that you point this out to the Chamber, but we also know how it will work in some of the parties here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u25	I note that Mr Van Meenen is a little more radical and that I am a little more conservative; so be it. I am also trying to do justice to the different feelings in this Chamber and to the feelings that some of the government's key advisors have regarding how this bill fits into the legal history and the history of the school of cooperation. After the treatment in your room, we'll have another treatment in the room across the street. I know that this Chamber also attaches great importance to these constitutional matters. I would think it would be very unwise, but that is an opinion to the House to go along with Mr Van Meenen's and Mr Van Dijk's amendments now, because there might well be a lot of discussion on the other side. That is quite apart from the fact that I will no longer find it in balance. I see this as an additional risk in this whole legislative process, whereas this bill is just so incredibly fulfilling an urgent wish from practice. I would find it a shame if it met with this kind of objection. I prefer that this bill gets through as quickly as possible, because it offers a lot of relief in the rest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u26	As Christmas approaches, I have to think very much about a statement by the Lord Jesus, who has sometimes said that people are not there for the rules, but the rules are there for the people. I'll paraphrase him. I have to think very much about that in this debate, because the Secretary of State actually says: I understand the amendment in part No. That is what we are talking about; the amendment on the deletion of the rules to establish a school of cooperation is perhaps sympathetic, but yes, historically we have changed our education. The system is different, which is why the Secretary of State doesn't feel like it. Should I understand him in such a way that he says, "I'm not really against it, but it doesn't seem so good right now?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u27	As a reformed youngster it always does me good to hear a paraphrasing from the Bible. I'm just wondering where this is exactly. Let me not venture to do so, because with certain other parties in this house I will go on slippery ice. There is also, in principle, something to be said for. The idea of the cooperation school is that it was born out of necessity, because two schools have no right to exist and therefore have to continue together. You can also reverse the reasoning: if the existence of two schools is not threatened, you can ask yourself what then is the need to combine. Mr Van Dijk is always in favour of small scale and security, but here I hear him making a plea for scaling up. I think that is an interesting addition to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u28	This is a good example of an opportunity argument. The Secretary of State brought this argument to the fore, because he had actually talked himself into it. It is fine to enter into this discussion about scaling up, but the right question was why, as a government or as a political one, we would be both doing well separately and one of which is religious or special and the other public, would like to go on together because they can get along well and because they see a number of advantages in it. Then why would we have to stand in the way of those schools? That's a question ahead of you. I note that the Secretary of State does not really have any arguments for this, except that it has been agreed. I would say: Members of the House of Representatives, think, regardless of the basis of your party; then we will make education a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u29	I don't really hear a question. It was more of a exclamation from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u30	For the Acts, I would like to note that Mr Van Dijk paraphrased Marcus 2, verse 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u31	So it wasn't quoted, it was paraphrased. The Secretary of State had already come to the end of the first-term reply. I'll take a look at the members of the Chamber. Is there still a need for a second term? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u32	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop of the SGP could not be present. He asked me to speak on his behalf. I will. I shall begin with a question that has been raised in the first term. The Secretary of State has once again indicated that the school of cooperation is generally accessible. That is not strange either, because students should be allowed to enter such a public cooperation school. At the same time, however, it seems to us that the possibility of exclusive special education within the cooperation school remains. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the view on the accessibility of the cooperation school has not changed compared to the current law? In the first term, I made a point in particular about the cooperation school under public administration and the identity committee. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has discussed a number of constitutional consequences of the radical proposals in the last little debate with the SP. As far as the public administration and the identity committee are concerned, I do not understand the choices made by the cabinet. I think that we could really take a step towards cooperation schools without these far-reaching proposals, which, in my group's view, and also those of the SGP, run counter to the Constitution. It's widely shared. I regret that step. I take one more point: the unequal playing field compared to other mergers. I don't understand why the cooperation school should be in a privileged position. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the continuity criterion de facto ensures that a merger between a public and a special school has to meet fewer conditions than a regular school merger;]] [[also considering that in primary and secondary education the fusion test as it has now been designed is perceived as an obstacle to merging;]] [[calls on the Government to create a level playing field for mergers leading to cooperation schools and regular school mergers by abolishing the merger test in both situations if the criteria set out in the continuity criterion are met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34512-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u33	I think I should make it clear that I should advise my group not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u34	Mr. Chairman. In order not to disturb the religious nature of this debate, I start with a Bible text: "Research everything, preserve the good." The Apostle Paul wrote that to the Thessalonians. That is what we have done in this debate. We've looked into everything and we want to preserve the good. I think that the Secretary of State and all Members of Parliament have a genuine intention of preserving the good, but perhaps we have differences of opinion on how. I am glad to hear that half of the teachers of the original special identity can still ask for that identity in the selection procedure. It's good to establish that. I also note that 16% of schools could have become cooperation schools by now. However, this has not really led to cooperation schools. The question is, what's gonna happen if you make that a third? I am actually concerned about the next bill, namely the bill abolishing the last school of a direction. Then suddenly there is a great deal of reason to become a school of cooperation, because otherwise you can be threatened with abolition. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in some municipalities the standard of abolition in primary education is 194 pupils;]] [[Whereas, in both sparsely populated and densely populated areas, high quality schools are threatened with elimination by relatively high standards of elimination;]] [[calls on the Government to pass on scenarios for lowering the removal standards for sparsely populated and densely populated areas including the financial consequences and to report to the Chamber before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that municipal boundaries do not affect the quality of schools;]] [[Whereas, in particular, in shrinking areas, high quality schools are threatened with elimination by relatively high standards of elimination;]] [[noting that in the case of the merger of municipal schools there is an increase in the abolition standard;]] [[calls on the government, in the case of merger of municipalities, to leave the original standards of abolition intact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34512-20]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34512-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u35	The Christian Union is looking for the future for education in lower foundation standards, lower lifting standards and a different way of financing. This will put the concepts of direction and cooperation schools in a completely different light. I hope to find a good future for our education together with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u36	Mr. Chairman. In the first term I talked about Miss Janneke, who teaches in a small village as we have so many in the Netherlands. She would like the public school and the Christian school to work together more; together under one roof make sure that all children are welcome at that one village school. That gave me inspiration for my 2014 initiative proposal. I am extremely pleased that the Secretary of State has now worked that out in the legislative proposal before us. This will meet the wishes of parents as well as the practice. In fact, we see that shrinking doesn't give us any more time to delay. Sometimes we in The Hague are changing the past, while education itself is already decorating the future. Especially in village centres, where one does not want to compete, a cooperation school is a solution. A strong school is important for children, the quality of education, accessibility and freedom of choice. That is why we will give our wholehearted support to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u37	Mr. Chairman. As I said, the SP is in favour of the cooperation school. We see this as a good step towards more generally accessible schools. I would like to draw the House's attention to my amendments. I wonder whether the Secretary of State has already dealt with them or is doing so in the second term. In the amendment to item No. 15 states that public character prevails in a dispute. With the amendment in part No. 13 to make the school of cooperation generally accessible. In the amendment, which has been referred to many times in the meantime, to item No. 11 the restrictive criteria of the cooperation school are deleted. I am counting on the support of all the parties who, from the very basis of their party, really cannot avoid it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u38	I would point out that the Secretary of State has provided an opinion on all the amendments. The amendment in part No. 15 has been dissuaded. The amendment in part No. 13 is Judgment Room. The amendment in part No. 11 has also been dissuaded. I note that the other spokesmen have waived their second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u39	I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u40	Mr. Chairman. There is one question left, and there are three motions. Mr Rog asked to confirm that this law does not change the principle of general access to schools in relation to the current situation. That's right. Whether or not the Jasper van Dijk amendment will be adopted will not change anything material. Religious education is provided within each cooperation school. That's the idea of a cooperation school. I don't think that's up for discussion. I'll be on the three motions. The first motion is about the merger test. I find it very difficult to see exactly what the consequences and extent of this motion are. Maybe I can ask the petitioners to hold the motion. In the new year we have a general discussion on the merger test. Perhaps we can talk a little more in detail about this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u41	I can only say to the Secretary of State that the idea is that there will be a level playing field between cooperation schools and ordinary schools that want to merge, but I agree with the Secretary of State's suggestion. So I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u42	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (34512), No. 19). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u43	Then I come to the Bruins motion in part No. 20. Mr Bruins is asking for a number of scenarios to be passed on. In light of the discussion we're going to have later, I think that's a sensible exercise. So I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. In the Bruins motion in part No. 21 is requested to always leave the original standards of abolition intact in the case of mergers of municipalities. I do not recommend this motion because Mr Bruins assumes that this low level will continue forever. I don't think that's wise. There is already the possibility in the law of dividing the core area, the more densely populated urban area within the municipal area, which could also be subject to a correspondingly higher lifting standard, and the rural area. This also requires periodic updating and re-evaluation. That is a little more mobile than the proposal put forward by Mr Bruins in his motion. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-35.u44	The motions and amendments tabled to this bill will be voted on next Thursday. I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. At 6:45 p.m., we will continue the debate on the results of the European Summit on 15 and 16 December.
