ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the Utrecht alFirah mosque hit the news negative for the umpteenth time. For the PVV that was no surprise, for the looking away part of the nation no doubt. This time we are talking about former students who, because of expected reprisals from the Islamic corner, do not dare to use their name in the newspaper. Does the Minister understand, the first question, that these people want to remain anonymous because otherwise they have to fear the violent Islamic consequences of knocking them out of the school? Earlier this mosque also came into discord. It has received money from a charity from the Middle East that is on the penalty list in America. In the past, several suspicious transactions have been reported from abroad to this mosque. There was a court case because of a rent debt of €214,000, which, by the way, is almost met through vague collection actions. There are several signals and reports about countering integration and about sowing divisions in Utrecht; actually the same things about which there is news. Then we go to Suhayb Salam, the leader of the alFirah mosque in Utrecht. He teaches people that mental health care in the Netherlands only works on symptom control and that real healing comes when you practice Islam correctly. He chases women into the nikab. He sees Muslims as the first and greatest victims of the acts of terror in Paris and Nice and states that the best response to these acts is to convert people to Islam. The second question: has the Minister taken any concrete action against this mosque? We've been asking a lot of questions over the past few years. We already stood there in 2015, one and a half years ago, even with a sign about hate images. Has the minister ever done anything against this mosque? It's pretty obvious now that something's wrong. Or is it just talking, admitting, getting a vague commitment, watching or talking? We'll find out from the Minister. The third question: has the Minister already spoken with the Utrecht VVD mayor Van Zanen, in the meantime, to do something together against this mosque? Finally, for the first round: does the Minister share the view of the Freedom Party that this imam and his mosque undermine our rule of law and are a threat to security? Is the Minister therefore prepared to close this mosque once and for all, close doors, for example on the basis of the danger to public order, and thus set an example to all other mosques in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. The message that the alFirah would call upon students not to report criminal behavior of Muslims is very worrying and utterly reprehensible. It is a completely wrong message to children to teach them that the rule of law has two tastes. Children must be raised in such a way that they do report criminal offences. We know that this is an obligation for some offences, but in education it should apply to all offences. Every citizen in the Netherlands must therefore be expected to report if he or she is aware of criminal behaviour. What's happening about this mosque? There's research going on into financial malpractice. Mr De Graaf also referred to this. During that investigation, there is nothing else we can say about this, but it is well known. Research has also been carried out into the educational environment for pupils. Whatever that research may be, it seems to me that the conclusion for parents must be clear: get your children out of there. If children are taught not to participate in the rule of law and not to report criminal offences, you as parents take the risk that your children will grow up in a way that threatens their future in the Netherlands. My advice to the parents, from father to father, would be to get your children out of there. How's it going now? There's contact with the mayor of Utrecht. He's had enough, too. This afternoon he talks with alFirah to ask for clarification about this information. Then we will discuss what we need to do. When there are sufficient facts available to comply with 2:20 BW, a measure can be taken as Mr De Graaf meant. At the moment, the mayor of Utrecht is at the ball. We very much support him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	This is exactly what we were afraid of. We know what's going on at this mosque, and yet again, it's a serious conversation. But the Netherlands has completed strong discussions with these kinds of agencies. The Minister is also taking part in these tough talks. That's what he calls an "interreligious dialogue," for example in the Knight's Room. He talks with a lot of mosques. If there is a banner hanging from a mosque somewhere, there is immediately talk of a terrorist act and the minister is the first to apologize. He takes off his slippers and he goes in there in Leiden on his socks. Bending over and over again, bending over and over again! But what the Netherlands needs is this. The minister already mentioned 2:20 BW. If there are so many facts that it can simply enter into force and if, on the basis of public order, we have to close this 'haathut', so to speak, because it is a spatter in this society, then action must be taken. Then you shouldn't go back to supporting a mayor who has a "strong conversation" and then consults? That is exactly what the Dutch electorate is so tired of, including this cabinet. Talking to those who undermine our rule of law over and over again with those who distort public order in this way and put people's security at risk. That is the fatigue of the Dutch population, which has been muzzled by this minister. This minister does nothing about it, he doesn't want to take any concrete action against these kinds of abuses and even against Islamic abuses in general in the Netherlands. Why doesn't this minister understand? Why isn't he taking action? He has the chance now: the cameras are on it. Why doesn't he just say: I will make sure that this mosque is closed and serves as an example for the rest of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr De Graaf chooses to mix up all kinds of things. It's okay. I do make a distinction between the many in our country who contribute and those who do not. What Mr De Graaf always chooses to throw all Muslims together, this cabinet does not participate. What's going on here can't be tolerated. It's not right. There's a criminal investigation into financial malpractice. The mayor's gonna get a story on these statements. It is not good for children to have this kind of delusion in any form of informal education. I'd tell parents to get your kids out of there right now. And no, the last word has not yet been said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	You have run out of speaking time, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u7	I could perhaps use my follow-up question, which we as a group also have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u8	One quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u9	It is not so much a question as a comment on what we have just discussed. So we have to conclude that it remains in consultation and ultimately bows to Islam. That is a message that must be very clear in the Dutch living rooms. If this minister stays minister any longer, that will never change and the Netherlands will turn into a very unpleasant Islamic country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr De Graaf deliberately chooses to communicate about this in his own way. I do not think that does justice to the many people in our country who are trying to make it work. I think Mr De Graaf himself knows that. No, we do not accept violations of the rule of law. There's a criminal investigation into financial malpractice. We recently announced a law to prevent unwanted funding. We have considerably strengthened the legislation against unwanted behaviour in the Netherlands. All those rules of the game that make us distinguish between people who screw up and those who do well are the same rules that protect both Mr De Graaf and me. That's what the Cabinet holds on to. It is a matter of principle. That does not mean that we will ever accept that children will be taught this kind of thing in informal education. Parents have to get their kids out of there. The last word has not yet been said. After more information has been obtained, we can see what else we can do, but we will not accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u11	I believe the Minister's good intentions, I also believe he means what he says, and yet I can only conclude that in recent years Islamists have been given plenty of space. Those are people who really have a political goal, namely the isolation of children, discrimination and the exclusion of people who are otherwise thinking and living. We asked questions about this a number of years ago. The last case is now that there are whistleblowers. What has the Minister himself done? Is the Minister prepared to involve those whistleblowers in the investigation, to protect whistleblowers and their families and to ensure that people in the environment who are also under pressure to join this type of organisation are protected from these influences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u12	People need to be free to make their own choices. So people who are being put under pressure to join these kinds of groups, you hear it in Amsterdam too, you have to experience the protection of the rule of law. We have tightened the rules in recent years. Think of the supervision of the youth residences, where children were in danger of being raised separately from the Dutch rule of law. That has changed and there is now supervision. I don't think that's the last word. It is necessary to gain more control over this type of informal education. AlFirah plays a particularly bad role in this whole. It's not the first time we've talked about that. There is not for nothing research going on, both into the educational environment and about possible financial malpractices by alFirah. The rule of law will not allow this to happen. That's an important message. Every child who grows up here deserves a good future, deserves not to be poisoned by people with sick ideas and deserves not to be told about crime. If you see crime, you're gonna have to report it to protect all of us. Yes, the cabinet has taken steps in this. Those are very strong steps, but they are necessary to protect us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u13	Your second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u14	No, my questions haven't been answered. I would still like an answer to my question. It is not a second supplementary question. I asked if the Minister would be willing to involve the whistleblowers in the investigation and protect the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yes, the victims should be protected, but the criminal investigation is in the portfolio of my colleague from Security and Justice. This is about whether or not to report criminal offences and the protection of witnesses. That is the responsibility of Minister Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u16	Why does the Salafist organization ask AlFirah to ask children not to report crime? The reason is that Salafist organisations reject our democracy and the rule of law. They are organized in one of the poorest districts of Utrecht, Overvecht, a multicultural district. There are several districts in the Netherlands where these Salafist organizations are organized. How dangerous does the Minister consider the influence of such organizations in such a neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u17	I think it's a very negative influence. I think it is a very negative message that will not help these children at all. Children benefit from full benefit from the freedoms in the Netherlands and the rule of law. Children should be brought up to know that you have to abide by the law and that if you run into people who don't comply with it, you report it to the police. That's the message children deserve. That means the influence of alFirah here is negative. That is why I say to parents: take your children away immediately, it is not good for their future in the Netherlands if they receive education there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u18	Your second supplementary question, but then you get into a fight with your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u19	I don't want that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u20	That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u21	How far should it go, for example, to apply 2:20 BW, to which the Minister himself refers? Children are raised with intolerance. For example, as the research of the Verwey-Jonker Institute shows, children are told that Christian holidays are haram. How far must it go not to lose these children to these organizations, to the Salafism, which does not relate to our Dutch society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-2.u22	It is up to the Public Prosecutor to assess when it has sufficient facts in its hands to make use of the legal possibility to prohibit an organisation. That article in our code allows the Public Prosecutor to ask the judge for a ban. This has been applied to the Association Martijn and it is being considered in connection with the motorcycle gangs. The Public Prosecutor's Office has indicated that that article can be used in itself, even if it wants to tackle other organisations that undermine the rule of law. Of course, there is a need for evidence and facts that point to this.
