ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the second part of the government's first term. An extensive debate took place on Wednesday 29 June. At that time, the Minister was able to answer all the questions in the first place, but because a number of other legislative proposals had to be dealt with that day, the first deadline then stopped. We now come to the amendments. The Minister has already received 32 amendments. A few more have come in. So, at the end of the day, we're gonna suspend for a while, so that the Minister can look at those amendments before he gives an opinion on them. We agreed that the spokesmen would only ask brief questions about their own amendments. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs here. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. As you said, this is the continuation of my first term. I will only deal with the amendments. These are two legislative proposals which are dealt with at the same time. The Chamber has worked hard on these legislative proposals. I am very impressed, because there have been no less than 66 amendments, 37 of which remain, of which I have not yet been able to read five. I've never seen it like this in 22 years. It's great what the Chamber has done here. I will try to respond to that properly. In order to surprise the Chamber, perhaps I can say already that I leave the judgment on nine amendments to the Chamber. I think that's an unexpected spoil for the Chamber. Let me start right away. With her amendment to part No. 8 (34348) Mrs van Tongeren aims to establish that landowners are entitled to compensation for the use of their territory when installations are installed on it. This is already being done in the private sector. As a general rule, user fees are regulated between a mining undertaking and a landowner. On the one hand, the amendment is superfluous in terms of practice; on the other hand, there is no objection to the provision of a legal basis for compensation for the use of territory, which makes sense. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. I'm going straight on this right way. Mrs Dik-Faber, in her amendment to item No. 15 (34348) it considers that the word "serious" in relation to the term "damage" should not be used. She wants to delete the word "serious." In the event of damage, I can only withhold an application for a search or extraction permit or approval of a extraction plan in practice if the area is not considered suitable for the application of the said activity in view of the nature of the expected damage. The mere fact that there may be a crack in a home, for example in gas extraction, will not soon lead to such a judgment. However, if, as a result of this intended extraction, the soil movement is such that there is likely to be more damage in the area, this will be a reason to impose restrictions or rules on the consent decision or not to agree to the intended extraction. Leaving the word "serious" linked to the term "damage" will not in practice lead to a different assessment of whether or not an area is suitable for mining. I therefore have no major objection to deleting the word'serious' and leaving the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	Perhaps it would be easier for those who read and listen in when you mention the number of the amendment at the beginning of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	The first amendment concerned the Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 8 (34348) and the second amendment concerned the amended Dik-Faber amendment in part No. 15 (34348). The amended Van Tongeren and others amendment. in piece No. 18 (34348) was tabled to replace the original amendment to item No. 11 (34348). In doing so, the authors re-introduce an element of an amendment which has been adopted previously and which has not been included in my legislative proposal as a result of the information given to the Council of State which I asked for. These are municipalities and water boards which should also be given advisory rights in the case of search and extraction permits. When applying for an investigative licence, it is often not clear which area it is concerned with. When it comes to a large area, which includes several municipalities and several waterboards, the province is best able to make an integrated regional assessment of the area at that very early stage of the process between the first request for a search permit and the final extraction. Since the area covered by the search licence is multi-municipalities and often multi-waterboards, all this needs to be further developed once a search or extraction permit has been granted. As a result of the information provided by the Council of State and the size of the areas, I have opted for a step-by-step advisory right at this stage for municipalities and water authorities in that search and extraction permit. That means they get the right to be involved. That goes through the county. The province's bringing them in. Their views are taken into account in the provincial opinion. I think this is the best way. Once it is clear where and how it will be won, we know exactly which municipalities and water boards are involved. At that time an independent advisory right is given to the municipalities and the water boards. In my view, this construction, in which, at the beginning, when the area is still unclear, there is a step-by-step right of advice and then, once it is clear, an independent right of advice, is the best one. In my view, the amendment does not offer the best construction. That's why I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Minister's reasoning is that we do not yet know which waterboard or which municipality would be involved in the search permits, but that it has to be kicked through the province. However, the province does not know which municipalities and which water boards to ask for this advice. Is the Minister's problem, which is not clear to whom exactly advice should be sought, not simply being transferred to the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u6	We work with blocks. This means that there is a large block for which a company requests a search permit or, at a subsequent stage, a extraction permit. In that block there are a number of municipalities, but the company does not yet know exactly where that gas is possible. Before drilling, it takes a few years to do all kinds of other research in the ground to see what's in that ground. At that very first stage, there is still little concrete. If you then tax all these municipalities and water boards by letting them give an opinion on this, they will be involved in something in which they may not have had to be involved at all later. In the early stages, I think it is best that the province looks at which municipalities it is closer to and which municipalities are more superficial. Such a regional balance can best be made by a province. I think that, at a time when it is still in its early stages and is still vague, we are shaping it best in the way I have proposed, namely by means of the stepped-up right of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mrs Van Tongeren, we agreed that one question should be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u8	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u9	Very short, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u10	Is it true that in the Netherlands a mining permit has never been refused where a search permit has been issued and that it is therefore relevant to involve the waterboards and the relevant municipalities directly at the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u11	That could be; I don't know. I can say that both the extraction licence and the search licence are market organisation licences. That means there's nothing you can do about it. They're going to see if there's anything. If there is something, you will have the exclusive right to go and win, but then it is necessary to look at whether you can win there. Then the environmental permits, the Nature Protection Act, the EIA and then the extraction plan and the consent decision will all be discussed. Both the extraction licence and the search licence are therefore subject to market organisation licences to determine, when it is to be won, which company is to be allowed to do so. The amendment in part No. 21 (34348) by Mrs Tongeren and others is about security of supply. Mrs van Tongeren says that what I have proposed, namely to be able to include security of supply requirements with a extraction plan, should be deleted. Customers of low-caloric gas from the Groningen field are, as we know, physically dependent on that gas. They must be able to obtain that gas in the right quantities at the right moments. When it's cold, in winter, it takes a lot of gas. Then that gas must also be available. There must be no misunderstanding about that. Because the extraction from the Groningen field has been substantially reduced in recent years compared to the previous cabinet period, we are now on a halving of the extraction from the Groningen field. It is precisely for this reason that security of supply has become increasingly an interest that needs to be explicitly weighed. That's what's gonna happen. I am primarily concerned with the safety of the people in Groningen and secondly with the prevention of damage, but that security of supply for all people in the Netherlands is also very important. In the recent draft agreement decision on Groningen, we really looked up the lower limit with those 24 billion cubic metres. In half of the years that is not enough and will therefore have to be won a little more or perhaps a little more, depending on how cold a year is exactly. If we are dealing with this security of supply and are actually at too low a level of extraction in half the winters, it is wise to lay down in the law that there can also be rules on this security of supply. It is therefore not wise to remove the importance of security of supply, as proposed. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that the nitrogen plants are not yet running at their maximum. I would like to point out that, in a cold year, in a cold winter and on cold days, they are absolutely in full swing. Then we need all the capacity. It is precisely because the nitrogen plants are not able to produce enough, that it is necessary to get some extra out of the Groningen field. In short: security of supply is a relevant interest and that is considered. We're already doing that in practice. This will continue to play a role in future decision-making. That is why it is right to name this and to lay down in the law that rules can also be laid down in relation to that security of supply. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 21 (34348) by Mrs Van Tongeren and others
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u12	In the previous discussion, the Minister said that only a market organisation is involved in the investigation. The argument just used by the Minister not to involve water boards and municipalities would therefore apply here too. In the beginning, it was only a question of market organization: what company would be allowed to detect there? Maybe five years later, the minister says he has to consider security of supply. Then the Minister will know five years in advance what other companies are producing, what the gas demand is, what contracts have been concluded at the time, and what is going on with energy saving programmes, for example. Surely that can't be a real basis for a single search warrant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u13	This security of supply of low-caloric gas is vital for Dutch society. Our society is a very large part of that. The disasters are invisible if that gas cannot be delivered when it comes to it. What can go wrong in the country is really bad. This means that it is simply important that in the Mining Act, apart from the safety of people, apart from nature, apart from the environment and all kinds of other things and the damage that should not occur, we mention security of supply. It's not good not to. It is good to name them and to be able to lay down rules there only if necessary. I think this is a confirmation of the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mrs. Van Tongeren, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u15	The Minister has no opinion on this amendment from the Council of State. He has a state coordination scheme. The Minister can use the Crisis and Recovery Act. If the need comes true, the minister can still make an emergency bill. So it is completely double-conscious to say: we will not get the potatoes cooked or the nursing homes in the cold. The Minister has enough other instruments to ensure that heating is always on in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u16	I totally disagree with Mrs Van Tongeren. Wouldn't it be crazy if at some point I had to make an emergency bill to make sure that enough Groningen gas would be available in a cold winter? As long as we are dependent on the Groningen low-caloric gas, it makes sense that this gas will also become available and that you take into account the importance of all Dutch? It is logical that, on the basis of that interest, we should be able to lay down rules on this matter if necessary. That is so obvious that I really do not understand why Mrs Van Tongeren says that I should not do so, that I should not have to lay it down in the law and that I should come up with an emergency law if necessary. I really don't understand. Mr President, this concerns the amendment to item No. 21 (34348).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u17	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u18	I would advise against this amendment. I now turn to the amendment to item No. 22 (34348) by Mrs Van Tongeren and others In the explanatory statement to the amendment, it states that production water must be purified before it is injected back into the geological formations of origin. So you win oil or gas somewhere. From the deep subsurface, water comes up. What I want is for this water to go back to the same deep ground. Mrs Van Tongeren says, however, that you should not do that, you must first completely purify the water and then it can go back to that surface. Production water is water that occurs naturally in the subsurface. There is a lot of salt in it, and sometimes there are dangerous substances in it by nature. If you're going to use that water, if you're going to purify it and then put it back in the bottom, you can get unpredictable reactions. After all, you put in different water than you take out. It may be that precisely with that purified production water you cause underground chemical or physical reactions that increase risks. That's not the point. That is apart from the fact that the purification of the water that comes from the subsurface costs a lot of energy. It costs money and energy to do all that; then you put the purified water back and you run a risk. So it seems very strange to me to do this. Furthermore, the National Waste Management Plan requires that an environmental hygienic comparison is made with these kinds of things. For example, the redevelopment of the Schoonebeek oil field has resulted in an environmental impact assessment. In this m.e.r. It has been established that of all the possibilities available to deal with the production water, it is the least harmful for the environment if you let that water return to the same layer or to a similar layer as soon as possible. I believe that this amendment achieves exactly the opposite of what it is intended to do. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u19	Can the Minister send any scientific evidence to the Chamber showing that injecting clean water is more problematic than injecting "production water," as the Minister calls it? There's all kinds of substances in that water. In the United States, for example, the injection of production water creates serious problems here and there. I myself do not know any scientific study that shows that injecting clean water gives that kind of pollution problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u20	Even if there are no scientific studies that I can discuss right now, it is very wise to talk to experts about it when you do these things. So I did, and they informed me. Water that gets you out of a deep subsurface comes from a natural environment. If you clean up that production water that comes up with it and then put it back in the subsurface, you bring in something else than you take out. They say that this may result in unpredictable physical and chemical reactions and that you run risks with them. I don't get paid to look up and run risks. That's why I advise against doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u21	My question was whether that scientific evidence could also be sent to the Chamber. Then we understand, too. I also asked if the Minister has an answer to the huge amount of contaminated sources and groundwater in the United States as a result of injecting polluted waste water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u22	Now Mrs Van Tongeren talks about contaminated waste water. I'm talking about production water. That's water. I've already told you that you're pulling up from the subsurface and bringing it back into that subsurface. It's water that brings you back into its natural environment. I have already answered the question about scientific research. It would be an insult to Mrs Van Tongeren if I repeated that. So that was the amendment in part No. 22 (34348). In the Dik-Faber amendment to item No. 30 (34348) provides that, in addition to municipalities and water boards, the province must also involve drinking water companies in the opinion on the application for a search or extraction permit. The importance of drinking water is secured by the provincial task of protecting the quality of regional soil and surface water. That water is also protected by the instructions of the Empire about this. The province and the Empire therefore protect the quality of the water that should eventually become drinking water. In the Netherlands, drinking water companies are owned by public shareholders under the law, but they are privately organised companies. The legal task of protecting the quality of groundwater lies therefore with the province. The province is completely free to involve anyone she wants to involve. I can very well imagine that she also involves drinking water companies. In view of the fact that it is a provincial task and that these are privately organised companies, I do not think it is appropriate to require provinces to do so. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u23	Provinces are free to involve the expertise of drinking water companies. I think this would be very sensible, because drinking water companies know best how to protect groundwater and drinking water. What is against legalising this, so that drinking water companies really have that position and have the legal right to highlight all the knowledge and skills they have in the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u24	There's no need. We work in our country with a very serious intermediate level of government, the province. It has a legally defined task for water quality. Moreover, this water is protected by national rules. If the province is to give advice, it is useful to involve drinking water companies. There is no reason to expect the provinces not to do so. It is also a matter of private organised companies. If you involve one company, you may wonder why you don't give another company, for example an advisory company or a company that works a lot with water and has a lot of experience with it, that legal task. The provincial government has that responsibility and is very serious. It will involve those drinking water companies if there is added value. Nothing stands in their way in that respect. This amendment is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u25	Our drinking water is of general interest. Drinking water companies are not just companies. They represent the importance of our future supply of drinking water. If it goes wrong, it goes wrong irreversibly. My proposal, because it is not a democratically elected body, is not to ask them directly for advice, but to get kicked out. I think that is the answer to the Minister's comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mrs Dik-Faber does not do that in this case. The task of protecting water quality lies not with drinking water companies, but with the province. The province must perform that task well. The province is then addressed by the provincial parliament. If this kind of thing is going on, then it would be wise for the province to involve those with additional expertise in this area. They can be drinking water companies, but they can also be other companies. They could be consulting firms. That's up to the county. I'm sure the county will take that well. I do not think it is wise to pick out the drinking water companies from that whole of privately organized companies, and to give them a legal task, but not the others. That is why I am voting in favour of Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 30 have I come to Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 34 (34348) by members Van Veldhoven and Agnes Mulder. That amendment regulates the need for a storage permit under the Mining Act to re-inject production water. I have already said that production water is water that occurs naturally in the subsurface. It contains a high salt content and sometimes other dangerous substances. The reinjection of the water is regulated in the environmental permit, partly based on the National Waste Management Plan, the so-called LAP. I am prepared to consider whether it is desirable to use a storage permit, a storage plan based on the Mining Act, for new projects for the re-injection of that production water into another. You get that water from Schoonebeek, for example, but you don't put it back in Schoonebeek yourself, but in Twente, in a similar layer. I'd like to make a commitment to the Chamber that I'm going to look into that. Injecting it in the same appearance.......................................................................................................... I would also point out that geothermal energy involves the continuous re-injection of formation water. You extract the water from the same substrate, you extract the heat from it and then the water goes back into the subsurface. That's a permanent process of pumping and pumping back. I do not think it is appropriate to provide for a separate permit for this purpose. I'm comparing this with my reasoning just now. That is why I do not recommend Amendment No 2. 34 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u27	For the administration: Amendment No 34 has been replaced by Amendment No. 60 (34348), also by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u28	I thank the Minister for his commitment. However, I would like to say a few words about the amendment. Take a look at the injection of production water. During our work visit to the United States, we have seen that it is precisely by injecting water that earthquakes can be indicated. By bringing that injection under the Mining Act, we aim at a test within that framework to prevent that indication from occurring. Whether by injection of geothermal water or by another form of water, you want to prevent indicated earthquakes. You want a test on that. In this respect, we do not distinguish between one form of energy or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u29	In the U.S., they do it in a different way. You take it out of the subsurface and you put it back in the same place. We are using geothermal energy more and more. That's where this is a permanent process. With another extraction it is not a permanent process, but as long as you take out the gas or the oil, the production water comes with it and that makes you go back. I think that the reasoning I have just given is a final one. There's really no need to do this. As far as the same occurrence is concerned, there is simply no problem. As far as another place is concerned, I have already promised the Chamber, following Mrs Van Veldhoven's initiative, to see if I will do what Mrs Van Veldhoven says for those situations. I think there are reasons to see that. Madam President, may I also say that I find it really problematic that I am faced with the fact that, while I am responding to an amendment, without knowing that other amendments have already been tabled? I find it difficult to work in this way to guarantee my contribution to the quality of the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you. Mrs Van Veldhoven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u31	I share the Minister's view that it is very difficult for amendments to be introduced during the debate. This also has to do with the fact that we want to complete this shortly before the recess. It is also not optimal for the Room. Once again, I thank the Minister for his commitment to consider whether other layers require a permit. What matters to me is that you want to make sure in advance that there are no risks for earthquakes, no matter why you pump up and pour back that water. Maybe it could just become part of the permit that's already in place. I agree with the Minister that it is very interesting to think about this where we can streamline and coordinate permits. However, reinjection is something other than extracting it. You want to make sure you don't take unnecessary risks with that. That is the intention of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mrs Van Veldhoven now says that she is not concerned about the need for a separate plan and a separate permit. The amendment is a separate application for a permit which should be submitted. She says: you should also include that element in the existing permits. I think this is already the case. As far as it would not be the case, I think it would be wise to do what Mrs Van Veldhoven says. It is true that she could see the reasonableness of what I am saying. So you've got geothermal. That means you're getting water out of the deep subsurface. That's where you take the heat out and the water goes back. We are all fine with that; it is not a problem. Somewhere else it's about the gas extraction. Then there'll be water. That water goes back and then it would be a problem at once. That's not fair. If you take the water out and put it back in the subsurface somewhere else, in a place that I say is a similar place, it's good that you take a good look at it and then you make a plan and get a permit for it. I think it is reasonable to look at that, and I will. But this amendment, tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Agnes Mulder, to item No. 34, I advise. I shall come back to the amendment to item No. 60, to see what that looks like and what the difference is with the amendment in part No. 34. I will respond again if you will allow me to do so, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u34	Let me now turn to the Van Veldhoven and others amendment. in piece No. 31 (34348). I take immediately the Wassenberg/Van Tongeren sub-amendment in part No. 38 (34348) with me. The amendment provides that no authorisations are granted for the detection and extraction of minerals and geothermal energy in Natura 2000 sites and sites designated as World Heritage Sites. So it's about tracking and mining permits. Those search and extraction permits, I said before, are about who in a particular area gets the exclusive right to detect and win. So that's not something you can get out of your feet and then get gas or oil out of the bottom. It is a question of giving a company that first applied for it and invested in it, under the market regulation we have adopted, the exclusive right to come up with a plan to get rid of the mineral. An environmental permit is something else. This concerns the question of where and under what conditions the drilling or winning may be carried out. So you get such a market organization regulation, but you can't just go through with it. You must then have a Nature Protection Act and an environmental permit. When granting that environmental permit, it shall be considered where exactly and under what conditions the search drilling may take place. In addition, we have the extraction plan. Once you have determined that there is gas or oil somewhere, if you comply with the provisions applicable to the environmental permit and under the Nature Protection Act, and if you want to win there, you have to submit a extraction plan and consider whether there can be a permit under that plan to actually win. This amendment deals with the stage of the search and extraction permits and proposes that mining installations should no longer be placed in Natura 2000 sites or in World Heritage Sites. The explanatory statement states that the extraction under these areas should remain possible under conditions by drilling obliquely. Mrs Van Veldhoven also said this in the debate. This amendment now seeks to prohibit the granting of search and extraction permits for sites designated as Natura 2000 sites or as a World Heritage Site. I told you, those permits aren't about that. It's just permits that determine who gets to go in that area. This amendment is therefore linked to a permit which is not and is not suitable for it at all. If this amendment is to be incorporated into the law, then it is no longer necessary to drill. Now we do. From the mainland in Groningen and Friesland there is an angle under the Wadden Sea. This is done via the hand-to-the-crane principle and it does not appear to be a problem. The bottom doesn't sink there and so it's allowed to continue. If there was a problem, it has to stop. With the amendment that is now being proposed, that is no longer acceptable. What is proposed in this amendment is not working properly. The final question where exactly can be drilled when you have received a search permit is dealt with in the environmental permit, which is based on the National Structure Vision. This works through in the general provisions of the Environmental Law Act. That is the way we should do it, not the search and extraction permits. We have already established that exploration and extraction facilities may only be placed in a Natura 2000 or World Heritage Site if they do not damage nature there. So it is a condition that there is no damage to nature. The arrangements underlying Natura 2000 and World Heritage sites are all not aimed at banning the placement of installations under all circumstances. No, they are aimed at banning the placement there if it causes damage to nature. If it does not damage nature, it must be possible to place it. I think that with this amendment you are trying to arrange something in the wrong place, namely the search and extraction permits, which makes it impossible for you to say in the explanatory statement that you do not want to make it impossible. In addition, you add something extra to a protection regime that is already very strict and that means that installations can only be placed if there is no damage to nature. I believe that this amendment does not make a positive contribution to the whole. That's why it deserves to be dissuaded by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u35	I wonder if the Minister will use the same argument as we are about the Wadden Sea. There is also an amendment on this. My group and the other proposers want to avoid applying for environmental permits for the installation of mining installations in sensitive natural areas. We want to do this by preventing it from being granted an economic right. Under this economic law, you can then apply for the other permits. It therefore adds something to the protection afforded by the other licences. In the balancing framework that exists under Natura 2000 and the Birds and Habitats Directives, things are possible, provided you compensate. Because it is not necessary, since there is always an alternative, my group no longer wants to authorise the installation of mining installations in these sensitive areas, precisely because that does not have to be at the expense of the winability of the gas, because you can also do it obliquely. That's a good alternative. That is why we want to exclude economic law in these areas, so that you do not even belong to the demand of the environmental permit. It has a preventive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u36	Those areas are already protected. We have established a very legal regime for this. There's no reason to suddenly do something on top of that. If you say that no search or extraction permit can be granted throughout that area, this means that this applies from the very beginning to the whole area below the surface. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that the matter will be checked by hand-to-the-crane principle. It is not the intention of this amendment to make that impossible. But it does make it impossible. With this amendment in hand you can no longer drill from the side in all Natura 2000 and World Heritage sites in the Netherlands, for example in the Zeeland waters. What is meant by this amendment is actually made impossible. That can't be the intention. As far as the Wadden Sea is concerned, we have a special situation there. You have World Heritage there, which has a regime on it. You have the Wadden Islands, which have been explicitly excluded. And you have on top of that the coastal zone, which has been designated Natura 2000. The Court is constantly saying that this must be regarded as a whole. She has stated in a motion that a drilling plant on Terschelling is not allowed. Furthermore, she has adopted a motion in which extraction in the waters for Schiermonnikoog is not allowed. Then I find myself in a situation where the Wadden Sea and its surroundings are subject to ad hoc policies. The law is not applied there, nor are the legal procedures. But the Chamber decides on licence applications by motion. That's an undesirable situation. What I'm trying to do is to turn what came out of the Chamber into a legal procedure that I can take care of and that's justified. If I try to find a solution to the situation in the Wadden Sea, this does not mean that Mrs Van Veldhoven's amendment, which deals with all Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands, should receive the same treatment. That should not be the case, with the arguments I have just mentioned. That leads me to do so, the amendment to item No. 31 (34348)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, briefly. I would also urge the Minister to do it compactly, because we still have a number of amendments to go with. The debate was actually held last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u38	But this is a really important one. Because now the Minister is doing exactly what he blames the Chamber, namely inconsistent ad hoc policy. For this World Heritage, I'll do it. I won't do it for that World Heritage. The Minister's reasoning follows: if we adopt two more motions on the Westerschelde, he will also find a solution along the same lines as for the Wadden Sea. So all I have to do is put forward a number of motions on Natura 2000 sites, and then the amendment would at one time be a good solution for ad hoc situations. I share with the Minister that we should not do so. I share with him that it should remain possible to drill under such areas from the side. That is why the amendment explicitly states that rules can be laid down for this at AMvB. If the Minister says that in the current wording it does not cover enough, I am of course prepared to look at that technical side. But the Minister does not have a consistent story why he says: I want clarity and legal certainty, and that is why I do not think that this amendment adds anything to Natura 2000, because it does not have to. But it has to be for the Wadden Sea. That reasoning is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u39	Life would have been easier for me if the Chamber had not made statements on the Wadden Sea by way of motion that prevent me from applying the law, but we live in a democracy. It is therefore up to the Chamber itself to decide what statements it makes and what decisions it tries to force on me, and it is my job to do justice to that. I do this by stating that there is a special situation and a complicated situation with regard to the Wadden Sea: World Heritage, islands that have been kept outside and above that the Natura 2000 site. The Chamber is now saying that special things must be done in that Natura 2000 area and that the Wadden Islands that are deliberately excluded from it should in fact be brought under that regime. That's the practice I'm faced with. I can now do two things, namely continue to apply the law, and then every time I hear from the Chamber that things have to be different. Then I can ignore the Chamber and go through with it. However, I can also check whether, with these three different regimes, the situation with regard to the Wadden Sea has grown and whether it is better to opt for another regime. This would follow a specific line specifically for the Wadden Sea. I've been trying to work this out and I'll come back to that later. However, I do not think that the conclusion should now be drawn that for all Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands, there are a lot of areas that need to be dealt with differently from what we have laid down in the law for those areas. We have laid down in the law that nothing must be done to harm nature there. But if you do something there that doesn't harm nature, it's okay. Mrs Van Veldhoven is now saying that even if nature is not harmed there if a mining plant is set up there, this should not be allowed in advance. Well, it's her choice to do that. However, it is my choice to discourage that. I come to the Wassenberg/Van Tongeren sub-amendment to item No. 38 (34348). It also provides that the Natura 2000 sites should not be used for drilling. That which Mrs van Veldhoven still leaves open, namely that there is going to be angled drilling under those areas, is not allowed in this amendment. I therefore advise the House not to accept this amendment and give the same reasoning as that of the previous speaker. I come to the Van Veldhoven amendment to item No. 35 (34348). It states that the general instructions I give to State supervision of the Mines must be sent to the Chamber. Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that there is a distinction between general indications and particular indications. Special indications can be found on a specific case and general indications can be repeated. I don't have any room to steer it: it's special or general. That follows from the nature of the clues. The general indications often take the form of a policy rule and for that reason they are public. Therefore, I do not think it is necessary to deal with this separately, but I also have no objection to making it public in those cases where general indications do not take the form of a policy rule. I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber. I refer to the Van Veldhoven amendment to item No. 36 (34348). It states that the law should also include an assessment clause which requires that the law be reviewed five years after its entry into force. I think this is neither unusual nor unwise. I therefore think it would be wise to leave it to the Chamber to give its opinion on this amendment. Now I come to the Dik-Faber and others amendment. in piece No. 37. It states that the extraction plan should also include the expected emissions of greenhouses due to the use of the mineral resources to be extracted. We are going to take an assent decision at some point for the extraction plan for the Groningenveld, for example. Then the NAM must indicate the emissions resulting from the use of the gas, which will take place later. We know that the gas is used for everything. It's made of fertilizer. It runs in factories, for heating, but also to make other products. It is used for heating houses. It is inconceivable for such a mining undertaking to which this gas is used and to what extent it will lead to greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of its use. I find it really disproportionate to impose such a requirement on a mining plan. That is why I do not recommend Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment to item No. 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u40	Worldwide, around $500 billion a year is devoted to identifying new locations for fossil raw materials, while we know that only 20% to 40% of existing reserves can be used, if we are to achieve the climate targets. I believe that the Netherlands should play its part in this and that we should be aware that all the oil and gas that we are taking and using now is contributing to climate change. I am open to suggestions to deal with it in a different way, but we still need to see how much stock we still have to deal with, how much CO emissions this leads to and what that contributes to climate change? With this apple, after the Climate Agreement and after the Urgenda climate statement, I challenge the Minister to join us in thinking about how we can make that change with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u41	I believe that I have heard Mrs Dik-Faber say that 500 billion dollars a year would be spent on the detection of fossil energy. That will undoubtedly be an outdated figure, because I can assure her that there are major problems in the offshore sector at the moment. The profitability has fallen and people are being dismissed because there is much less detection due to the fact that we are working around the world to shift the focus and engage in renewable energy. I therefore believe that this is an outdated figure. I think that we have shown that if we use fossil energy, whether in the form of coal, gas or oil, it has climate effects and that we must therefore reduce that use. If we have to charge a company with indicating what emissions the production of gas from the Groningenveld results in, depending on its use, it will have no added value at all for the climate of the world as a whole, but it will pose a major practical problem for that company. This company is only doing what we consider desirable, namely to use natural resources that are here in the Netherlands, because we do not have to buy the gas from others. There is therefore no reason to impose an obligation on this company, which has no added value for the climate. That is why I did not recommend Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u42	The Minister speaks of disproportionate. He also stated that it had no added value for the climate. But we have established that we have to leave a significant part of the fossil stock in the ground, most of it, in order to prevent us from exceeding the target of 2 degrees or, rather, 1.5 degrees? I cannot imagine that business interests outweigh the importance of climate change, which we are now faced with, and which we are already seeing in our country too. I therefore appeal once again to the Minister: if this is not the measure, please give me another one. But my group and the co-signatories certainly do not find it disproportionate to ask a company to make their contribution to climate change clear. I hope, of course, that they will eventually come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u43	Mrs Dik-Faber says that fossil energy carriers that are in the ground must remain in the ground. For this reason, she believes that if you win gas, for example, you have to say what its effect is in terms of CO emissions. There is no point, however, in imposing an obligation on mining operations every time, as it does not achieve anything at all. We know with each other exactly what we use in the world of fossil energy carriers. Whether it's in one place or another whether it's one company or another, it doesn't matter. If we also want to determine this very specifically per company and per place, it will only generate a lot of work, which has no added value. In addition, we ask for information from a company that can't supply it. Such a company does not know how much of that gas is used to make fertilizer. Such a company does not know what equipment it is used in and what the efficiency and efficiency of that equipment is. Such a company doesn't know if there might be a CCS trajectory behind it. None of this is known to a company like this. That gas just ends up on the market. What we ask of a company here is really unreasonable, has no added value and provides extra work without any point. I therefore advise against that amendment. In his amendment to item No. 39 (34348) says Mr Bosman that there should be coordination. He then referred in particular to coordination at the last stage, the stage of a extraction plan. So we have a long procedure. We'll start with an APB. Then we'll need an environmental permit. There's got to be a law on nature conservation. There's gotta be an E.R. Then there will be a mining permit. Then you come to the stage where there will be a extraction plan. Then there must be another environmental permit, a nature protection permit, yet another EIA. Then there will be a consent decision. Mr Bosman is talking about the final stage. This concerns the approval of the extraction plan, the environmental permit for the extraction installation and the possible water permit required, possibly a mining environmental permit in the case of a continental shelf or a nature conservation permit. He says you should coordinate those permits at that stage. This means that they will be applied for simultaneously, that they will have to be submitted in substance and in conjunction, that the application will have to weigh the consequences of one aspect in relation to the other in width. For example, you have to weigh the importance of nature in relation to the safety importance. The legal advisers, in this case the municipality, the province and the waterboard, can give a coherent opinion on all aspects at once. An integral consideration can then be made by the person who has to take the decision. Mr Bosman proposes coordination, not a combination. This means that individual decisions remain in place, but that they are coordinated in their implementation. If the participation has been and the views and the people who have responded are not satisfied and go to court, this also means that the appeal can be coordinated and the judge can deal with the whole at once. I believe that this indeed has advantages for the citizen, as Mr Bosman assumes. All concerns and interests are brought in at once and can be taken into account. The number of moments of participation, which would otherwise create confusion, is merged. The procedure is getting shorter. There is more clarity, both for the citizens and for the applicant. Citizens do not always have to put forward separate and renewed arguments per decision, but can do so at once and in conjunction. I believe that what is being proposed here, which is being introduced by this amendment, can lead to improvements. That is why I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. In the amendment to item No. 40 (34348) points out to Mrs Agnes Mulder that compensation must be provided after cases have lapsed. Mrs Mulder had in particular what is happening in Limburg and what we are currently investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u44	May I interrupt you for a moment? This amendment has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 65 (34348). Perhaps it would be good if you deal with this in your second part if you could take a look at the amendments that have been tabled later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I will. I come to the amendment to item No. 41 (34348) by Mrs Van Tongeren and others That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. 23 (34348) replaces. The amendment makes it possible to take into account possible adverse effects on the environment or nature when granting search and extraction permits. This is what the applicants want not only with regard to the search permit but also with regard to the extraction plan. The amendment brings back some of the grounds for refusal previously introduced by the amendment to the offshore safety bill. It is now about the impact on the environment and nature. In its information, the Council of State indicated that the inclusion of these elements assessed in the environmental permit would result in the same review framework being applied at least at three times. I don't think that's desirable. The applicants consider that this is justified given the impact of those mining activities. They consider that that review should take place as early as possible in the process. The fact is that several parties insist that these elements should also be included in the search and extraction permit, even if there is a duplication. We have just discussed the possibility of coordinating different licences at a later stage. That makes it less difficult to have duplications, because if you can deal with them at the same time on the basis of Mr Bosman's amendment, then I think that my objection to this amendment has less value. In view of the debate we have had here a number of times and the opinion expressed by the Chamber on this point, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide on this amendment. I come to Mr Wassenberg's amendment to item No. 43 (34348) relating to the second letter of amendment. That amendment was tabled to replace an earlier amendment on item No. 42 (34348). The amendment refers to the part of the second letter of amendment in which I dealt with the collection and storage of CO in relation to CCS. You can store CO in a field that is still in use. Then you store it and you take the gas that's still in it, and then you come out at the same time. Then you store the CO, the gas you want to release, in that field. In order to make CCS possible for the ROAD project, I have said that it makes sense to do so. Mr Wassenberg says that he is opposed to CCS storage and that he is therefore opposed to making this possible now. I'm not against CCS and the ROAD project. I think that could be an important part of the CO reduction. In Europe, it is very clearly stated that it is inconceivable that we can achieve the CO reduction we need if we do not implement CCS in one way or another on a large scale. The ROAD project is the last major demonstration project that is currently under discussion in Europe and is really needed to take that step in the field of CO reduction. I am against an amendment that stands in the way of that. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u46	You are not the first author, but because Mr Wassenberg is not here, I will give you the floor very briefly, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u47	There is, of course, a difference between injecting CO in an elaborate field where there is no extraction again and the situation where there is active extraction. This is mainly about the latter. In any case, is the Minister prepared to allow it only if it has been shown that we will actually emit less CO net? I can table a motion or an additional amendment to that effect. The concern is that it has not yet been demonstrated that you can get net more CO in such a field if you continue to extract and inject gas. As the Minister explains, that is his intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u48	I have indicated that the extra amount of gas coming from that almost empty field is a fraction of what CO can be stored in that field. I mentioned the quantities in the debate. They're not in proportion to each other. Some extra gas can be extracted, but that's not wrong, because we all need that gas to keep us going. If we didn't get the gas out, we'd get it from another field, or we'd get it from Norway, Russia, or I know where. That's where it all has to be won. The gas will take you out and use you. Nothing extra's gonna happen. What you can do is quickly use this field to store CO in it. I can assure the Chamber that the storage of CO in a field off the Dutch coast, a very expensive project, is not easy and that it still requires a great deal of effort to make it work. To interfere with this process with an amendment is really not desirable and is not in the interests of the environment. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u49	You put CO in while you're winning methane out of it. Following a number of pilot projects that have been carried out elsewhere, the concern is that the extraction of methane, which is in itself a strong greenhouse gas, will release injected CO. Net doesn't give that whole operation any benefit for the climate, which is why it started. The Minister says he does not want this amendment, but the question is whether he is at least prepared to say that it is intended to release net less CO, so that it has a climate advantage net.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u50	I'm not gonna make any statements that could get in the way of this process. We take the gas out because we need it. 94% of our society is still working on this. We can leave the gas in there and get it out of a field at Woerden, but what good is that gonna do? We can leave the gas in here and then let it come from Norway, but what's in it for us? Nothing at all. The gas that is extracted is not blown into the air, but is used for the purposes for which we use gas in the Netherlands. The only thing you achieve by stopping that is that you're making a difficult CCS storage project, which I've been working on for a few years, even more difficult. That is absolutely not in the interests of the environment. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The Van Tongeren c.s. amendment in piece No. 48 (34348) is intended to replace the amendment to item No. 19 (34348) and concerns compensation. The explanatory notes refer to the Civil Code. It's good to see how we've taken care of that right now. We have already regulated it, even better than is proposed in this amendment. The current Article 4 of the Mining Act provides that the obligation to tolerate landowners shall be without prejudice to their right to compensation for damage caused by the mining activities referred to in that Article. You own a piece of land that contains gas, for example. It's being taken out. Under Article 4 of the Mining Act, you are entitled to compensation for any damage. According to Article 177 of Book 6 of the Civil Code, the operator of a mining work is liable for damage caused by two causes. One is the flow of minerals and the other is the movement of the soil as a result of the construction or exploitation of a mining work. Soil movement means both earthquakes and soil decline. Under the combination of the Mining Act and the Civil Code, damaged landowners are already entitled to compensation for all the damage you can imagine: damage caused by spills, earthquakes and soil declines. All this damage has to be compensated. This amendment seems even to contain a limitation, because the outflow of minerals is not mentioned. The amendment is only about compensation in the case of a soil movement. Moreover, the amendment applies only to landowners. Apart from landowners, however, there are also tenants and tenants. They may also be entitled to compensation. This amendment makes something well arranged less good. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 48 (34348).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u51	The Minister has a point with regard to the landowners. We have amended this amendment as proposed by the Minister. However, there is a difference between the Mining Act and the Civil Code. In one law, it is only about all things related to the movement of the soil. The other law deals with the outflow of minerals. A motion by Mr Vos and myself has also been adopted on this. We want to include in all documents the broad concept of'mining damage'. This can therefore relate to the effects of mineral effluents and to the consequences of soil movement. That is the purpose of this amendment. If it is not yet legally flawless, I am open to suggestions, but that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u52	My suggestion is to withdraw the amendment quickly and leave it as it is. The Civil Code states precisely that you are kept to compensate for the damage in all cases, whether caused by one or by another. The Mining Act only states that if a landowner has an obligation to tolerate it, this does not mean that he may then be harmed. The Mining Act states that an obligation of tolerance does not at all mean that there is any limitation on the right to compensation for damage. The Civil Code is perfectly arranged. The Mining Act provides that there is no limitation on the right to compensation in the event of compulsory tolerance. It is not wise to regulate something that is well arranged with an amendment less well. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 48 (34348). I shall deal with the amendment to item No. 49 (34348) on the so-called separation problem. The section in the bill on split-off relates only to the five old licences granted for 1965. This applies more generally, also independently of the Groningenveld. Five old licences were granted to the NAM for 1965. These permits are framed in the gas building. We have concluded specific financial payments agreements with NAM on this subject. These relate in particular to the Groningenveld. There are two interests in this. The first interest is the financial interest of the State. In order to safeguard that financial interest of the State, the Mining Act should explicitly stipulate that the payment agreements concluded for these licences will be maintained when part of those licences are split and transferred. So you can't get out of the payment provisions by splitting and dividing permits. The current Mining Act does not offer this certainty. We have therefore improved this point in the revision of the law. The second is the legal status of the NAM. The NAM has a legal status with respect to this gas. For the disjoined permits, we now arrange for the ownership of the original licence to remain unchanged. Any compensation that would be mandatory will therefore also be maintained. So nothing changes for the NAM's legal status. Thus, when the old licences deal with divisions and the like, we do not have any changes in the interests of the State or in the interests of the NAM. I think it would be wise to do so. In the amendment to item No. 49 (34348) this is determined differently. That is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mrs. Van Tongeren, I see you want to interrupt. I would like to repeat that we do not repeat the debate as much as possible. You may, of course, ask one more question, but I also have a little time to guard. Today's plenary agenda is very full. I am happy to give you the floor, but I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u54	The Minister says that this law is a market organisation instrument, but it maintains unequal competition between different operators. The Minister may also reduce the licence and re-publish it. He can then also arrange for EBN to participate, thereby guaranteeing the payment to the State. The Council of State also says that this creates an unequal competitive relationship and is not necessary for the revenue of the State. I therefore do not understand the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u55	I turned it in anyway. Good agreements have been made on old licences prior to 1965, on the one hand, to protect the interests of those who have licences, on the other hand, to ensure that the financial interests of the State are not affected. To keep it that way at a split, we have included this provision in the Amendment of the Mining Act. I believe that the proposal made by amendment is detrimental to the financial interests of the State and/or the legal position of the company concerned. I do not think it is right to do so, and I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mrs. Van Tongeren, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u57	So we get two types of new permits. The Council of State has explicitly said that you should not do this. On other points, the Minister says that market organisation must ensure fair opportunities for all companies that want it and that the opinion of the Council of State must be followed. However, the Minister only protects the interests of the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u58	I wonder why Mrs Van Tongeren would say that. I say that there are two interests: the financial interest of the State and the interest of the holder of the authorisation, the NAM. Then she says that I only protect the interests of the NAM. That's not true. I have said that I am primarily protecting the financial interests of the State. There are still five old permits from before 1965. Those permits can be split up. You can compare those split-up permits with new permits given in 2016, but there is a regime for those old permits. If there are divisions in those old permits, I will ensure that the old rights that apply to them remain unchanged. I think that's very logical and predictable. If I did not do so, we would be facing legal problems and nobody would benefit, especially in view of the financial importance of the State. That is why I have the amendment to item No. 49 (343488) not recommended. With the Van Tongeren c.s. amendment in piece No. 50 (34348), replacing the amendment to item No. 28, the aim of which is to make an environmental impact assessment mandatory for the issuing of a search or extraction permit. Now it's settled like this. There's an APB. After that, you'll need an environmental permit and sometimes a Nature Protection Act license. There's an E.R. in there. Then there will be a mining permit. Then a extraction plan comes into view. Afterwards you will need a new environmental permit and, if necessary, a new Nature Protection Act permit. There's a new E.R. with that. In the end, there will be a decision of consent. Mrs. Van Tongeren says it could get even crazier. You can also ask for an EIA at the very first licence, the search permit. When applying for an environmental permit for the search or extraction activity, the mining company shall already indicate whether that activity has significant effects on the environment. If that is the case, an EIA must be drawn up. I think everyone understands that linking an EIA to the search and extraction licence is tantamount to the accumulation of procedures. At the end of the day, no human being can understand that. It also has no added value. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u59	I find that curious, because the Minister said in an earlier debate that he was considering dealing with this per AMvB, precisely because it is easier to say no at the beginning of the process than after an APB has already been issued. We have already seen a number of times that the Minister says that there are no grounds for rejecting the licence. If, through an amendment, we can arrange for the environment and nature to become new grounds for rejection, then it must be done directly with the search permit. It is also so fair for a company to know right in front that there may be an environmental problem. Such a company is not going to invest a million dollars in such a drilling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u60	I would be delighted if Mrs Van Tongeren, like Mr Bosman, would make a proposal for coordination. In the beginning you have a search permit, a extraction permit, an environmental permit and an EIA assessment. So there are different procedures. If you're going to coordinate those procedures, you can let the E.R. relate to everything, and then you can get a profit and clear the time. But I don't get a proposal like that. According to Mrs Van Tongeren, what's going on must remain in place. In the early stages there is already an EIA, but in her opinion another EIA needs to be created. That's not an improvement. Perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren could consider proposing what Mr Bosman has proposed for the final stage, also for the first stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u61	If that can possibly be accepted by the Minister, I would certainly like to see whether the amendment can be amended. What I want to achieve is that things are getting better in the Netherlands on both sides. It will not only improve the environment, but also make it easier for businesses to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u62	That's how I know Mrs. Van Tongeren. This means that I will use my time until the second term to see if we can reach out to Mrs van Tongeren on this point. I'll come back to that in the course of the day. I now have my opinion on the Van Tongeren and others amendment. in piece No. 50 (34348), but I may come back to that as a result of what I have just said. After all, the amendment may be replaced by an amendment on which I would have a different view. I come to the amendment to item No. 51 (34348) tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Wassenberg to replace Amendment No 51 by Mr Smaling and Mr Wassenberg. 46 (34348). Mr Smaling and Mr Wassenberg introduced provisions limiting a number of deadlines to two years. They are intended to set deadlines for the submission of an application for a mining authorisation and for the submission of a extraction plan. They also want a periodic assessment of the agreement to the extraction plan. A extraction permit should be applied for within two years if it is demonstrated on the basis of an investigative licence. Once a extraction permit has been granted, a extraction plan shall be submitted within two years. Once the extraction plan has been agreed, it must be evaluated within two years. I will deal with two parts of the amendment. First of all, I would like to comment on the part concerning the first part of the process, namely the search permit and the extraction permit. The Mining Act contains sufficient safeguards for the active use of the search and extraction permit. If a company applies for an APB and then receives it, it must not sit back and do nothing. I told you, you don't start drilling right away. All kinds of other things have to be done first. You need a period of three to four years for that. That's why we've arranged that, if you get an APB, you have to submit a work plan for all the work you're going to do over a certain period of time. We can follow that. The period of validity of the search permit can only be extended if we can see that the delay is not due to the licence holder. In that case, we can extend it, but otherwise the limit will be four years. That border is a reasonable one. If, on the basis of an investigative licence, a mining company has shown itself to be economically viable, it will apply for a mining licence. It will then be granted. If the company does not ask for a mining licence, the search permit expires at the end of the period and the company is empty-handed. Then the case is over. The search permit shall be valid for a period of four years. It's not gonna stay down. It'll be all gone. The problem with the mining permit does not arise. A requirement to submit a extraction plan within two years of a mining authorisation is unnecessary. Once a company has invested in the search, if that company has received a mining licence, it wants to see returns for all costs incurred. Of course, such a company then comes up with a mining plan to make money from it. If the holder of a mining licence does not do so, if no activities are carried out in that area, then the Mining Act already allows me to withdraw the mining licence. If that company only carries out activities in one part of its territory and not in another part, then I can withdraw the licence for the part where those activities are not carried out. I therefore have sufficient opportunities for the first stage of the search and extraction permit to proceed in an orderly manner. If something doesn't go well, then the permit goes automatically, or I can revoke the permit. The second part concerns the extraction plan. The issue is whether or not we are actually going to win. Mineral extraction must always be carried out in accordance with a mining plan submitted to me. The consent to the extraction plan shall be valid for as long as the extraction is carried out in accordance with the consent granted and in accordance with the requirements and limitations attached thereto. It shall be supervised by the SodM. If there are any changes to the extraction process, it must be notified in good time. An amendment to the extraction plan must then be submitted. That's where the SodM gets involved. The plan can then be implemented. The whole process, after the extraction plan has been submitted and the assent decision has been taken, has therefore been checked. The SodM monitors compliance with the rules and regulations. If amendments are made, they may not be carried out until an amended permit has been obtained. In my opinion, a biennial review of the extraction plan is unnecessary. That has no added value. In the proposal for a directive on safety and control which I have tabled, I can always withdraw the consent granted or impose restrictions or regulations on it if it is justified, for example, if there are changed circumstances or changes in safety, the possibility of damage, because of the planned use and management of minerals, geothermal energy or other natural resources or the storage of substances. Once I have provided a extraction plan with a positive assent decision, I am not bound by that. It's not right that I can't do anything anymore. If there are good reasons for amending or withdrawing this, then I can do so on the basis of the proposal I made, on the basis of the Safety and Control Act. In doing so, the Mining Act provides sufficient guarantees to achieve what the authors of the amendment want. A mandatory biennial evaluation of the consent decision to the extraction plan is unnecessary and unnecessarily burdensome for the whole. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 51 of Mr Smaling and Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mr Smaling has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u64	That was a very clear explanation. Let's see what we can do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u65	The Smaling/Wassenberg amendment to item No. 52 (34348) was tabled to replace that in document No 52. 25. The amendment aims to ensure that the consent to the extraction plan for the Groningenveld is subject to a maximum period of two years. The period after which I will ask for a modified extraction plan depends on the availability of new data that may lead to new insights. A extraction plan will be submitted at some point. Then I will take a decision of consent and see what period I expect new information to be available. As soon as that new information is available, I want a new extraction plan submitted. State supervision of the Mines (SodM) has advised me to authorise the Groningenveld, on which I will have to take a new decision in the course of this year, for a period of five years, and to take a consent decision. At SodM it is expected that over a longer period, in this case five years, it will be possible to assess exactly the positive effects of stable extraction. So we are now moving on to stable extraction, at a low level of 24 billion cubic metres. We strive for as much stability as possible and will then see what effects this has on seismicity. SodM says you need five years to get a good look at that. I then received an opinion from the Mining Council on this. It has given me exactly the same advice: a period of five years. If both authorities are wrong and if something new should happen during the interim period, I can always ask for a new extraction plan and take a new assent decision. So it's settled in an orderly manner. The amendment is not necessary and I therefore advise against its adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u66	In this amendment, I have in mind the report of the Research Council for Safety and the book 'De Gaskolie', in which there is a passage in which it refers to a period of ten years and where you want to complete the quota in dairy farming terms, even if you have won less than you intended in the first few years. That is also what is at risk. Hence this amendment, to be brief and leave the Minister on top of it. It is, of course, an extra support for the Groningers if it is not attached to it for such a long time. I find five years on the long side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u67	With 24 billion cubic meters a year, we have really looked up the bottom. That's gonna get you out in half the years. In the other half of the years you will need more depending on the cold in a given year. State surveillance of the Mines has said: you have to do two things. You need to sit as low as possible and you need to sit as stable as possible. The best combination of those two is that you're holding 24 billion cubic meters. You have to do that for five years and then you can see in those five years whether that low level and that stability have the desired effect. That's exactly what I'm doing, also because the Mining Council gave me the right advice. As Mr Smaling says, it may be that in the meantime new developments are emerging that should reasonably lead to a new understanding. In that case, my successor can do that. So we've done a really good job of getting things sorted out. We followed exactly the advice of SodM and the Mining Council. But we do have the opportunity to change course again in special situations. I believe that what Mr Smaling actually means by his amendment has been dealt with in practice in a similar way. I shall now turn to the Smaling-Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 54 (34348). On that point, I disagree with Mr Smaling. That has been the case for some time now. I have used this issue as an example on several occasions. Mr Smaling and others in the Chamber felt that certain measuring instruments should be purchased and installed. He's already said that once by means of a motion. It's about tilt meters. That is what needs to be done, and now he is even laying it down in an amendment. Both the Mining and Mining Decisions stipulate that a measurement plan must be submitted for each extraction. That measurement plan is assessed by SodM. When agreeing to the extraction plan, I will consider whether additional monitoring is necessary on the basis of the expected soil movement and the resulting damage. For Groningen, it has already been agreed that the NAM has submitted a study and a data acquisition plan together with the submitted extraction plan, specifying specifically what information should be made available, how developments can be monitored and what tools should be used. The plan also describes how and where to use which building sensors. The NAM is currently mapping out whether and in what way the explanatory notes on the amendment to item No. 54 (34348) tiltmeters could contribute to monitoring. The NAM itself makes a choice of meters to be used. At the moment, the tilt meters, for which Mr Smaling regularly asks for attention, are not included, but the NAM is in the process of mapping out whether these tiltmeters could make a positive contribution to the whole. The National Coordinator Groningen has also launched an investigation into the potential added value of tiltmeters and will inform me about this after the summer. I have nothing for or against tilt meters. I just want to make sure there's gonna be a good measure. I am convinced that the NAM and the SodM have used the good instruments for the measurements they have made. Because of the fact that Mr.Smaling and others are always talking about these specific meters, two studies are now being carried out, one by the NAM and one by the National Coordinator, to see if tiltmeters would have added value. As a legislator, I do not think that you should prescribe which type of instrument or building sensors should be used. You should leave that to the experts, to the SodM. They need to see what's best for that. That is also a dynamic process. It may be that one meter is better now, but new developments are coming. Next thing you know, another meter's gonna be the best. Then you should not be legally bound to a certain meter, but you should be able to do what is most sensible at that time. I believe that we have moved a long way towards Mr Smaling. I do not want to block tilt meters, but I am not in favour of including their use in the law. That is why I am voting in favour of this amendment. 54 (34348) detachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u68	We've been talking about this for a while, because the NAM determines whether or not tilt meters are used. We have to get rid of the fact that the NAM determines that. I see this as an important outcome of the report of the Research Council for Security: you have to keep the cause of the damage away from, for example, a research programme. Tilt meters specifically show how buildings move as a result of soil movement. So they're showing something else. They're not directly damage related. People need that very much. There are a lot of Groningen people who are digging into that. Also independent scientists and geologists say that you really need those meters. It's not about the lifting sensors per se, but now that we're dealing with this law and you could put them in through a General Measure of Management, I think this is the time. Because I just don't see it happening. Apparently, the NAM has no interest in using tilt sensors. That's my conclusion after the last month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u69	What Mr Smaling says is not correct. It's not the NAM that determines that, but the SodM and I decide that. If we think that these meters are necessary for proper monitoring, then they just get there. It has been said to the NAM: you have indicated that you want to do it without those tilt meters, but go again to see if those tiltmeters can have added value. We have also said that we want this not only to be looked at by the NAM, but also by the National Coordinator. He's gonna hire experts to do that, and he's gonna look into it. What comes out of that is not the basis for what the NAM decides. It is the SodM and myself who may say: we think it should be done. If we say that, it will. Mr Smaling's request for that to be laid down in the law really goes too far. It is not for me to block something that Mr Smaling and others believe can have added value. I have to pay attention to that, that needs to be investigated. If that has added value, I will also show it and we will draw conclusions from it. But not while the investigations are still going on, that's really not good. I think Mr Smaling is going a long way with these tilt meters. I would therefore advise against his amendment to item No. 54 (34348). With the amendment in part No. 55 (34348) by Mrs Agnes Mulder and others The aim is to establish that the SodM can advise me on the consequences of terminated mining activities without any request. The holder of a licence shall have the duty of care to prevent damage caused by the mining activity he carries out. To that end, he shall take all measures which may reasonably be required of him. Even if that authorisation has expired, the last authorisation holder may be required to take care of it. The SodM will see to that. If that duty of care is not complied with, SodM can act as a enforcer. This is also true of Mrs Agnes Mulder c.s. the obligation of care with regard to the former coal mining industry in Limburg. In 1974 the mining was stopped. In some cases there is no longer a mining company and there is no legal successor. Then the SodM doesn't have a job there. But I don't want to rule out whether or not SodM wants to put something in there. I am working on a very large study of the possible consequences of the former coal mining in Limburg. In doing so, it is necessary to assess whether there is any reason to give the SodM an additional task. But I can't do that until after I get that investigation. I shall be discussing this with the Chamber in the second half of the year. It is too early to lay down this now in an amendment in anticipation of the completion of the study and to discuss my conclusions from that study. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u70	This is, of course, the time to regulate it legally, even if in six months' time the outcome of that investigation will come. We would have liked that to have come to the Chamber much sooner. We've had a technical briefing. The SodM has indicated that it is difficult that it itself does not have that competence. Then I think that's the time to take care of it. How does the Minister propose that this can be changed legally in the autumn as a result of the inquiry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mrs Mulder would have liked the results of this investigation earlier. But that's not right. I have indicated how complex that research is, who will do it, how long it will take and what will be involved. I am sticking to exactly what has been agreed with the Chamber on this matter. When I mentioned all that, we came to the conclusion that we had to do it this way. Then I do not think it is right to say afterwards: we would have wanted it much earlier. That's a non-righteous remark. As far as the SodM and its powers are concerned, that is quite possible, but at the moment I have no reason to give the SodM those powers. It is a question of powers that currently exist in the mining industry at the time. That's what we see on companies that have ever done mining there. When those companies are gone, the SodM is not in the picture. On the basis of these research results, we may think that there should be a role for the SodM. Then you can. I don't know if that should be regulated by law, but if it is, it will. I can make SodM do things that aren't legally regulated. I can just ask SodM to undertake certain activities, and then it will. I do not think that it would be wise, in anticipation of that investigation, to record something about broadening the current powers of the SodM. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 55 (34348).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u72	Very briefly, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u73	The Security Research Council has indicated that it is important that the SodM has sufficient space to carry out its task properly. During a technical briefing, the SodM asked the Lower House for these additional powers. What serious objections does the Minister have at the moment to the effect that he does not want to allow the granting of these powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u74	The SodM did not ask me to give those powers. If they had, I would have said that I think that if there is a task for them, I can impose it. I can also ask the SodM to do certain things, without any legal provision. Should the SodM have to do something that requires a legal provision, it can be done. It's too early to give jurisdiction, because we're investigating the case. So I don't know if it's really necessary to give a power. If that's necessary, it doesn't turn out until the investigation is done. I don't think you should do such things until after you've become convinced that this is necessary. So I don't think you should do this before the investigation is completed, in anticipation of something because it may be necessary. I don't think it's a good idea to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u75	Minister, we have not yet had your opinion on the amendment to item No. 53. Maybe that's at the bottom of your pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I come to the Smaling amendment on item No. 53 (34348). This amendment replaces the Smaling amendment in part No. 45. The limitation period of the action for compensation for damage caused by soil movement shall be subject to a long limitation period and to a short limitation period. The short limitation period means that, once it is clear that there is damage and that it is known who caused it, this should lead to something within a period of five years. If you know you have damage and you know who caused it, but you don't do anything about it for five years, the statute of limitations has expired. The long, absolute limitation period means that, if there is no damage at first but that damage occurs after a certain number of years, you can still claim it. For this we have set a legal deadline of 30 years. The amendment provides for the retroactive deletion of that long limitation period. The long limitation period applies, inter alia, to damage caused by soil movement caused by mining activities. This means that, at least, a claim is due 30 years after the event that caused the damage, as I have already said, took place. If that event consists of a continuous fact, the 30-year period starts to run after that fact has ceased to exist. That's how we legalized it. Mr Smaling therefore proposes, as I have just said, to delete that long limitation period of 30 years. However, these limitation periods should be legal certainty: it is a matter of not having to face a claim after many years, which often makes it impossible to determine the cause of such damage. If damage to buildings occurs after 30 years, there can be many reasons for this. From the point of view of legal certainty, it is not desirable to fall back on a situation over 30 years ago. It is possible that damage caused by mining activities may not occur for a long time after the event causing damage, but we have taken this into account by applying a period of 30 years for that limitation period. In Belgium, they have said that the deadline is 10 years. In Germany they have said that it is 20 years and in the Netherlands we have said that it is 30 years. So we have taken that into account. We had that investigated by the Utrecht Center for Accountability and Liability Law (UCALL). The investigation showed that the situation in the Netherlands is one and a half to three times more favourable than that in Germany and Belgium. The removal of this long limitation period is contrary to the interests of legal certainty and also leads to an undesirable situation, namely that you are responsible for something, while it can also have all kinds of other causes. You can be addressed to something, which is really not reasonable. In addition, the amendment stipulates that the situation regarding claims that have already expired, because more than 30 years have passed, should change retroactively. That is therefore an additional breach of legal certainty. For the future you create legal uncertainty and for the past you create legal uncertainty. That should not be the intention of the legislator. At least that is not the intention of the government. That is why we are proposing that, since this limitation period is already much longer than in neighbouring countries, we should leave it at that and not do what the amendment No. 53 is proposed. The amendment in part No. 53 I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u77	I still have to fight what the Minister says here. We discussed this last week. In Germany there is a so-called lex specialise, which regulates that there is an everlasting duty of care for damage caused by mining. Article 21 of the Constitution deals with the habitability of the country. We have to make sure of that, too. We are not testing the Constitution now, but if you look at that German special law, that research by the University of Utrecht is not complete. It is true that the time limits of 10, 20 and 30 years are mentioned, but I do not think that is true. We should therefore also consider whether we should not take on this duty of care forever in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u78	I do not have the wisdom when it comes to the comparison between the German, Belgian and Dutch situations. That is why, on a proposal from me, we have had Mrs Mulder conduct a separate, external, expert legal investigation into this. That research has been done and the entire legal complex in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands has been looked at. It has been concluded that the limitation period is 10 years in one country, 20 years in the other and 30 years in the Netherlands. The lex specialis and the fact that extraction is still taking place in Belgium and in Germany are involved in that investigation. The lawyers who did the research and who submitted a report on it have drawn the conclusion that I have just expressed. I have no reason to deviate from that. Agnes Mulders c.s. amendment in piece No. 56 (34348) is to replace the amendment on item No. 33. What the amendment does is to include in the General Environmental Law provisions an obligation for an AMvB to monitor groundwater in mining works. This is also reflected in the situation in Limburg. Each authorisation for a mining activity shall identify the possible effects. On that basis, it will be determined which monitoring is necessary. This can also be monitoring with deeper groundwater wells. SodM advises me on that. The method of monitoring shall be appropriate to the activity and to the local situation. So it always asks for a location-specific interpretation. That doesn't stand for you to lay this down in a law. Then you ignore the importance of the location-specific nature of the monitoring. I have to provide adequate customization there, and I do so on the basis of the advice I receive from SodM. The case doesn't get any easier if it has to be dealt with with with AMvBs. That is why I am voting in favour of this amendment. 56 detachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u79	Also in Limburg plays of course emerging groundwater, but this was actually meant for the situation in Twente at AkzoNobel and that you can sit with leakages for so long, without detecting. We are very concerned about that. That is why this amendment has been tabled. Does this change the way the Minister looks at this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u80	You don't solve that with an AMvB. You solve that by having the person who is transporting the production water and those who supervise it do what is necessary. They should take more specific locally targeted measures in terms of monitoring and monitoring. So you can't solve it with an AMvB. You will solve it by doing what is necessary as a licence holder and as the person who supervises it. That's where we need it from. That's what I'm focusing on. What is going on and what conclusions must be drawn from it. We don't solve it with an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mrs. Mulder briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u82	We are concerned that it has not worked sufficiently. We are now in favour of a change to the Mining Act and we now have the opportunity to tighten things up. I am therefore simply tabling the amendment. Well, then we're gonna evaluate it in five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u83	I understand Mrs Mulder's desire to respond to the situation in Twente, but that response will have to be different if you are to achieve results. I just tried to point that out. I advise against doing so via an AMvB, because that does not really lead to a material solution. I come to the amendment to item No. 57 (34348) by Agnes Mulder c.s. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. 44 replaces. This stipulates that the Minister of EZ must send the annual reports of the Mining Council and the Soil Movement Technical Committee with a written response to the Chamber. I do that already with the SodM annual report. That goes to the Chamber every year. There will be a written response. If the House wishes to follow the same procedure with regard to the annual reports of the Mines Council and the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, I have no objection to that. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 58 (34348) by Agnes Mulder c.s. regulates that in any case an analysis of the measurements should be part of the reporting on the measurement of the soil movement. Under the law, a mining company must carry out measurements before the start of mining operations, during mining operations and for up to 30 years after the end of mining operations in view of the possibility of movement of the soil. So before you win, while you win and then 30 more years, you have to take measurements under Article 41 of the Mining Act. The General Measure of Management of the Mining Decision lays down rules on those measurements and their reporting. The amendment stipulates that the reporting must include an analysis of the measurements. The SodM also made a recommendation on this in the annual report. I intend to lay down these rules by ministerial regulation. That means that I have no objection to it if the Chamber makes that statement by amendment. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I come to the amendments relating to legislative proposal 34390. The first is the amendment to item No. 8 (34390) by Mr Smaling. That says that there is a need for a geo-team, an independent, internationally oriented, multidisciplinary, scientific group that should be involved. I have confidence in the knowledge, skill and independence of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. This means that there is the expertise we need for this work. If that committee finds that it does not have that expertise and wants to use it, then provision will be made for it. I think we've already made the case very complex with a lot of organizations. It is not good then to set up a new committee of experts by law and to give them a legal basis in the busy field that is already there at the moment. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 8 (34390) by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u84	A new amendment has been tabled to this amendment. That is the amendment to item No. 18 (34390). The list of amendments we have on both legislative proposals is a growth document.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u85	It has really been one of the main recommendations of the Research Council for Security to set up a completely independent research programme with people from outside who have no ties with the oil industry, such as people at the Tcbb, the SodM and the NAM. Everyone's worked at Shell once. They are already at the gate of TU Delft to pick up the students. I understand that, but it's a small circuit in which everyone has a connection to the troublemaker. So this is an opportunity to put together such a team. With all due respect, in 2014 I saw five advices from the Tcbb in which zero earthquake damage was awarded; there is just no unit that makes people think in Groningen: well, boys, with that Tcbb things are going to work out a bit. So do this, because there are people who have that knowledge, but they are not all in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u86	I find Mr Smaling's statement with regard to the Tcbb very unpleasant. It is a committee in which great expertise has been collected and which is doing the work very seriously. If, in certain cases, the results do not lead to satisfaction in Groningen, I do not think that this should be a reason for Mr Smaling to disqualify the entire Tcbb. I have no disagreement with Mr Smaling on the independent research programme that should be available. The Research Council for Security, the Chamber and I are absolutely of the opinion that it is fine that the NAM should carry out all kinds of investigations, but that separate, independent investigations should also be carried out. So we are going to set up a research programme of this kind. We will set up a committee to direct it. It gathers the expertise to which Mr Smaling refers. That is going to happen, but Mr Smaling wants a separate geo-team to be hung under the Tcbb and that is something else. I do not think that we are physically far apart, because of the form Mr Smaling chooses, I reject his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u87	For the sake of order and for the people who read along, it might be good to point out that we are now dealing with the Provenging Gas extraction Bill Groningen and its amendments. Nine amendments to the other legislative proposal have now been tabled. They will later be given an opinion by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u88	Are there nine of them now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u89	Yeah, there's nine of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm gonna take a deep breath and get on with it, Mr. Chairman. However, I see that Mr Smaling is standing at the interrupting microphone and I do not like to ignore him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u91	Excuse me. I give the floor to Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u92	I'm sorry about that. From a legal point of view, we have chosen to do so as proposed to the Minister. Otherwise, you'd have to get the Tccb out of that law all the way, and that wasn't my approach. From a legal point of view, I chose to offer it this way. I hope that the Minister has also understood that. It's not like we want to make things harder than we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u93	In the run-up to the second term of the Chamber, I will see whether what we are doing with an independent research programme and what Mr Smaling is aiming at can be coordinated and whether a provision in the law may still be needed. I shall perhaps come back to that in my second term. I come to the following amendment. That is an amendment tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren to item No. 11 (34390).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u94	That amendment also lapsed. It has been replaced by another amendment to item No. 19 (34390). So perhaps it would be more useful if you continued with the amendment on item No. 12 (34390).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u95	I will, Madam President. I'm glad you're watching it all so closely. That helps me a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thanks to the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u97	This amendment tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren to item No. 12 (34390) deals with the area of impact in which evidence is suspected. So we're talking about Groningen. I would like to define that area of impact in a ministerial arrangement, but Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren say that this should be done through a general measure of governance with a backsliding. I will determine the area of impact on the basis of scientific insights. Knowledge of the Groningen earthquakes is constantly evolving. New studies and experiences allow me to make an ever better assessment of the impact area. For the sake of flexibility, I have chosen to do so in the case of ministerial arrangements. I have absolutely no intention of passing through the Chamber. I intend to make that clear to the Chamber in advance and to give it the opportunity to discuss it with me and to express an opinion on it once I have laid down it in a ministerial arrangement. The approach chosen is mainly designed to respond adequately to developments without trying to keep the Court out of sight. The AMvB takes considerably more time in the procedure and is not, in material terms, an improvement on my proposal. That is why I reject this amendment by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u98	On this point, Mr Jan Vos and a number of other Members have also tabled an amendment. Our amendment is linked to this and may be withdrawn. It is part of the discussion on this point: do we all want the same thing, namely as much legal certainty as possible for the people in Groningen and as much speed as possible? As a signal to the Minister, I would say that our amendment may still be dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u99	All right, I will take Mrs van Veldhoven's view into account when I come to Mr Jan Vos' amendment. The amendment tabled by Mr Klever in part No. 16 (34390) was tabled to replace the amendment on item No. 13. Mrs. Klever says that for the suspicion of evidence, the entire province of Groningen should come into the picture. In this information, the Council of State indicated that if, in a large number of similar cases, it is established that by far the majority of these cases can be attributed to one particular cause, this could be an argument for a presumption of evidence. I've already explained my objections to the suspicion of evidence a few times, and I'm keeping it. However, I asked for information from the Council of State, who said that in that situation it could be an argument for a suspicion of proof. That is what I have followed in my proposal. The amendment removes the link between the number of cases of damage and the suspicion of evidence. It's not about the number of damages anymore, it's about county boundaries. This is not in line with the advice and reasoning of the Council of State. So I can't take care of it. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u100	The contour map creates a lot of discussions. In the case of people who are excluded, damage is not recorded. I'm a little afraid we'll get those discussions again when we point out an impact area smaller than the province of Groningen. Such an amendment and such a law are of interest to people living on the edges. Can the Minister take part in this argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u101	Then the same goes for what I said to Mrs Van Veldhoven. I take this into account in my response to Mr Vos's amendment. I understand how Mrs Klever means to do so and try to deal with it in my immediate response to the second amendment, Jan Vos c.s. in piece No. 17 (34390), which is intended to replace earlier amendments, including those in part No. 15. This amendment states that the presumption of evidence, as originally expressed by Mr Jan Vos and Mrs Ouwehand, applies to physical damage to buildings and works which, by its nature, could be reasonably damage due to soil movement by the extraction of gas from the Groningen field. The amendment states that the reasoning of the presumption of evidence can be maintained, but that it is not necessary to determine the area for which this applies by ministerial regulation. The intention is to establish by law that if there is physical damage to buildings and works which by its nature can reasonably be the result of soil movement resulting from the extraction of gas from the Groningen field, the evidence should apply. The amendment therefore abolishes the regulation I have proposed by means of a ministerial regulation which establishes an area of impact. That would no longer be necessary, because it would then be legally regulated in this way. I believe that this amendment is a reasonable effect of what the Chamber originally intended to do in the area of evidence on the initiative of Mr Vos and Mrs Ouwehand. As a rule, we have referred to this as a reversal of the burden of proof. I think it's a reasonable effect. If the Chamber is in favour of doing so in this way, I will not oppose it. I am also thinking of what Mrs Klever and Mrs Van Veldhoven have just said. I shall therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. Madam President, I am through with the amendments. I understand that nine new amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u102	And two more amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u103	Two more. That's 11 in total. This brings the total number of amendments to somewhere in the 70s, of which more than 40 are now to be dealt with by me. If it is all right with you, I will go and read the new amendments and put forward a view on them. Then I'll share it with the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u104	Would it be okay if the meeting was suspended for five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u105	No, I can't. For 11 amendments, I need a little less than half an hour. Maybe I can do it in 20 minutes, but I can't do it faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-5.u106	In that case, I'll suspend the meeting for lunch. We'll be back at 1:30. Then you can share with us the assessment of the amendments that have not yet been discussed.
