ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. Ms Mulder, the first spokesperson, noted that the Procurement Act dates from 2012. She is right in that 2012 is in the title of the law, but this law entered into force on 1 April 2013. We are sitting before 1 April, so within three years this law has already been fully evaluated and amended. I think we are very quick to keep a close eye on this law, which we all thought was important, and to see how things are going in practice and what we can do to make the law work even better. We have implemented both the amended European directives with this law and the conclusions we have drawn from the evaluation. The original 2012 Procurement Act, which therefore entered into force on 1 April 2013, included the implementation of two European Directives. Those directives apply to procurement above the European thresholds. We may now be able to face up to each other that these thresholds were not conceived in Brussels, by the European Commission, but that they are part of international global agreements made within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO). That's where rules have been agreed. They were then translated into Europe, exactly in line with what was agreed on a global basis. We have talked in Europe about whether we might introduce a different threshold level, but it turned out that most Member States were not prepared to do so. The Netherlands has tried, but other Member States were not prepared to do so. That means we're not getting anywhere with that right now. There is no point in having a lobby for that either, because it has been agreed that the thresholds will be reviewed once every three years. So that happens in a few years. That is also the opportunity for us to look back at these thresholds; at the moment we simply have to accept them as a fact. In the Netherlands, therefore, we have followed the European procurement rules with our Procurement Act. With regard to procurement below the thresholds, the Netherlands has the ambition to ensure access for entrepreneurs, especially SMEs, to public procurement, and to ensure that the burden is reduced, especially for businesses but also for public authorities. We also want to create more room for strategic objectives, such as innovation and sustainability, and contribute to reducing corruption and efficient use of public funds. I think that we in the Netherlands should talk with restraint about corruption. I can also say that, I think, because I have been professionally involved in this subject in the past. The Netherlands is not a corrupt country and the Dutch government is not corrupt. This does not mean that there are no cases of corruption or that there are no people, including in public services, who are corrupt, but fortunately these are exceptions. The culture in the Netherlands is different. If we get signals that there's reason to pay extra attention to something or that there's reason to tackle individuals, we have to do so. That's what we need to be focused on. Fortunately, the culture in the Netherlands is so that this happens. This Procurement Act can thus contribute to reducing corruption, but we have to face up to the fact that corruption in the Netherlands is limited. We should be happy about that. We certainly need to keep it that way or improve it even further. That was the 2012 Procurement Act, which entered into force in 2013. The two directives on the basis of which we have made that law have now been amended. A third directive, a new concession directive, has also been added. We have amended the new Procurement Act, which has only been in place for a few years, one-on-one on the basis of those amended directives and the new directive. This means that we have looked at what choices we made for the Procurement Act in 2012 and 2013 and how we can make the choices left open for us in the new directives in such a way that they are in line with what we agreed with each other in the Procurement Act at the time. That's exactly what I did here. There are two additional points which are not reflected in those directives. The first is the point that was also endorsed by Mr Ziegs, namely that we have taken the registration period from six to ten days, in particular to give SMEs a little more opportunity to do the necessary work if they want to register for a tender. This has emerged from the evaluation and has been included in the legislative proposal. The second is that we also allow contracting authorities to state below the European thresholds that the specifications have been drawn up taking into account the obligations relating to employment protection and working conditions. Mr Monasch has put this forward and has previously done so by means of a motion in the Upper House. I would not be surprised if Mr Monasch's party was involved. In any case, we have incorporated it into this bill. I have heard quite a few critical noises from Members of Parliament who said that the law did not deliver exactly what we thought, especially for SMEs. I was very surprised that some spokesmen put this forward, because the evaluation shows that in the period between 2012/2013, when the law came into force, and the moment of the review in 2015, i.e. one and a half, two years later, cost savings of EUR 184 million have been achieved on an annual basis. This is a huge cost reduction that has largely been achieved by industry. We can be very pleased that that law has achieved this. The changes we are about to make on the occasion of the amended European directives, the new European directive and our evaluation will result in further cost savings of EUR 5.4 million. This is also largely the case for business. I am also surprised that MPs have spoken critically about the involvement of SMEs. What happened here wouldn't have helped much. Between April 2013, when the new law started, and at the end of 2014, the number of awards to SMEs, i.e. the number of tenders won by SMEs, increased from 59% to 63%. I think that is a considerable step forward in that short period of time. We must be happy about this and try to hold on to it, without thinking that 'large business' is a dirty word. Large companies also have great social significance. I therefore believe that we should defend the interests of these companies, but that we should always pay particular attention to the smaller companies and SMEs. That's what we've done here. This has produced important results for small and medium-sized enterprises. They benefit from the cost savings and from the system of the new law, which results in them having a higher percentage than they had before. So I'm positive about that law. I think it turned out okay. The evaluation has also been carried out very carefully. We have had three external, independent agencies look into the matter. We have also looked very closely at the development of justice. On this basis, the evaluation has finally been completed and we have drawn up the document that is now before the Chamber. There is a very careful evaluation after a short time, which has produced good results. Mrs Gesthuizen recalled that I promised a letter earlier about better procurement, but I haven't come up with that letter yet. She's right; I promised that letter before the end of the year. The letter isn't here yet, but I've come a long way with it. I have looked in particular at the way in which I can make good agreements with economic operators and contracting authorities on the best way of awarding contracts. I have come to the conclusion, also at the suggestion of VNO-NCW, that we can best organise procurement at regional level. The good intentions we have with the law must be fulfilled in practice. It is best to do this in the region, because that is where the contracting authorities and the entrepreneurs sit. They can discuss with each other which things go well, which things can be better and how agreements can be made. I intend to set up a driver there, with a number of people he's going to work with. I have now approached that blower and I am now working with him to work it out. In the short term, let us say that before the end of this month, I expect to inform the Chamber of what exactly will be done in order to better fill it in. I am very motivated to do so. It is very good to have beautiful national rules, but it always comes down to practice. In practice, we can succeed if we organise good cooperation. We have already made a great deal of profit, and I have just said that, but I think that we can take even more profit if we continue to do so in this way. I now turn to the main points raised by the various spokesmen. It will then become clear whether I have left a number of points. You've given me a quarter to seven. I'll see how far I can get to that moment. I have already said something about the involvement of SMEs. To Mrs Mulder, but also to other spokesmen who have spoken specifically about SMEs, including Mr Monasch, I intend to follow that very closely. We now have a picture of the awards that have gone to SMEs. I also want to see exactly how SMEs are involved in the tenders so that we can compare them. The European Commission has made provision for all European figures to be supplied to it. The European Commission can therefore provide very detailed information on the practice of procurement and the involvement of SMEs. I intend to join the three-yearly cycle of the European Commission, which brings me to the Chamber with relevant information. In this way, the Chamber can monitor developments. Mr Graus thinks that we should protect our own Dutch companies from the evil European outside world. I think this would be very unwise. The Netherlands removes 80% of exports in the countries of the European Union. This means that our companies are strong in exports and strong in Europe. So if we in Europe can ensure good procurement rules that are followed, then this offers opportunities for companies from other countries in the Netherlands, but also for Dutch companies in other countries. Experience has shown that the Netherlands always benefits more from other countries in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u2	It's not necessarily true that the Minister says. We are the largest net contributor per capita. We think differently and fortunately a lot of companies do too. The Minister talks about the great evil world outside Europe. We are not against Europe. I didn't say anything about that in my contribution either. We are in favour of Europe, pro-Europe, and against the EU. We don't want to be a province of Brussels. I want that to be well in the Acts. I just asked you to do a little more for your own companies. I don't think it's crazy at all, your own people and your own companies first. And own minis first, like I said. That's not so bad at all. It's okay to be a little more patriot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr Graus says that what I say is completely wrong and then he says that the Netherlands is the largest net contributor in Europe. That has zero point zero to do with each other. I said that the Netherlands is a very strong exporting country. We are, I believe, the fifth exporting country in the world. Our companies are strong on the international market. 80% of their exports go to other countries in Europe. This means that if our businesses are given fair opportunities in Europe through European procurement rules, they will benefit from them abroad. The Dutch entrepreneurs and the Dutch workers therefore have an interest in this. I have said that, on the basis of past experience, I estimate that the European procurement rules give the Netherlands more money than they cost the Netherlands. Mr Graus says he did not say that. He said, however, that he thinks that we should favour our own companies. If we favour our own companies and make it possible for other countries in Europe to do the same, Dutch companies have fewer opportunities in other countries, and that is bad for Dutch entrepreneurs and for Dutch employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u4	We do not need the European Union for free trade agreements at all. Not at all, not at all. Switzerland had a free trade agreement with China rather than the European Union as a whole. Let me just say that. Within the European Union, we are among the largest net contributors, I said per capita. That's just a fact. I'm also a spokesman for the primary sector. All you hear is complaints about obstacles from the EU. They don't see any benefits at all, really. This trade has nothing to do with the European Union. That has nothing to do with it. We can also arrange free trade agreements ourselves. We don't need Brussels for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u5	I have already said that being a net contributor really has zero point zero to do with this. I didn't talk about free trade agreements. The European Union is a single internal market and we have an interest in it. I have just explained why we have a great interest in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u6	Where else does the Minister see opportunities to further reduce the requirements in the procurement procedures for SMEs? The Minister says here that, contrary to the story put forward in the Chamber today, there are still quite a few challenges. Our question to him is how he sees that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u7	I will deal with the various questions and comments that have been made. Mrs Mulder asks what opportunities I see for SMEs to bring in even more. I have already said that SMEs have benefited to a very large extent from the 184 million reduction in charges achieved in a few years by the Procurement Act. This is all pure profit for SMEs, which they have taken from it. Their share in that is great. I said that the percentage of SME awards has increased from 59 to 63 in less than two years. So I think that SMEs are doing well. It cannot, of course, bring in the assignments for the successors of the submarines, the Walrus. Of course you can't. However, SMEs can make a lot of money. We have drafted the law and the Guide Proportionality in such a way that contracting authorities have to offer a wide range of opportunities for SMEs each time. We should continue to do so in particular. The proportionality guide has been established and will now be amended as a result of the amendment of the law. If new developments emerge from the whole process of better procurement that can lead to improvements in the Guide proportionality, we will certainly implement them. The proportionality guide is therefore aimed at ensuring that SMEs are always looked at, not at the expense of SMEs, but at small businesses. We started with that guide and that law. The first results are there. We need to continue as I've just tried to point out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u8	I am trying to make it clear to myself whether the Minister is saying that we are doing everything perfectly and that we are doing all right, or that he is still seeing opportunities for improvement. One of the things it might be in is EMVI (economically most advantageous tender). How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u9	I never think it's all right. I just think that we are trying to do as well as possible, that we must constantly look at whether we can and should do better. In the case of this Procurement Act, I have had a very comprehensive evaluation carried out within two years. It's designed to see what can be done better. I have completely translated the new European directives into the spirit of the Procurement Act that we already had. I have attracted a driver for better procurement, who will work with his team in the regions on improvements. I am constantly interested in improvements, especially in favour of SMEs. As far as EMVI is concerned, we had two options in the system of our old law: procurement based on the lowest price and procurement based on EMVI. I do not need to explain this anymore, as the spokesmen have already done so extensively. In the new European directives there is a slightly different approach. They have said: everything is EMVI, both the lowest price and the best price-quality as well as the lowest cost. But I don't think the lowest price is EMVI. I only find best price-quality and lowest costs EMVI, where you not only take into account the purchase but also the follow-up to that purchase. For example, you buy a printer but if you have to buy very expensive fillings afterwards, then the original price may be good but it still gets wrong with those fillings. When purchasing, you also take into account all the costs afterwards. Those last two, best price-quality and lowest costs, are both EMVI. That is what we are giving the attention that the Chamber has advocated. With the Zieggens/Veegte amendment (32440, No. 25) was introduced at the time that the preferred option should be to EMVI. This will continue to be the case in the new set-up, in which EMVI, in the European Commission's system from now on, consists of both best price-quality and lowest costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u10	I understand that this may be the European way of thinking, but I do not agree with that. With that second award option, that second criterion, we move away from what the Chamber has always meant by EMVI, namely the most economically advantageous tender where your price and quality are equal. I don't understand the Minister's explanation, because I don't think you do anymore when you say: I look not only at the costs when buying but also at the costs in later years. What does that have to do with the quality? I get it. I have also bought a cheap printer myself with eventually expensive cartridges, but I do not see what the discussion about costs has to do with quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u11	The new version of the EMVI is concerned with the best value for money but also with the lowest cost. Then you don't look at the lowest price but at what it all costs for the person who issues the order. That's what you get in the picture. That is a variant that we did not come up with but which is mandatory in that directive. We'll translate that. We find that best price-quality and lowest costs are both in the spirit of EMVI as we originally intended. On the other hand, purely deciding on the lowest purchase price. We make that distinction: the lowest price on one side and those two inserts of EMVI on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u12	This already sounds a bit like we're not gonna agree, because the Minister repeats what he just said. Perhaps he will come to the House when the amendments are being discussed, but how does he intend to ask for justification in the case of a cost-effectiveness award in order to prevent the second award criterion being used only to steer at the lowest price?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u13	Of course, asking for a statement of reasons provides additional work, both for the contracting authority and for the economic operators involved. I think we should be careful with extra demands. We have already laid down a lot of additional requirements in the Procurement Act. On the one hand, we believe that the administrative burden and the regulatory burden should be reduced, but on the other hand we come up with a lot of rules in the Procurement Act, because we think that is what is needed with each other. The Chamber has added a number of points to this. If we look at the lowest costs, a system proposed by the European directive, which is intended not only to look at the lowest price, but to treat all the costs associated with a tender procedure in the same way as the lowest price, we impose unnecessary regulatory pressure. That has no added value and that is why I am not in favour of it. I shall come back to this later on with a specific proposal. Mrs Mulder has asked if I am prepared to include improvements that are being made in the proportionality guide. She also mentioned two professors who, in her view, had proposed improvements. The proportionality guide lends itself only to provisions relating to proportionality. As far as suggestions have been made to improve this, they have, of course, been reflected in the evaluation. The writing group, which is now going to adapt the Guide on proportionality to the new law, will certainly look at all the proposals in this respect and consider how we can benefit from them in the context of this guide. Suggestions that go beyond proportionality are not included in the Guide Proportionality. All relevant suggestions are involved in the evaluation. Three external investigation offices have carried out evaluations, with extensive interviews with the entire field. Everything that was relevant, including from professors, has been in the picture. That's what we've had the evaluation for. Mrs Mulder asked whether the requirements in the procurement procedures are proportionate and whether there are figures on disproportionate requirements for SMEs. One of the points in the Guide Proportionality is that no procedure is chosen that does not correspond to the scope of the contract. So you have complicated procedures for complicated assignments, but if you have simple assignments, you also have simple procedures. It's also about the demands you make on tenderers. You should not impose disproportionate requirements that exclude companies, when there is no good ground for that. How to do that is in the Guide Proportionality. The deadlines are also set. If you're a big company, you can react quickly. A small company needs a little more time for that. The proportionality guide also establishes a relationship between the complexity of contracts and the time limit to be set for replies. This is regulated in the Guide Proportionality. The evaluation shows that the proportionality of contracting entities has increased and that the number and gravity of the suitability requirements are also evolving as intended. This has been mapped out in the evaluation, but it is not the case that we can now make clear to the Chamber exactly what is proportional and what is disproportionate. In the end, you can only judge this when an entrepreneur receives an assignment. We are trying to assess this in advance on the basis of experience. We are also looking at how these demands can best be formulated. On the basis of these experiences and what has been established by the writing group, which has drawn up the Guide on Proportionality, the practice has to prove itself again. On the basis of evaluations, we can then regularly look at how this is developing and whether adjustments are still needed. Mrs Mulder also addressed the thresholds. In the very first part of my first term, I have already addressed this. Mrs Mulder and others also spoke about the possibility of including fees for tender costs. I noticed that Mr Monasch was reluctant to do so. I share that reluctance because you end up setting up fees before you know it in an atmosphere you don't want. I understand that there are quite a few people who, under the Public Administration Act, make as many requests as possible in the hope that municipalities make a mistake in the processing of these WOB applications, which means that they owe them a fine. That'll make money. You could imagine that's what you're gonna get with this. You're in as many registrations as you can. The quality of what you do matters less. If you don't get the assignment, you'll get a fee. We shouldn't have you making money out of that, too. It all has to be realistic. If you used to want to get an assignment from the government as an entrepreneur, you had to look at all the regional newspapers across the country, in which the governments were obliged to put advertisements. You had to go check out all those papers to find out what was going on. Now all this is electronically accessible. You can just go to a website, the TenderNed dearly loved by Mrs Gesthuizen, on which you get an insight into what is available for registrations. As an entrepreneur, you can respond to that. For the entrepreneur this offers a lot more market opportunities, but it also ensures that the costs for him or her are much lower. In this way, the costs for entrepreneurs are reduced and opportunities increased. An entrepreneur makes the assessment of whether he has a chance at an invitation to tender. If he thinks he is, he'll do his best. If he doesn't, he's out of luck and he'll have to try to do better next time. However, if the contracting authority is to be blamed, a different way of reacting is required. If the contracting authority asks for something complicated for which a fee should reasonably be payable, it should also be provided. This is regulated in the Guide Proportionality. If the contracting authority first asks for tenders and then decides to cancel the case, companies have done work and incurred costs, but they have no chance of earning it back. In that case, compensation will also have to be given. The Guide Proportionality offers handles to do so. I think that's how we handled it. There is no possibility of abuse, but there is the possibility of obtaining fees in the event of errors by contracting authorities. Furthermore, we leave the real risks to entrepreneurs, and that is what we should be doing in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u14	Sure, I agree with that last one. However, the Proportional Guide says the following about tender fees: when it is inevitable that comparatively significant costs will have to be incurred per tender, think of vision presentations, models and models, sketches or construction overcalculations, it is proportionate to give compensation to a tenderer for this. That is not only when a contracting authority suddenly withdraws a contract. This point in the Guide Proportionality is not or is not sufficiently respected. How does the Minister feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u15	I'll say a few words about compliance. On the other point, I would like to say the following. I have said that if a contracting authority asks for things from economic operators that require them to incur additional costs, it is reasonable that they should also be reimbursed. If an entrepreneur must inevitably incur new costs in order to be able to participate, there must also be compensation for this. Apart from this, if a contracting authority withdraws a tender at the last minute and has already incurred costs, there must also be a cost compensation. And as a contracting authority... I mentioned another example of this. That was when a contracting authority... there are two points I can get back now. One point is that it's inevitable that you're gonna incur costs to be able to participate. According to the Guide Proportionality, you have to get a fee for that. And if, secondly, the contracting authority withdraws a case which does not give the entrepreneur the opportunity to recover his costs, there must also be compensation for that. This is also provided for in the Guide on proportionality. I think we did a good job. Now Mrs Gesthuizen immediately asks: if this is not applied, what will happen next? We have a system for that. The Procurement Act and the procurement procedures are civil proceedings. In the Netherlands, it is so arranged that if you act contrary to the law, there is a judge to correct that. At the time, the Procurement Act also pointed out by the organized entrepreneurs that they would like it to go through the courts, because the judge can intervene very quickly. It can already say on-going an invitation to tender: something is not going well; I come up with a provisional provision and I think that this should be done. The judge can therefore act quickly in such cases if necessary. So we have the judge to act if we need to. Secondly, we have the Commission of Procurement Experts. There a complaint can be made if an entrepreneur believes that something has not gone well. The Commission of Procurement Experts shall give a ruling thereon. If that judgment is not followed, the party thereby disadvantaged shall have the opportunity to go to court. Well, of course, he's strong with the judge. Furthermore, the issues set out in the Procurement Act determine whether or not a public service acts lawfully. If a public service does not act lawfully, then the order in the case of the State is the General Court of Auditors. There are also auditors who check the documents of water boards, provinces and municipalities, or an audit service, which some of the local authorities also have. They are there to say that something has happened that is not lawful. That is where they lay their finger. Finally, a complaint may be lodged with the European Commission in the case of tenders above the European thresholds. If something is not going well, then there are plenty of opportunities to stand up to it. However, the first possibility is always that you can go to the contracting authority itself. We live in a neat country. All governments are democratically controlled. Governments usually do their best and can respond to complaints. If you do not respond well, then the other possibilities I have just mentioned are open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u16	I thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive answer to my first question, but I still have a follow-up question. Then there is not so much light between the Minister and I. We agree on this. The minister also corrected himself. He no longer talks about "additional costs" that an entrepreneur makes, but about "costs." In addition, he says that the proportionality guide includes that in a number of cases, if work is to be done, you should be compensated for this. I am happy that entrepreneurs can go to court, but the problem is that this should be done far too often. It is much better if we agree on a way in which we want it. The contracting authorities would then have to comply with this. Finally, I would like to briefly point out to the Minister that the VNG writes that such costs fall under the entrepreneurial risk. The VNG states that companies also do not charge these costs together. That concerns me, because it indicates that the contracting authorities do not want to pay for that kind of thing. How does the Minister feel about that? What possibilities does he see, apart from the fact that entrepreneurs can still go to court in the last instance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u17	I agree with the VNG. If you're gonna get an assignment as an entrepreneur, I think you should take a look at all this. There are thousands of assignments in this country and you make a selection. With a number of assignments you think you have a good chance and then you try to get those assignments. That's just your entrepreneurial risk. Those are your entrepreneurial costs. In the event that a contracting authority says that a model must be added and that everything still needs to be done, additional costs must be incurred. I think it is reasonable, then, that a fee should be fixed for this by applying the Guide on Proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u18	I would like to address this point and the point raised by the Minister in his reply to Mrs Gesthuizen's question. Let us say that a contracting authority itself is making a mess of it. I charge it for a moment and a lot of tenders do not go through, while the companies are all doing their best. There is a possibility of getting some kind of compensation for that, but then those companies that go through the courts will have to find out. According to the Minister, is there another form possible, so the settlement of some kind of compensation in general through the House of Representatives? Is it possible, if a contracting authority really does not do it properly, to make up for a form of compensation without requiring a judge to do so directly? This also allows you to improve the quality of the government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u19	We are talking about public authorities in this country. Contracting entities are public services. They are all democratically controlled. If something goes wrong somewhere like this, you can go to the Lower House, the City Council or Provincial States and have them intervene. That's how it works in our country. I do not think it is conceivable that we should organise anything else for this than I have just said. I have also said that there are already many possibilities for correction. The creation of a separate authority to control the whole of 60 billion in assignments which Mr Verhoeven has emphasized, I believe, four or five times over, and to act as a kind of supervisor of municipalities and provinces, is not conceivable in our system. I do not think it is right to do this in a practical way either. Moreover, it is not necessary, because the possibilities I have just mentioned are sufficient. Mrs Mulder gives an extreme example, namely that a public service is making a big deal of it. I think that in such a case the judge will not be involved at all, because then there is a Mrs Mulder who raises this in the Lower House, in the province or municipality. Then the parliament will correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u20	Is the Minister prepared to make it clear how often tenders go wrong in this way? In this way we can see how often, for example in a year, things go wrong. Then perhaps we can discuss with each other whether general compensation is good. Does the Minister think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u21	No, because I don't see it as a big problem. However, I am prepared to see if this could be a point of interest in a subsequent evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u22	The Minister said at a certain point that an entrepreneur who believes that he has been disadvantaged in some way in the route by having to incur additional costs can go to the Commission of Procurement Experts. I remember, however, a relatively topical case in which this committee gave a very urgent opinion, which was thrown into the wind by the cabinet. It was said that it was only a committee that advises and that the opinion does not always have to be followed. With a steel face, that was reported at the time. Now the Minister in the same room reports that this committee, to which he does not always listen, is the escape route for entrepreneurs. Isn't that kind of the businessman with a rug on his head, or didn't I get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u23	I've listed a variety of possibilities. I won't repeat them all. It starts with the fact that you can complain to the contracting authorities. Then there are a number of other possibilities. The Commission of Procurement Experts is one of the possibilities. If you have a complaint about a tender, you can take that complaint to the committee. The committee can make a ruling. If that ruling is not followed and you disagree, you can turn to the judge and make a ruling. The judge's ruling must be adhered to. So I think we've arranged it in a good way. I do not have the case referred to by Mr Verhoeven. I don't know if the other party has taken advantage of the opportunity to go to court. That doesn't suit me. However, I believe that we should not base our assessment of the overall situation on one incident in the Empire. The system of first complaining to the contracting authority, then to the Commission of Procurement Experts and finally to go to court if the judgment is not complied with seems to me to be a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u24	I'm not talking about an incident. I am talking about small companies who also want to get something out of the 60 billion pot, because they have a good product and can help the government with an innovative product or service. First they run into the municipality, which is very often inclined to throw all the assignments into one big pile and turn them into one super mission, which mainly goes to large companies. That's what we read in the evaluation. In addition, a lot of entrepreneurs have to deal with the municipality or the province that asks them for something extra; that is what they deliver and then the assignment doesn't go through. They did come up with a model, a brochure or some other innovative thing. They then have to go to a committee, which the cabinet has said can ignore its advice. At least that was said at the scanstraat, which resulted in a lot of discussion in the Lower House. We have discussed it extensively with the Minister and he has said time and again that he ignored the committee's advice and that he could do so because he was the minister. I do not have any complaints about the expertise of the Minister, but I do have complaints about how SMEs can achieve their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u25	With the image that Mr Verhoeven paints, I really do disagree. 63% of the awards have been awarded by SMEs. That's almost two thirds. Moreover, it appears that a total of 184 million costs have been saved over a period of less than two years, for the most part by business and within it by SMEs. SMEs have therefore benefited directly from it. We have established in the law that clusters are not allowed. I'll get to that later. You can't merge. We have also arranged a lot of other things to ensure that SMEs get a good picture. On the example of the model, I have already said that a reasonable remuneration must be paid if there is something special to be asked for in the procurement procedure on top of what is reasonable. This is done in accordance with the proportionality guide, which has also been created to protect SMEs. I really think that Mr Verhoeven is giving the wrong picture of reality here. Mrs Mulder spoke of a list of hallmarks, as she calls it. This would also make it difficult for SMEs. That's not true. A label is often intended to provide opportunities for SMEs. If you have a quality mark, you no longer have to demonstrate individually that you have the necessary qualities to be able to participate. You've got the hallmark, and that'll get you done right away. In addition, the quality mark is handled very carefully. Indeed, a label is only accepted in the case of tenders if what is regulated in the label corresponds exactly to what is required in the procurement procedure. So it has to be one-on-one possible. It is also true that SMEs who do not have the label are allowed to participate. It can then have a similar quality mark. He can also prove that he meets the requirements. Trade marks therefore do not play a major role. Insofar as they play a role, they do not harm SMEs. Mrs Mulder referred to the Secretary of State of VWS who, as she says, lays down its own procurement rules in the context of care. She questioned me critically about that. Mr Monasch said that this should be done much more. I think the truth is in the middle. What the Secretary of State for VWS has done can be done entirely within the procurement procedures and procurement frameworks. He didn't break any procedure, rule or law. I am not in favour of determining this for everything. For example, we have regulated minimum wages and collective agreements in our country. In the procurement process, we have to stick to that whole. I do not think it is necessary to make further arrangements for this. The problems that arise within Europe, namely that people from outside the Netherlands are brought here by detours to work for too low wages, are in the picture. My colleague from Social Affairs and Employment is in the process of providing an adequate response from the cabinet. In the context of procurement, there is no need to regulate more than we already do. We already deal very much in the area of procurement. I also think that we have found a proper balance so far. It can be seen that a lot of work goes to SMEs, that there is growth in SMEs and that very high cost savings have been achieved. Mrs Mulder, like others, spoke about clustering and merging, which is the same thing. We can't ban clusters, because we've already banned them. The law says you can't cluster. It says that orders should not be unnecessarily merged. There is also a provision that contracts should be divided into lots if possible. So split up should be possible, and merge should only be necessary. There is always a possibility of discussing what is and is not necessary. We have framed this as well as possible with the law and with the Guide Proportionality. There may also be a judge's test over it. I therefore think that we have settled the matter well on that point. If we're going to do a big job, we're going to have to realize the following. I have already mentioned the submarines, but there are many more such big jobs to think of which large companies are logically the first to qualify. It is conceivable that a number of SMEs work together and tackle it together. For example, in a large job, an SME architect can make the plan, form a team of performers and sign up for such a project together with them. Mkb'ers are so jointly able to retrieve an assignment. For very large contracts, SMEs are not eligible at all because they are asking for things that a small company cannot do. Then there is the possibility to get a look at the sub-contractor. It's really not like subcontractors are always cut off. On the contrary, it is very often the case that subcontractors offer things that large companies need, making them very happy to have SMEs as subcontractors. In the field of clusters, therefore, what can be arranged is regulated by law. It's not allowed. Where can be split up, that must be done. In addition, SMEs have other opportunities to identify contracts, as I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u26	I see that you wish to interrupt, Mrs Mulder, but I would first like to know how far the Minister is going to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u27	I see I'm late; I'm sorry. I am not yet halfway there, because I am now at Mrs Gesthuizen's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u28	I give Mrs Mulder the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u29	The proportionality guide states that clusters are generally permitted in logically coherent, inextricably linked parts of assignments. What makes sense about what UWV is doing, for example, by clustering eight different services such as cleaning, greening and security? Surely this guide doesn't conform? If it is explained in this way, what is the Minister's view to be done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u30	I fully agree with Mrs Mulder. If this is clustering, it can't be. What can be done is that in the case of a tender, you combine several parts to be tendered into one large tender. Then a procedure is set up and then you put certain parts away. That could be the case here. However, I am not aware of this particular case. As Mrs Mulder describes it, I do not find it attractive. It seems to me that I need to look into that individual case and see if there is anything on which there should be action. I'm looking at it, but I'm saying clusters aren't allowed. And if there's any way to split up, so should we. It is possible that you may bring out different tenders together, but then entrepreneurs should be given a chance to subscribe to each of those parts. Once you stick catering, security and also green maintenance together, it becomes a weird picture. I need to look into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u31	In any case, thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u32	I give Mrs Mulder the opportunity to finish her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u33	Thanks for the Minister's at least picking this up, but of course the CDA is concerned about the wider context. This may be an example, but we're just hearing this a lot more. The question is whether, for example, such an authority as Mrs Gesthuizen has mentioned is helping. We need to get rid of this problem a little bit from the occasional examples that come to a minister, because it needs to be addressed in a broad sense. Such a clustering just really goes a few steps too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u34	Clustering must not be allowed and split up if possible. Mrs Mulder says she has many more examples of this kind. I don't have one. I think there may be a very good explanation for her example, but I think it is useful to look at it in the light of her words. I just wish the law would be upheld. The law says you can't cluster unnecessarily. So you can only cluster if you need to. Furthermore, you have to split into lots if you can. I wish to stick to that. I need Mrs Gesthuizen's input. I have already commented on her comments on better procurement. I have said a number of things about the lowest cost criterion which have not yet led to great satisfaction with Mrs Gesthuizen. A number of spokesmen spoke about the fact that there was first a statement of their own in the Netherlands and that there is now a mandatory uniform European procurement document. Mrs Gesthuizen has made some critical comments. We were at the forefront of Europe with that statement of our own. We'd already introduced it. This was then introduced in Europe and called it a single European tender document. There they originally had a design for which was quite different from what we had in the Netherlands. We have been able to correct that, so that there is now a result similar to what we had in the Netherlands and which also leads to very little extra costs. On balance, this amendment to the Procurement Act still leads to 5.4 million cost relief in addition to the 184 million we have already achieved. I therefore believe that the practice of the single European tender document is now well established. I think it's confusing for entrepreneurs to have to use one document for one tender and the other for another. That doesn't make it any easier for them. That is why we have chosen the line that we are now using this one mandatory uniform European procurement document, in a form that is acceptable to us, for the whole range of tenders. Mrs Gesthuizen also spoke about the Commission of Procurement Experts. She proposed to merge it with PIANOo to eventually turn it into an authority. I told you, I don't like that authority. Moreover, I do not see the need to combine the Commission of Procurement Experts, which must by definition be independent, with a public service, such as PIANoo. I don't see that combination that way either. However, I believe that the Commission of Procurement Experts, which is doing an important and good job, can be strengthened. She's got a lot of work to do. That's why a third expert has been appointed to the committee. In addition, the secretariat will be strengthened. She also gets the opportunity to hire experts to support in individual cases. In this way, therefore, I would like to further increase the effectiveness and the ability of the Commission of Procurement Experts to do good work. I think we have created a good provision with that committee and, in addition, our own knowledge centre with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u35	We are indeed hearing very positive noises from employers' organisations and industry organisations about the Commission of Procurement Experts. It's nice that she's gone from two to three experts, but it's still subcritical. It's a little club. When someone is on vacation, there are two left and then there can no longer be a quick response. We hear a lot of noises from employers, who would like to see the committee expanded further. In the light of next year's budget, is the Minister prepared to see if an increase in capacity is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u36	I think I'm going far. The committee goes from two to three and I offer the opportunity to attract external experts and to use them to strengthen them in individual cases. I will also strengthen the secretariat supported by EZ. In this way, I will make a package which I believe will make it possible for that committee to function properly. I will follow if that is really enough. If that's any different, I'll report it to the Chamber. Given what I have done now, it would not be good to go one step further now. Then we'll go beyond what's reasonably necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u37	I'd like to keep an eye on that report. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u38	Mrs Gesthuizen also spoke about TenderNed. We think differently about that. By the way, a very large proportion of the savings for business have been made through TenderNed. I believe, in my mind, that 39 million savings per year have been made for business through TenderNed. All information on public procurement will be made available on one website. Anyone can see what's going on. We set that up very well. The service is functioning well. The number of malfunctions has fallen significantly, as I announced. The system's improved. We are learning more and more how to improve it. I think that with TenderNed we have something really good in our hands to support business and offer opportunities to save costs. I think we should be happy with what we set up here. Ms Gesthuizen asked if TenderNed could apply the three new award criteria in good time. TenderNed will be ready in time for that. As soon as the bill enters into force, those adjustments to TenderNed will be there and business will be able to use them. Mrs Gesthuizen said that complaints about the use of TenderNed remain too long, but I am not aware of that. If I get that signal from Mrs Gesthuizen, I will pay attention to it, as with Mrs Mulder's signals. If it's anything interesting for the Chamber, I'll come back to the Chamber. Mr Bruins wondered whether the emergence of purchasing centres would not lead to unnecessary merging. You can't do that. You can't do that. If that were to happen, I would be against it. The aim of central purchasing bodies is absolutely not to merge contracts; the purpose of central purchasing centres is to consider whether the things that individual services all have to do, for which they all have to build expertise, cannot be done together. If you have a joint back office, contracting authorities can act exactly according to the rules and intentions of the law and the Guide Proportionality. Thus, purchasing centres take work out of the hands of the contracting authorities, but they absolutely must comply with all the conditions of the Procurement Act and the Guide Proportionality and thus also on clustering/merging, namely that this should only be allowed when it is really necessary. If there's any way to split up, it's got to be done. This also applies in full to central purchasing bodies. Mr Bruins said that award criteria are sometimes de facto the lowest price. He asked if I could maintain the weight of quality in procurement. In one case, figures shall be used and in the other case another assessment method shall be chosen. The PIANOo expertise centre already provides information on how to turn things into points and figures. I intend to give this further explicit consideration in the Better Contracting Parties project and to bring this further to the attention of the contracting authorities when we talk about it at regional level. I will also bring it to the attention of the Ministry of the Interior, so that it gets extra attention specifically for the government. In this way, I hope that Mr Bruins will be able to respond adequately to his concerns on this point. Mr Bruins also spoke about objectives which he would like to see formulated in terms of innovative procurement. I do not really intend to set out objectives for this. Contracting authorities should, in my opinion, be free to choose when to contract. Do they need more innovative work and more innovative supplies or services? They should not be prescribed this, but they should consider it important. They think that's important, too. Some tenders have nothing to do with that, so you do not have to pay attention to them. In other calls for tenders, that's exactly what needs to be done. It is up to the contracting authorities to take the right decisions. The law explicitly offers opportunities for buying in innovations. This will also receive extra attention from the PIANoo Centre of Expertise, which I have just mentioned, so that contracting authorities, if they are interested, can obtain the information they need to use the possibilities offered by the law. In my opinion, we should not set targets or percentages for innovation-oriented procurement, other than what is already being achieved by all public authorities, all contracting authorities. That is why innovation is important for our country, that the public authorities can play an important role in it, that buying-in is a means of doing so, and that attention should therefore be paid to the opportunities offered by buying-in. We encourage this through information and through possibilities in the law. That is the way we should do this. Mr Bruins has also asked whether I see the innovation partnership as an opportunity for pilots aimed at new forms of cooperation. That's absolutely true. I believe that the innovation partnership offers additional opportunities for contracting authorities. You can contact a company with which you will develop an innovative solution in an invitation to tender. If a company does that well, it is now possible for this company to be commissioned directly for the product to be delivered. There is therefore no need to follow a separate tender. So that really offers more opportunities for innovation. I believe that the innovation partnership is a good point in the European directive, which we are right to incorporate into our law. In addition to innovation, Mr Bruins also talked about sustainable procurement. We have discussed sustainable shopping in the Chamber before. In particular, my colleague, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, did so in autumn 2015. On the basis of this exchange of views with the Chamber, a Socially Responsible Procurement Plan was then drawn up. Last month, in an AO with the Chamber, the Secretary of State promised to inform the Chamber about the progress of the plan of action before the summer. I believe that this is also an opportunity to discuss with her the question of sustainable procurement, also in the light of the Procurement Act we are discussing today. Mr Bruins also spoke about the Commission of Procurement Experts. That's what I've been doing. The next spokesperson was Mr Monasch. He mentioned a few examples where it is actually not possible for SMEs to register. I've already gone into that. There are many possibilities to ensure that it is as much as possible. However, it is true that there are contracts where as an individual SME entrepreneur you do not get a real chance. This is the case, for example, when the Defence Department has a very large project that it regards as risky and where it does not want to depend on a supplier who delivers something and then says: do your best with it. Then it may be that the Defence Department wants the supplier to supply the product but also afterwards for a certain period of time does the maintenance at a pre-arranged price and also does the business. In such a case, it may be that the Defence Department wants to make one package of it, because it believes that it is best in this case, since, of course, the Defence Department has to deal with public money, tax money in a responsible way. I believe that we should give this opportunity to an organisation such as the Ministry of Defence, but also the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. It must not be the case to keep SMEs out of the door. It has to be proportional, we have the Guide Proportionality for that. But we should not rule out the possibility that in some cases it is the best method for the contracting authority and that it is also the best way for the contracting authority to handle tax money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u39	I'm listening with interest. With all due respect to the Minister, I feel that there is a bit of shopping in the arguments. What the Minister says can't be both. Of course, you're always looking for ways to handle taxpayers' money. But you can't say that one day you're fighting clustering and the other time you're putting forward an argument why Defence and Infrastructure and Environment are suddenly allowed to cluster all kinds of projects, or to tackle them big or to shape them with all kinds of maintenance contracts. The point is that there is a culture in which everyone can have a chance, especially in the case of public spending on businesses in the region. I think we're both looking for that. With 25-year maintenance contracts, you know that you make it almost impossible for small contractors to participate. The question is whether the culture of Defence, Infrastructure and the Environment, of the Tax Administration, of government organizations dealing with taxpayers' money generated by people in the region is such that they have that priority rather than just thinking about what's good for their own organisation and how to get what's best for their own culture. We've seen the example of UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u40	That is an important point of attention from Mr Monasch. It's two different things. He talks about clusters and bigger projects. I've already said that the law says that clusters are only allowed if they're really needed and you have to split up if you can split up. So that's different from what we're talking about right now. Now we're talking about having small projects and small orders, but also large projects and large orders. For large projects, it can be very logical, if you have to deal responsibly with taxpayers' money, to say that you do not want to leave it at the time of the purchase. It's very logical that you say that you want to have security for a longer period of time and that the person you give the purchase should then give certainty for a longer period of time. I can very well imagine a contracting authority doing so in large cases. But Mr Monasch's general point is right: it should only be done in cases where that is reasonable. It should not be designed to exclude unnecessarily small entrepreneurs and to prevent regional links. That is why I want to do two things. Firstly, I would like to raise this point in the regional consultations in the context of better procurement. Secondly, I think this is an important point for a further evaluation. Then we can see how it develops in practice. Between now and that next evaluation, I will continue to follow this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u41	In any case, I welcome that commitment. But I will come back to the example of the Ministry of Defence with the assignments about the real estate in Middelburg. There you can make a small assignment big. A local contractor could build a new barracks. However, if you expect him to mow the lawn over the next 25 years, do the maintenance and change the windows, you make the assignment so big that the contractor will drop out or no longer stand a chance. It is also a question of being convinced of the need to facilitate this as effectively as possible at local and regional level. In this case it is about defence, but several examples have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u42	In following what is happening here, I will also look at the concrete example that Mr Monasch mentions. That can be very illustrative. I'll see what happens there. I will also see whether there is any reason to understand with colleagues the intention of the law, the way in which action should be taken in the spirit and according to the culture of the law, where possible, and how it should be done differently. So I will follow this up and I will look into Mr Monasch's concrete example. In response to what Mr Monasch has said, I have already addressed in detail the involvement of SMEs and the granting or non-payment of fees. Mr Monasch also discussed innovation. I have said all that I need to say. In addition to the innovation partnership, which I have already mentioned, the procedure for the competitive dialogue that comes into our law through the European directive is also an important point. This means that contracting authorities can engage in dialogue with the participants selected by them on possible solutions. Participants are free to conclude during the dialogue that changes are necessary. Then they may also be applied. This is what the competitive dialogue is for. Mr Monasch went one step further. He said: if you have won a tender at some point and are allowed to perform a contract, but a few years later it comes to the conclusion that it can be cheaper and better in another way, you should actually have the opportunity to do so. I don't know about that. I will look into that situation more closely. I think you're at a certain risk. If you pull in an assignment, but then do it in a different way, other companies will say: if I had known that it could be done in a different way, I would have had all kinds of ideas about this too! So I think we should be careful about that. We have the ambition to allow public procurement not to be freedom, happiness, but to proceed according to strict rules of the Procurement Act. This has been a very good choice, because it has made great savings for both contracting authorities and business. We must abide by that law and those agreements, but where things may be better, we must look at them. We must be careful, however, that we continue to do justice to the intentions and the provisions of the law, even if Mr Monasch has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u43	I fully agree with the Minister's explanation; let there be no misunderstanding about that. This is the example that the municipality of Eindhoven has given us. You're looking for the best product. Thus, the definition of the tender is much more focused on innovation. You are looking for the best solution and you want to know which company can best think along and develop that product. At some point that product was also developed. Can the tenderer and the one who won the tender proceed together? Or is it blocked under this law because then there is a need to re-contract? That's the tension field. You want to give space to allow innovation in the development phase, but then also to continue with each other as a kind of launching customer, as Mr Bruins I believe called it. That space must be in the law. So far we have not tabled an amendment to that effect. That is true, because until now we have received the signal that this must be possible under this Procurement Act, but I would very much like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u44	I say that the way Mr Monasch wants to hear it, because that is the case. If you wanted innovation under the old scheme, wrote a tender for it, had companies come up with innovative proposals and picked out one proposal that you wanted to implement, then you had to start a new tender to put that away. Now it's settled like this. You want a certain innovation. The companies come up with their proposals. You're picking out a company. The company will work that out further, and you'll be happy with that. In that case, you can order that company without a call for tenders. That's settled with this. In fact, I think that Mr Monasch gave a fair example. Eindhoven is one of the municipalities that is very active in the field of innovation-oriented procurement. That's very commendable. Mr Monasch spoke about the implementation of a motion by his colleague, Mrs Vermeij, on labour market policy. That motion calls for an extension of the grounds for exclusion for discrimination on grounds of employment in the Procurement Act. The directive and the bill now provide for this. An economic operator who has infringed provisions on the prevention of employment discrimination may be excluded from a tender. In addition, if the tenderer encounters something like this, he must always report it to the Inspection SZW. That is what we have laid down in Article 2.81a. In doing so, this legislative proposal implements the motion of the Member of Parliament Vermeij. Mr Monasch also referred to the criteria for awarding the contract. We talked about that. In this context, we have discussed the lowest costs, the lowest price and the value for money. Mr Monasch also spoke about the recommendations of the Elias Committee. As Mr Monasch knows, these recommendations on the ICT sector are seen within the government. The law now before us is an implementing law. In the beginning, I have already outlined how we set up this law: through an implementation one-on-one, plus two changes that we made on the basis of the evaluation. Parts of the report by the Elias Committee, in so far as they relate to the matters we are discussing today, which can be used in general for procurement, have been followed up. In this context, I would like to mention, for example, the way in which past achievements should be dealt with. How are you supposed to handle that? I also mention the possibility of market consultation, which should be emphasised. That is also what we have brought with us. This law covers all works, supplies and services. As far as possible, we have involved the recommendations contained in the report of the Elias Committee in our work. Mr Verhoeven is now drinking coffee, among other things Mr Verhoeven has talked about the SBIR regime. He's pretty excited about the arrangement. I share his enthusiasm. Through the SBIR scheme, with a kind of competition, a challenge to the market, we can achieve ideas that will help us move forward. Mr Verhoeven said that the SBIR scheme should in fact focus on the science agenda. An amendment, the Van Veen/Vos amendment, has been tabled on the SBIR. Through this amendment, an additional budget of 3 million was made available for the SBIR in 2015 and 2016. Contracting parties double that budget again, so we have 6 million available under the SBIR. This money will finance projects that reflect what Mr Verhoeven means, namely the routes in the science agenda. These routes are about sustainable food chains, care, building, information gathering and noise pollution around public roads. I think that is a good link. This point was rightly made by Mr Verhoeven. I expect the SBIR and SBIR systems to be applied more rather than less in the future. Mr Verhoeven wondered whether it would be possible to determine the estimated value of research and development activities. This is dealt with in one of the procedures contained in the legislative proposal. The procurement directive lays down how the value of a contract should be determined for the different procedures. The Directive also defines how the value of innovation partnership should be calculated. We have incorporated that calculation from the directive into the legislative proposal. The directive does not leave room for choice, so we have not included it in the legislative proposal. However, the Directive recognises that the precise value of research and development activities cannot be determined. That is why the directive and the legislative proposal refer to the estimated value. I have already dealt with a number of other points raised by Mr Verhoeven. He said that in his opinion sustainability should actually be the criterion in 50% of the cases and not, as we have now achieved, 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u45	It's 13%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u46	13%. I believe that the Procurement Act should be suitable for all purchases from contracting authorities. You also often have to buy things where sustainability is not directly at stake. However, I think sustainability is an important issue across the board. That is what it is for all subsidy schemes, and that is what it must be for tenders. It is therefore a good thing that my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment has come up with a plan to deal with this. It has promised the Court that it will review the application and results of that plan before the summer and will share its conclusions with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u47	The first point that the Minister raised was the SBIR scheme, the Small Business Innovation Research scheme, which I am so enthusiastic about. He went a long way with me. Is he willing to make a specific statement that he is going to write an SBIR trajectory on the five themes of the National Science Agenda? Because I made a motion. If the Minister says he's willing to do that and wants to go that way, I'm not going to file it. Otherwise, it's just a little too noncommittal for me. Also because it is a point of like two years ago, I want a little butter with the fish now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u48	Mr Verhoeven gets butter with the fish. I think he's right about that link. However, I do not think that these themes are the most appropriate. Mr Verhoeven knows the system of the Science Agenda. You first have themes and then routes. I think those routes are more suitable for that. I have established that there is a real link between the SBIR and the routes. I think that is very sensible, and it is in line with what Mr Verhoeven has said a number of times. I think he's right to bring that Science Agenda in now. I'll make sure that happens. I think it will be more in the future than less. Mr Ziegs spoke about monitoring SMEs. I have already said that a statistical information report is available every three years, also because we have to deliver it to the European Commission. That report is a lot of work. I think it is good work, because it allows us to compare progress on the deployment of SMEs every three years. I have already indicated what has changed in two years. We can now look at that every three years. Mr Ziegs said that he agreed with Mrs Kroes, who said as a special Envoy for StartupDelta that the whole of what is happening in large municipalities to give start-ups more opportunities in procurement and the application of other best practices should be evaluated next year, in order to see how to apply it better and more widely. That is a good point from Mr Ziengs and I am prepared to review it next year. There are very practical leads for start-ups. We have three websites that they can access in this respect. The Innovation Case provides an overview of all the tools available in the government and also gives inspirational examples. We have the Innovation Market. This is a platform for sharing the innovation needs of the government, so that companies, including start-ups, can respond to them. We also have Purchasing Innovation Urgent. This is a program website with information about procurement and innovation. Those are all good tools for doing this. I am prepared to review this next year, in accordance with the proposal by Mrs Kroes and Mr Ziengs. Mr Ziegs spoke about the procurement experts. That's what I've been working on. I've taken up the self-explanatory statement. Mr Ziegs spoke about the cost compensation. That's what I've been working on. I now come to Mr Graus. He thus gave his own representation of reality. He said, "I said that there were problems with the franchise. No one believed that, and now it's being dealt with. I also saw that there were problems with dispaying municipalities. That was denied, too. Now that's getting the attention. The PVV is always right." I like to leave him his own reality. Several parties, including the SP, the Labour Party, the VVD, D66 and the PVV, have called for attention to the franchise issue. I've taken it very seriously from the beginning. I then stepped into it and pulled it hard for a year and a half. The result is that there is now a franchise code with a dispute resolution system. I'm looking at how that can get anchored in the law. That's just the job the Chamber does. As a representative of the people, he puts his finger on a sore spot. We talk about this together and discuss together how a solution can be found. That's what happened here. The same applies to what Mr Graus calls dispaying municipalities. We had found that the government pays bills for 90%, 95%, sometimes even more, within 30 days. This is also the case in many municipalities, but a number of municipalities are lagging behind. At that time, we agreed to make that clear. I took the initiative myself. There would be lists of municipalities that did not pay in time, so that the municipal councils could respond to them. So these issues have been taken seriously by the Chamber. It is then being worked on by the government, which has appointed the Chamber for this purpose. Mr Graus asked how I explained the difference between the positive evaluation and the negative noises from the round table. That evaluation has been very extensive. There have even been three evaluations. There have also been extensive surveys among contracting authorities and economic operators. We have also carried out separate statistical surveys. We have all properly accounted for this in that evaluation. I've already reported the positive results. For example, huge cost savings have been achieved, almost two thirds of SME awards are now underway and 4% growth has been achieved over a period of less than two years. Next time there's a round table meeting, I'm not inviting these people, I'm inviting the Chamber. I can also imagine that those who are invited will raise the point which they believe should be changed. That is all very important to me. The Chamber now also takes this with it in the treatment of the law. That's fine. I did it my way, very comprehensively in the evaluation. The input from the field has been very well addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u49	How far have you come with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u50	I'll be done in five, six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u51	Including the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u52	Including the amendments. I've been talking about corruption. Mr Graus asked about proportionality and proportionality. You can ask those questions, but you ask for a relative understanding. Proportionality is a relative thing. You have to see if something is proportional or not. That's what you gotta have handles for. We have the Guide Proportionality for that. That's how we try to do it. It has been explained on other occasions and now again by me. It's a relative notion that you need to fill in as best you can. We have done so with our Guide Proportionality. He asked me what I mean by disadvantaged people and people with disabilities. In this context, it is understood that people covered by the Jobs Agreement Act and quota labour restrictions. In addition, I also consider persons who receive benefits under the Work and Income Act to be disadvantaged, or on the basis of the Disability Insurance Act. Mr Graus spoke about the label. I went along with that. I also addressed the contracting authorities in relation to SMEs. Mr Graus also spoke about the benefit of own entrepreneurs. I have said that I think it is very good for Dutch entrepreneurs if they are given fair opportunities in Europe, because they are able to compete in Europe. You have encouraged me, Mr President, to come to the amendments. Four amendments have been tabled. The first is the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Bruins and Mr Ziegs. They want the proportionality guide to be extended to special sector companies such as Schiphol, the railways, ProRail, drinking water companies and network companies. For these companies, the Guide on Proportionality is not currently prescribed, but I have called on them to apply it. In half the cases, they do. In a number of cases, they don't. There is often a good reason for this, because the Guide Proportionality is not written for them. They are companies other than public authorities and public contracting authorities. The evaluation has not shown that the special sector enterprises are lagging behind contracting authorities in terms of proportionate behaviour. We believe that the practice of the special sector companies is similar to that of the contracting authorities, all of which must act in accordance with the Guide on proportionality. In the case of special sector companies, the situation is as I have just described it. So I don't think it's necessary to do this. Nor do I want to have more rules than is necessary. That is why I did not propose what Mr Bruins and Mr Ziengs are proposing in their amendment. The consideration is whether you also want to apply the additional rules to companies that the evaluation has not shown to be really necessary, because you would like the Guide to be applied consistently across the board. I'd like to leave that consideration to the Chamber. I can only say that the proportionality guide must be adapted. I am not sure that this is fully completed at the same time as this law enters into force. If the House were to support this amendment, I might have to allow this provision to come into force a little later. I deliberately didn't include it in the law. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the House in this case. I would like to make a few comments on this point. 12 I do not know whether it was signed by others other than Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u53	The amendment in part No. 12 was signed by Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. The amendment states that after "life cycle" in point (b) of Article 2.115a, it is to be inserted "including at least the cost of CO emissions." The first paragraph of Article 2.115a (b) provides that life cycle costs may relate to costs attributed to external environmental impacts. An explanatory note to that article states that this includes the cost of greenhouse gas emissions, including CO2, because that is the most important greenhouse gas. So it is already in that article, in conjunction with the explanatory statement. It is therefore unnecessary to put that in again; that is doubly so. Moreover, you may wonder why all these life cycle costs are only included separately in the text of that article and the other external environmental impacts of that life cycle cost are not taken into account. That doesn't make any sense. Because it is superfluous, because it is already in the text, and because it is not logical to add it to it, also for another reason, I have to add the amendment in part. 12 by Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van Veldhoven. The amendment in part No. 13 belongs to Mr Verhoeven and possibly to another member.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u55	There is another amendment to point No. 11 by Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u56	I shall come back to that in a moment, Mr President. If it is all right with you, I shall deal first with the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Verhoeven and, I believe, Mrs van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u57	Verhoeven, Van Veldhoven and Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u58	With the three of them, they have said that in Article I, part DY, part b, in the proposed second paragraph after part c, a part should be added, which is: sustainability features. This amendment refers to the application of the criterion "economically most advantageous tender', the EMFI criterion, in the case of procurement. Article 2.115 already contains a non-limitative list of further criteria, which the contracting authority may lay down in the application of EMFI. That list already contains criteria for sustainability. These include both social criteria and environmental criteria and innovative criteria. So they're already in there. Adding a component that refers to sustainability features is therefore unnecessary. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 13. I do not have a substantive problem with it, but it is simply superfluous. You don't make a law any better by including an unnecessary provision. The amendment in part No. Mrs Gesthuizen's 11 refers to the lowest cost. The legislative proposal includes three award criteria instead of the two award criteria EMVI (economically most advantageous tender) and lowest price. This was prescribed in the amended European directive. The award at the lowest price shall be justified by the contracting authority. If the contracting authority only wants to use the lowest price as a criterion, it must justify it. You have to do it or you have to explain. Awarding on the basis of the best value for money and also the award on the basis of the lowest cost I have already dealt with this; it concerns the lowest cost based on cost-effectiveness........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That doesn't need to be motivated. So that's what you can do. In the context of the 2012 Procurement Act, it is stipulated that award on the basis of EMVI is preferable. I have already mentioned the Ziengs amendment. It is therefore provided that, where the award is made at the lowest price, the contracting authority must justify it. In the other cases, you don't have to. The criteria for awarding on the basis of the lowest costs are generally based on quality aspects. I have already given Mrs Gesthuizen an example of this. Gunning at the lowest cost is a form of award based on EMFI. PIANoo also indicates that award at the lowest cost falls within the EMVI. The European Commission has also formulated this. Then it is logical that you treat both things, the best value for money and the lowest cost in terms of cost effectiveness, in the same way. The line we used in the 2012 Procurement Act on this issue is maintained in this legislative amendment. If we also include an obligation to state reasons when awarding at the lowest cost based on cost-effectiveness, this will impose an unnecessary administrative burden on contracting authorities. That's not gonna do us any good. That is why I reject this amendment by Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u59	I'd rather not go back on that in second place, so I'm asking this question now. I understand that in the draft version of the legislative amendment we are discussing today, in the version before the consultation, it was stated that this criterion should be justified. Apparently, the Minister or the Ministry first felt that the reasoning I followed was the right line. I am curious to see whose intercession this has finally changed and which has been incorporated into the final legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u60	I don't know. Here's what I know. When such a law is drawn up, we try to act very consistently. We have implemented, one-on-one, the relevant European directives, namely two amended and one new ones. In the choices that could be made, we followed the system of the 2012 Procurement Act. We have made two additional changes on the basis of the evaluation. And, as we always do, we put it on the Internet for consultation. Then you get all kinds of reactions from the field. You listen to that, you think about it and then you make a final proposal, which goes to the Council of Ministers and to the Council of State and eventually reaches the House of Representatives. I can't get back to you at what time something has changed and assigned to whom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u61	I have also looked into the paperwork of my two amendments. The Minister was rather brief about it and certainly about it, also in a negative sense. In his comments on my amendment to item No. 13, the minister said it already happened. However, in the list of things now mentioned in the article of the law, only the word 'environment' is mentioned, while I am talking about'sustainability'. Those are two different things. We can have endless semantic discussions about this, but my point is that sustainability is really something other than the environment. Other than that, there's nothing on those things that would make it unnecessary. The Minister may disagree or find it exaggerated, but it is not superfluous, because the environment and sustainability are two completely different things. That is my first question in relation to my amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u62	I must disagree with Mr Verhoeven. It doesn't just say "environment." I also think that the environment is important when it comes to sustainability, just as Mr Verhoeven thinks it is important. I agree with him that's not the only thing. Article 2.115 states "social, environmental and innovative features." Well, then you've got it all figured out. Social aspects, environmental aspects and innovative aspects are already mentioned in that law. Then you can describe them separately as sustainability features, but that does not bring any added value. That is why I did not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u63	Then I'll take a look at that, because I understand the Minister, but I don't agree with him that it overlaps. I shall devote the second part of my interruption, if I may, to another amendment, namely that in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 12. According to the Minister, that is also unnecessary. He said: that's already in it; "greenhouse" and "CO" overlap. That is a complete overlap, so I fully agree with the Minister that these two terms fully cover each other, but that is only mentioned in the explanatory memorandum and not in the legal text itself. And if we really want it, we have to put it in the legal text itself. So if the Minister wants to regulate this and put 'greenhouse gases' not only in the explanatory statement but also in the legal text itself, I am happy to withdraw the superfluous amendment. But I don't do that if it's just in the pleading, because that's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u64	I have no reservations about embracing improvements and certainly not when those of Mr Verhoeven come. However, in this case, the text of the Act refers to "cost allocated to external environmental impacts'. Then you might ask yourself what external environmental effects are. This is further clarified in the explanatory memorandum. It states that this includes the cost of greenhouse gas emissions. Mr Verhoeven and I both know that in the case of greenhouse gas emissions, you mainly talk about CO. So it's just enough. In this case, I must try to resist my tendency to embrace Mr Verhoeven's sensible proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u65	Finally. I think the Minister's argument about my amendment to item No. 12 pretty convincing, so I'll take another look at that. I myself tend to withdraw that amendment. But in the case of Amendment No. 13 I actually think I was more convincing. I am therefore going to maintain this amendment and tighten it so that the Minister can only admit that it is an enrichment of the future in the field of procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u66	I once again appreciate the constructive dialogue with Mr Verhoeven. Thank you very much, Mr President. I would have come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u67	Thank you. This is the end of the government's first term. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and ask the spokesmen to report to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u68	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that European procurement thresholds are relatively low, which means that public procurement must soon be compulsory at European level;]] [[Whereas public authorities have little room for local procurement due to the current procurement thresholds, which means that small players lose unnecessarily the large players across the border;]] [[whereas most Member States of the European Union are not yet in favour of raising tender thresholds, while their support is important to achieve a positive result during the negotiation of the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA);]] [[calls on the Government to raise European procurement thresholds in the European Union in 2016 and to share results with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the award of contracts to SMEs has remained virtually the same since the entry into force of the Procurement Act;]] [[Whereas price in the case of tenders sometimes outweighs the intended price;]] [[Whereas the emphasis on price reduces the likelihood of contracts being awarded to SMEs;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the writing group of the Guide on proportionality in order to extend it to include technical indications which contribute to reducing the emphasis on price,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tenders are sometimes withdrawn due to errors made by the contracting authority or because new political and/or financial targets are set;]] [[Whereas tenderers have sometimes been able to prove their work on a tender for many weeks before it is withdrawn;]] [[Whereas it is important to improve the professionalism of public procurement;]] [[Calls on the Government to clarify before 1 January 2017 how often tender procedures have been withdrawn too late in recent years and in how many of these cases compensation has been paid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Ziengs, Mr Monasch and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-14]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Ziengs, Mr Monasch, Mr Bruins and Mr Gesthuizen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-15]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Ziengs, Mr Monasch and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u69	Now for a final brief statement. I thank the Minister for the commitment on the figures. We look forward to it with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u70	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to ask the following question very clearly once again: when will the law enter into force? I haven't heard that from the Minister. Will TenderNed really finish making the changes in time so that the three award criteria can be used? Otherwise, could the entry into force of the law be postponed so that TenderNed, contracting authorities and companies can adapt their processes? Now I come to the amendment that has already been tabled. I find it very strange, or frankly crooked as a crooked banana, that the minister here says that EMVI is just the same as the lowest cost. If that were the case, wouldn't we all have come up with the idea that you have to motivate it if you're willing to go at the lowest price? There is a clear difference between EMFI and the lowest price, so I certainly maintain my amendment on this point. There is an amendment in the making about the authority. The Minister doesn't want that. I don't know if that amendment's gonna make it. Should the Commission of Procurement Experts no longer look at the efficiency of procurement? That would probably make a lot of sense. Finally, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that SMEs should be given equal opportunities in competing for a tender and that excessive clusters hinder this;]] [[noting that unnecessary clusters are prohibited in the 2012 Procurement Act, that the Guide of Proportionality explains this, but is nevertheless unnecessarily clustered;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the writing group of the Guide to proportionality to adapt it so that it is clarified when there are unnecessary clusters of assignments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Ziengs, Mr Monasch, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. I will table three motions, but first thank the Minister for his answers and for the appreciation he has given for the amendments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission of Procurement Experts provides for a low-threshold complaint reporting point for economic operators and may act as intermediaries by issuing an opinion;]] [[Whereas there is a strong need on the part of economic operators to assess the legality of procurement procedures;]] [[considers that a short lead time is desirable, so that opinions are available before the final award decision is taken;]] [[calls on the Government, the capacity and lead times of the Commission of Procurement Experts to monitor and inform the Court at least once a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Innovation Partnership offers good opportunities to take advantage of the innovative capacity of companies;]] [[believes that public-private cooperation between public authorities and several SMEs can also lead to innovative solutions at local level in the short term, e.g. through voluntary agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to launch pilots involving public-private cooperation between the public authorities and several SMEs jointly in order to find local innovative solutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that contracting authorities and special sector companies still too often violate the rules of the Procurement Act and the Legally Secured Guide Proportionality;]] [[Whereas the imposition of disproportionate eligibility requirements and the unnecessary clustering of contracts lead to the exclusion of part of the market and an undesirable restriction of competition in procurement;]] [[calls on the government to organise independent monitoring in procurement, for example at PIANoo, including annual reporting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Ziengs, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Monasch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-18]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u72	Mr Graus waives his second term. I call Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u73	Mr. Chairman. I had asked two questions in the first period which have not yet been answered, but that does not alter my thanks for answering all the other questions. I would also like to thank the Minister for his support for the information. The first question was about the area that municipalities have with this law to make their own calls for tender in the context of small-scale asylum reception. Municipalities often collide with the COA about this. The question is whether there is scope within the Procurement Act to conduct the procurement itself, in cooperation with the COA, or independently. The second question was also put by Mr Mulder. Maybe I missed the answer. The question was about the evaluation of the principles of the law in the framework of the European Commission. Is the Minister already working on it from within the department and in what way are the Member States, and hence the Chamber, involved? We have now focused mainly on the adaptation of the directives, but at that time the principles are also under discussion. I'd like to get an insight into that procedure. Finally, we are very pleased that a Member State can prohibit registration only in terms of price or cost. Such an invitation to tender may be prohibited or restricted. It is perhaps best summarised in recital 90 of the Directive. Quality must be paramount, and if it is not the case and it is only the price or costs involved, the Member State has the opportunity to do so. That's profit. Let's go that way, because it's about quality. We have already seen this in the healthcare sector and, as far as we are concerned, it will have to go further in many other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u74	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite the legal provision against unnecessary aggregation of contracts, too many contracts are still combined;]] [[Whereas aggregation of procurement contracts is detrimental to SMEs;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to prevent unnecessary aggregation of contracts in the context of better procurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Monasch, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Bruins, Mr Ziengs and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u75	My second motion concerns the share of innovative purchasing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the public authorities have set the target of spending 2.5% of all purchases on innovative products, services and solutions;]] [[whereas the CPB recently recommended in the Kansrijk innovation policy report that the innovative procurement instrument SBIR be very successful in stimulating innovation and that the public authorities should invest more in this instrument;]] [[calls on the government to increase the target of spending 2.5% of all purchases on innovative products, services and solutions to 5%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u76	I would like to make two brief comments. I thank the Minister for the answers. However, he has denied a number of problems by sticking to the paper reality, particularly with regard to the position of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I have tabled the motion for a resolution on the unnecessary merging of super-commissions, so that small businesses simply do not have a chance. I am glad that the whole Chamber has raised this point at a number of different moments. I really hope that the Minister is motivated to ensure that things are getting better in practice. I know he doesn't want orders to be merged either. He keeps saying that clustering isn't allowed. Needless clustering is not allowed, but the word "unnecessary" may give too much room to municipalities to do it anyway. I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment to the SBIR. That is why I have not tabled a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u77	Mr. Chairman. I have only one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that procurement procedures be open to young, innovative companies including start-ups, so as to maximise the picture of innovative solutions;]] [[noting that efforts are being made at a decentralised level to improve access to procurement for young innovative companies through, among other things, a test lab of a number of large cities, aimed at exchanging knowledge, experience and examples;]] [[considers it important that best practices developed quickly become commonplace;]] [[calls on the Government to provide full scope for this test lab and similar initiatives, to monitor progress and, where possible, to act as a launching customer or otherwise of support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ziengs, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34329-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u78	This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. Thank you for your speedy cooperation. After this, there is another debate. If the Minister could comment briefly and concisely on the motions in this connection, I would be grateful. Not all motions have been distributed yet, so I shall suspend for a few moments. The Minister will then deal with the motions and, if necessary, answer any questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mr. Chairman. In the Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 14 The government is invited to set up an increase in European procurement rules with the European Union in 2016 and to share the results with the Chamber. I reject this motion because it makes no sense, as I have already said. The thresholds are set worldwide. The European Commission has drawn up a directive for this purpose. There have been consultations with the countries prior to this. This showed insufficient support from the other countries for our efforts to raise the thresholds. At the moment, it is not possible to recalibrate that. The next opportunity to do it with a chance of success is if a global and European round is made again. Well, I'm sure I'd like to do that, but it doesn't make any sense before. I don't feel like doing things that don't stand a chance. That's why I advise against this motion. In the Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 15 the government is asked to consult with the writing group of the proportionality guide in order to extend this guide with technical guidance that helps to reduce the emphasis on price. I also advise against this motion. I think the price is an important element in procurement. We've got taxpayers' money to spend on the government. That tax money needs to be spent carefully. With the Procurement Act we do this in a very careful way. I believe that the proportionality guide is also an excellent support for this. It's a balanced whole. I really don't think it's good to put even less emphasis on the price now, as if that's something that's hardly relevant. Then the balance will be removed. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 15. In the Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 16 The government is asked to make clear before 1 January 2017 how often tender procedures have been withdrawn too late in recent years and in how many of these cases compensations have been paid. I don't know how much work that's gonna take to figure all that out. There have been a lot of calls for tenders in recent years. To get all that back, I think there's a lot of work that doesn't make much sense. I think it is good to follow this now and to take it with us on another occasion that we report on the course of events. I'm willing to do that. However, I do not think it is appropriate to devote our official manpower to identifying and adding up all the procurement procedures and any damages that have taken place in recent years. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 16 also betrayed. In the motion-Gesthuizen c.s. in piece No. 17 the government is asked to ask the writing group of the Guide Proportionality to adapt it, so as to clarify where there are unnecessary clusters of assignments. The evaluation has shown that the problems experienced are not in regulation or in the Guide Proportionality, but are related to its application. This application is the focus of our project Better procurement. So the rules are good. We are now going to focus the regional project Better procurement on the application. There's no point in changing the rules now. There is no point in explaining that unnecessary clusters differently or removing the word "unnecessary." The scope of the law is perfectly clear. Clustering isn't allowed unless it's really necessary. And if you can split up, you should. I'd like to do it this way. I would then like to see this done in practice. Hence the better procurement project. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 17. In the Bruins-movement c.s. in piece No. 18 invites the Government to monitor the capacity and lead times of the Commission of Procurement Experts and to inform the Court at least once a year. If that's what the Chamber wants, I will. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 18 to the Chamber. In the Bruins-movement c.s. in piece No. 19 the government is invited to launch pilots involving public-private cooperation between the public authorities and several SMEs jointly, in order to find local innovative solutions. I do not think it is useful, because the contracting authorities are going to impose. We've given them a range of opportunities to do this kind of thing. We also see that in practice it has already worked out well for SMEs and that there is also growth in them. I find it tricky to start these pilots now without having any real added value. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 19. In the motion in part No. 20 by Mr Bruins and Mrs Gesthuizen, the government is invited to organise independent monitoring in procurement, for example at PIANoo, including annual reporting. I have already indicated in the first period how enforcement works. I will not repeat that now. There's a whole system. You can go to the service first with a complaint. You can also contact the Commission of Procurement Experts with a complaint. You can go straight to the judge. You can go to the judge again after that commission. I also mentioned the role of the auditors, the law enforcement services and the auditors. I think we have a final setup. In my opinion, this is not a good addition. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 20 by Mr Bruins and Mrs Gesthuizen. In the Verhoeven c.s. motion in piece No. 21 the government is invited to come forward with proposals to prevent unnecessary aggregation of contracts in the context of better procurement. In substance, I have no disagreement with the Chamber. I think it's only right to merge assignments when it's necessary. As far as that happens when it's unnecessary, that's not good. I therefore intend to pay particular attention to this in the project. That means I'm judging the motion in part No. 21 to the room late. In the motion in part No. 22 Mr Verhoeven asked the government to increase the target of spending 2.5% of all purchases on innovative products, services and solutions to 5%. I don't think it's good to do that. With that 2.5%, we have laid a reasonable foundation. I believe that contracting authorities themselves should assess this on a case-by-case basis. We know that there is attention to it across a broad front. That attention will remain, but I do not think it is appropriate to artificially set the percentage to 5% for all purchases. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 22 by Mr Verhoeven. In the motion-Seengs c.s. in piece No. 23 The government is asked to provide all the space in a test lab and similar initiatives, to monitor progress within them and, where possible, to act as a government as a launching customer or to support the opening up of procurement procedures for young and innovative companies. The Innovation Partnership is already giving more scope. I already support innovation through PIANoo. I will also look into the use of the Innovation Partnership in the next evaluation. What is put forward in this motion is in line with that. That is why I shall leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 23 by Mr Ziengs and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on To the Chamber. I have something to make up for Mr Monasch. At one point, I am not getting out of it with him right now because I did not fully understand his point. I will understand this separately with him. He spoke about the evaluation of the starting points. I'm not really getting what he means by that. That's gotta be me. I will talk to him about this separately and see how I can do justice to his view on that point. The other point he raised is that I have to give municipalities the room to organise small-scale asylum reception. The Procurement Act should not stand in the way of his. I can assure Mr Monasch that the Procurement Act will not stand in the way. If municipalities want to buy or rent property to make it suitable for the reception of asylum seekers, the Procurement Act does not cover that. They're totally free to do that. If they have then bought real estate and want to decorate it, then they can continue to set it up and fill it out together with the COA. That can happen. I am therefore convinced that this Procurement Act enables what Mr Monasch is trying to do, namely to enable municipalities and provinces to actually implement their willingness to receive asylum seekers and to act effectively in their own environment. That is why I believe that this point by Mr Monasch is justified, but that it does not require any separate action on my part and a modification of the Procurement Act. Mrs Gesthuizen said that it is difficult for her to imagine that the lowest costs are now suddenly EMVI. I have indicated that the lowest price in my view was not an EMFI and that it is still not. The European Commission has now split into what is EMVI. She said that looking at both the value for money and the lowest cost of efficiency is EMFI. I believe that this split does not affect the principle of EMVI and that it is therefore not necessary to treat part of it in a different way. Mrs. Gesthuizen asked when the law will come into force. It is my ambition to bring the law into force on 1 July. We have two fixed moments, 1 July and 1 January, so I am aiming for 1 July. According to the deadlines set by the European Commission, I should be ready on 18 April. I'm not gonna make it, but July 1st is. TenderNed will therefore be ready to do what needs to be done. I hope that I have given sufficient consideration to the points raised by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u80	This ended the second term of office of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-12.u81	I would like to thank Members for their input, and I thank the Minister for Economic Affairs for coming to the Chamber. We shall be voting on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions for resolutions next Tuesday.
