ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and all other governors to the Upper House. I give the floor to Mr Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. The Leiden Lake Hall is going to restore and renew. That building is full of ancient values, history, identity and pride in what has been achieved for generations. It draws inspiration for the future when it is remodeled and extended under the title "noble simplicity." Is the renovation of our country going to be as simple as the noble cabinet wants us to believe at the end of its journey? People want to go back to more mutual cooperation and trust. They want to be taken more seriously in their own responsibilities instead of being held accountable in contracts and rules for everything. They feel that our rule of law is not finished and the globe is still not perfect. And not everyone is already happy because of the revival of the economy. In this changing time, we walk along the garden path full of traditions of our ancestors on the bridge of the present over digital highways to the future. Some find it scary or do not see anything in it and others rush to get the past vi aut clam under the green sods. With such diverse views, it is important not to come to decision as a programmed robot or in an intuitive reflex movement instantly and symbolically. A more informed and therefore more robust approach, with the possibility of wider public support and practicality, remains necessary. Organs are not donated by law. Faith and conviction will not get another place in society if the edge of coin would be named after Mommon. Addicts don't get healthier and their neighbors don't get happier if weed is branded as our country's trademark alongside tulips, cheese and clogs. Respect for life until the last breath is in the genes of our country. In this composition, even after the upcoming elections, this house is still 365 times 24 hours willing and able to contribute at the right time to more careful and therefore more enforceable legislation. That is still the view of this cabinet, isn't it? When I wrote this on a beautiful autumn morning, the radio interrupted me with reports of nightly stabbings and also about arson, robbery and other trouble. Fortunately, therefore, the cabinet has finally wanted to listen to well-founded requests from this house to strengthen the pillars of our rule of law. In order to ensure robust restoration, further and consistent quality improvements throughout the criminal justice chain will remain necessary in the coming years. The fact alone that several thousands of convicts are still running loose is affecting the credibility of policy and authority. The police stop receiving and transporting confused persons. The Wiv has still not been modified in such a way that it is possible to prevent terrorism by allowing further browsing of data files. Does the government wish to cooperate that at least these matters will be resolved during this cabinet period? I started with a heartfelt compliment and I'll give you another one. The happiness that many are laughing at as the economy attracts, also belongs to the cabinet. It is understandable that this is not only due to his own policy. And there is a lot of pain as a result in many living room, but still, honor who deserves credit. We were constructive in our opposition and supported much, but not everything. I'm concentrating today on what's left for the cabinet at the end of the drive. Apologies, too, from my side. Apologies for the fact that I would like to call again for more attention to the true facts of every day, while the cabinet is singing its praises of its own success. The ordinary man and woman basically have nothing against any innovation, but they do love beautiful stories, grand plans and forms, while reality does its own rounds along the house door and the work floor. Tax cuts were promised, but the reality is that from 2016 to 2017, an additional 3.4 billion tax and premium will be collected as a result of government policy, in addition to 5.8 billion extra by "endogenic growth," as it is called. And how can hundreds of millions of boarding bonuses be paid without punishment at the Tax Office, when that same service cannot even get a model contract forzzp's. Is that noble simplicity? The ordinary citizen has no problem with the abolition of the deduction of monuments as a result of tax simplification, but simply an increase. This does not lead to the reconstruction of valuable traditions, but rather to the destruction of them. Now it's time to stop apologizing. It's time to act. Will the Prime Minister promise that he will return to this for the upcoming General Financial Reviews? The cabinet promised a lot about simplification and own responsibility. What is the reality, however? We were in favour of decentralisation of the WMO but against its hasty introduction. Despite promises made by the cabinet, implementation by some municipalities and by the Social Insurance Bank has become a tragedy: directors have been sent away and checks on legality of claims for personal budgets have been put on a low level. Is that noble simplicity, responsible spending of taxpayers' money? ProRail performs visibly better than before, as can be seen on Utrecht Centraal, for example. Most people therefore like to see this organisation continue as a government-NV. But the cabinet is going to run this mining team itself now. Didn't it understand its own bad experience at the SVB? "Sorry for the inconvenience" can't the cabinet keep saying, can it? The balance of this entire cabinet period is burden-sharing and further complicating of the tax system. The whole of Holland prefers not to bake hot air from the eloquent mouth of a high authority bearer. If there were already 10 billion free space in the tax administration, would it not be better to insert it into income policy in a simple two-stage fiscal rocket rather than sticking over and over again in all kinds of ad hoc purchasing power cards? In the meantime, millions of pensioners are waiting for the outcome of the scheming on average premiums, interest rates and the like, while their benefits are constantly lagging behind. This cannot be resolved convincingly with an occasional douche bag on the way to elections. There must be new security under the more shaky pillars of old age. Can we hear anything more positional from the cabinet before the AFB? In our view, the pension base built up in solidarity should not shrivel to something like the first pillar plus a second pillar to about the accounting limit of social security, while with an income above that one should see how to move forward. And also because pension-built assets cannot be used for one's own home, in all pension debates, the cabinet is now turning the shelter for old age into a virtual mess, while in the pension greenhouses there is a lot of money for present and future generations. That can't be called reform, can it? The President of the Netherlands Bank recently mentioned more reforms that have not yet been completed. I call it the housing market. We have always argued that we should pay more attention to more autonomous population growth and more single-person households. To further ageing. "No problem," said the person in charge. In any case, we suggested that we build and grow more energy-efficiently, so that at least the cost of living would be reduced. "No," the Minister of Energy said, "I prefer to build windmills like aircastles, as far as the eye can see." Granted, this latter active minister we do he says. On land, at sea and in the air there is no place in and near this country where you do not see windmills that are not twice as high as the Utrecht Cathedral. There are now countless house seekers, immigrants are not allowed to sleep on the streets and average house prices are rising. And what does Minister Blok say on TV? "Let the municipalities and provinces make haste now with extra building." That's old beer! This is not an excuse but a new policy. Energy savings are useful for the climate and for housing costs as well as for employment. There is no need for more diverse but faster environmental visions and more practical ones, which also facilitate changes of destination in these changing times. There is a need for faster construction space. Landlord's taxes hinder private initiative and corporations. Why does the Cabinet say that these reforms are ready? Previously, the cabinet made the sensible choice to help parents who want to support children and grandchildren in purchasing their own home. Would the cabinet also consider this for grants on study? From our traditions of solidity, mutual respect, own and joint responsibility, solidarity and commitment, openness and honesty, we want to continue to look to the future. The CDA also allows each one to be free and safe, but with the negative consequences of corresponding behavior we should not continue to bother each other. It is about better enforcement and promotion of what we have come to regard as standards in the values of our welcoming society over the centuries. Justice, charity, freedom, equality, respect, moderation, labour ethic and serving responsibility become worthless ideals if the corresponding standards are not respected. That's what we stood for together, and that's what we have to keep fighting for. In the past, we may have done so literally, now certainly non-violent, but indeed. It is memorable to hear the Prime Minister recently begin the morningwarming of his re-election tour on the radio with a plea for the restoration of standards and values. What standards and values does his cabinet have in mind? It will take some time to get used to the future in our country, which has become so overly accustomed to the fact, or at least the promise, that more and more risks can be borne by the State. More and more national rules and increasing government influence are hitting the end of their tension. The biggest reform that awaits our administrative swamp in the coming years is that we need to get used to the consequences of the idea that the individual wants to have more to say in our society. That's really about more than a referendum. It's also about choosing your own school, your media frequency, the beginning and end of your life, your itinerary or your independence without staff. I could raise a very high electoral threshold against all kinds of individual minds of this time, but I would like to add from our tradition that you should not forget your own commitment, risk and responsibility for society for the future. Anyway, let the voter speak first. There's still plenty of work to be done for the upcoming cabinet under whoever's leadership. Not too many formation charts of the new cabinet in advance will make a constructive, because independent dialogue with this house more productive, regardless of whether the CDA is in opposition or outside. Moreover, does the cabinet have any idea how the coming formation should be put together in a procedural manner? Other than the last time, maybe? As I said, there are still a lot of work to be done by this cabinet. For example, we are now asking for a response to current views and circumstances outside the national borders which directly affect what is happening within them. According to the SCP, citizens really aren't fighting that anymore. Fortunately, their confidence in politics seems to be rising again. Then there must be no empty promises and clear statements. Our compatriots, still according to the SCP, feel relatively happy compared to other countries, but are also relatively concerned about the future. The IMF recently reported that the world is suffering more than ever from debt, public and, much more so, private. What the world is suffering even more is not money: a lack of trust, within countries and between countries. Polarisation, populism, plutocracy are all expressions of distrust, anger and selfishness, in short: of lost ties and of common interests. Even our trusted anchor, the United States, will suffer these days. Our entire post-war stability is built on trust between America and its allies, based on a commitment to predictable and values-based behavior. Even that's on the vulgar game in the U.S. election. Yes, the whole model of our democratic system as a model for the organisation of a civilized political life has become a subject of struggle in the most important Western country, which has so much left its mark on our post-war world. The fact that we are also living in a worse geopolitical climate is not something I have to mention. If you add all that up, we are more than ever obliged to work with our friends and neighbours in Europe to find ways to ensure our security and our security of existence. Recapturing trust, between our citizens and with our foreign partners, friends and alleged enemies, is the greatest challenge of our time. We cannot do that by talking to citizens at their mouths, nor by ignoring their concerns. And that brings me to Europe. We hear the most terrible things about it: impotence, poaching and conflicting interests. Let us be a little cautious about this, because we are still living and working in Europe, in fact, our main partners. After all, we cannot hang our country behind a floating goat and drag it to a virtual paradise elsewhere on the globe. And at the same time, we shouldn't be more beautiful than it is. The current European Union is unable to address the major issues of today, such as immigration, wars and hunger in Africa, threats at the eastern borders, from the Arab world, terrorism and financial instability. Unfortunately, it is too fragmented for this and not sufficiently homogeneous. Sometimes it seems like the cabinet is talking a little bit about that. It lines the beads of pragmatism. Let me say quite frankly that the current circumstances may force us to do so. Perhaps we are doomed to drift along with the flow of the Brussels day. And maybe, by the word of Bismarck, it's a lot if you don't bump into the banks too much by now. What does the cabinet really think of the huge, too risky, experimental money creation of the ECB? Can we continue to say that the bank is autonomous and therefore we do not like it, while the citizen is barely making a profit with his savings and is now becoming the best pension system in Europe? You can't do that! What does the cabinet think of the opportunities to make a military fist with European countries, if necessary? Can we go beyond the improvisations of the past year to address the issue of refugees and immigration? There is more going on here than the dramas in Syria. What are we going to do in concrete terms and with which allies? And, if so, what are the more concrete pluses and minuses instead of continuing to determine the course of the day? Answers to such questions, however for the time being, can help to regain trust. Honest answers, where we don't have to imagine it more beautiful than it is, help. Answers that show where we might get stuck, what choices lie ahead, help. Then there can be a democratic and parliamentary debate in which citizens can be taken into account, including where there are dilemmas that cannot be resolved in any simple referendum. Raising together, in Europe, the whole world and around the corner at home, requires new arrangements, new tryouts, new relationships. Our commitment is not to cast the responsibilities of The Hague, but over the fence, neither to municipalities and provinces, nor to citizens, nor to institutions or companies. Citizens and their municipalities still need to get used to mutual care, as is currently the case They need to get used to market forces and economic competition. Sure, that too is the reality in which we live, but not at any price. Difficult, future priority issues often require complex solutions. Food security and safety and healthier nutrition are about more than one cow more or less in the pasture. Our water system is about more than just a downpour too much. Our traffic infarct is about more than just another crashed truck. And a glitch on our internet connection is about more than our umpteenth whatsapp. In all this increasing complexity in our lives and in our increasingly full country, we must be more careful to leave things unsolved or allow individual and group responsibilities too much and too easily to snow under in an impenetrable collective drizzle. The fact that there is still much to be reformed in the coming years is certain for us. As far as we are concerned, what I have just said is first and foremost that the Labour Party's colleague and others must sound like music to the ears in the turn of our minds. We are not living in the present because yesterday was and the future is feared. No, the opportunities for improvement in this changing time lie before us all for themselves and for all of us together now take up all our responsibilities in concrete and factual terms, and we indicate what can really remain for a while because it can really wait for the future, and that is because it is really a different one from the government that has been designated for that earlier. Today we lend the valuable values and values of the rich tradition of our ancestors and of the future of our offspring. We're on our way to tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, hopefully with fewer government line reflexes. We are moving towards a future in which we borrow less on the puff, in which we lend knowledge and experience, time and energy, money and other bets and memories from and to each other. Elites are often in the less noble fucking corner now, but fortunately there are many more than Feringa who want to pursue the best for everyone in politics and society. Let us therefore fight only the evils in all parts of the population and not sweep the many good poor and rich, young and elderly, women and men in there with those evils in any evil hope. Quietly, carefully, carefully and properly get to work with each other. We must not write off the government and our joint institutions, but we must ensure that they adapt further to the new era. We need to give confidence to their commitment and expertise. We must give that confidence back to Akkerboom and his policemen, but we must also give it back to doctors and nurses and teachers who teach the youth to read together, to live together and to learn a profession together. The country needs more than failure to do so. We need to act more firmly, visibly, where and for those who need it, on the street, on the border and in our computers, but we should not think that a stick of arms is the best hammer of Presidents. We must no longer allow ourselves to see what has been tolerated for too long, because that is an important factor affecting public credibility in private life. In this light of that future, I drew attention to the good tradition of Leiden Laken: as citizens gather together under the protection of a nice, sturdy, beautiful fabric. It gives more protection and energy to make it more cheerful together than gloom. A piece of paper with a plan doesn't warm up a cop, a teacher, an aid worker or anyone else. We, politically speaking, are not talking about a museumal path back to old traditions and not about achievements preserved in a museum like the now musty duffels and jockeys of my youth. No, it's a new era in which we use old, valuable traditions, craftsmanship and customs in new design and production techniques, with new materials and their less standard applications, with intelligent and efficient robots as well as warm-blooded and engaged, creative, ordinary people giving new perspective. Such noble simplicity really gives new impetus, more work and sometimes other work. Feringa's nano-mechanisms will certainly help more than a hand. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs leave room for such investments, or is such a bright view of the future already becoming a thing of the past with the equally quick sighting of his last windmills? Finally, I would like to brief the Prime Minister on the political history of our country. In his image story of successful reforms and a smooth-running economy, he energeticly tells about the Tower as a Next Level of his pitch. Meanwhile, the SCP calculated that in the underlying crisis years incomes fell below 10%. The collective sector swallows an increasing proportion of the national cake. That's not all wrong, think about care and education, but still... Whoever had to live on business profits saw his income fall by as much as 15% during that period, WAO and WW'ers saw a decrease of about 10% and people with children saw a decrease of between 5%. And not to mention, too many children live below the poverty line. Let me therefore remind the Prime Minister that'saevis tranquillus in undis'. I know that the President would have liked to have spoken Latin in this Chamber in turbulent times as easily as it can be translated by political opponents again as 'devil in the midst of calm waves'. So watch your mouth here and now, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u3	I waited for Mr Brinkman to speak. For a moment I got out of my bench, because he was talking briefly about the referendum. That's something the moods are very concerned about. The Prime Minister is also very busy trying to get all the noses out of the same direction. I heard in the media yesterday that the senators in this house are going to make their own decision. Mr Buma of your party states that he respects the outcome of the referendum. In the history of the CDA, I see that both the Dutch Parliamentary Group and the Dutch Parliamentary Group voted in favour of the association agreement with Ukraine. They also voted against the consultative referendum. This was done by both parliamentary groups. So I think the cards are very clear about voting behaviour. My burning question to the CDA Senate Group is whether it believes that the Prime Minister should ratify the association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u4	I have often attended debates in this House where it was said that we should take our role purely. I have therefore just stated in my story that this parliamentary group is happy to give its opinion on issues that are at issue in good time, namely at the time of our turn. In particular, we are talking about legislative proposals. For this reason, I have said in the media that I would like to repeat that we believe that the government governs not only a reformatory view, but also a political view of the entire group, which, as you know, consists of different attitudes. If it is not our turn, we will not give our opinions. We will then again be accused of misunderstanding. If the Prime Minister and his cabinet think he needs time to resolve this complex issue in Brussels, he wrote it to the House of Representatives and sent a copy to the House of First Representatives, we will grant him that time. After the House of Representatives has given its opinion on this matter in due course and a legislative proposal is submitted to the House of Lords if this is the case, we will judge. If we don't have a bill here, we'll see. We don't have a move right now. That seems to me to be the only purely constitutional view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u5	I think the CDA does not always have so much trouble with the division of roles, but that aside. I can conclude from these words that you do not fully support the party chairman in the Lower House. Sorry, group chairman. Whatever, he's Mr. Buma from the House of Representatives. That's important, isn't it? Mr. Buma isn't the first to be the best. I can conclude from your words that you do not fully support him, so not 100%. And I don't hear you say no to the signing either. I am glad that this is included in the Acts, because then it is clear that you are not saying no as a Member of Parliament at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u6	I also attach great importance to the Acts, which is why it is good to note that my colleague must be careful when acting like a journalist who gives his own explanation of the words that come out of my mouth every time. The only explanation I give myself in the Acts is that we do not yet have an opinion on this. If we had it, we would not be giving it now, because it is not our turn. So draw the conclusion I'm drawing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u7	Go ahead, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thanks to my colleague. I have a follow-up question. I understand the group chairman of the CDA. That's a normal argument. The problem is, however, that the Prime Minister has said that he wants to negotiate something in Brussels within six weeks for which he wants the support of the Chambers. How does the CDA group chairman view this process? He doesn't say wrongly: come up with something, then we can talk about it and, if there's nothing, we don't have a conversation. The Prime Minister says he's going to Brussels and he needs the support of the Chambers. How do you see from a procedural point of view that we are going to talk about the conclusion of the Ukraine Treaty and the outcome of the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u9	I have been in politics for quite some time, perhaps not as long as my colleague is interrupting. The first thing I learned from my teachers when I went into politics was never answering questions, because you never know what the future looks like. I'm gonna stick to that lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u10	But it's not a question. I'm asking how you see the trial. Or do you say that I leave that entirely to the government and only when it comes to something, you will hear something from the CDA; before that time we will remain silent and we will not go into the seductions of the Prime Minister, who looks around and says'maybe there are people who do not agree with the CDA group chairman'. For you, it is only when the government comes up with a negotiated outcome in Brussels and a legislative proposal based on it that you think you are the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u11	The honourable Member who is speaking now is one of those in this House who often say 'we should take a step back as the First Chamber'. Now he's using the word "trick" and he's trying to seduce me again to get out of my role. I'm not. The House of Representatives may wish to consult with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or anyone else in the meantime. It's none of our business, I'd say. The Prime Minister has informed us that he is going to Brussels. We were not the ones who came with a time pressure, on November 1st. Let's just wait and see. Furthermore, the colleague should ask the Prime Minister what he wants to ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u12	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u13	I wouldn't dare try to seduce Mr Brinkman here, publicly. Although, in this country today, a lot, who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u14	You'd rather do it over the phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u15	No, I like to do everything in plain sight. My question was: how do you see the process? That's not entrapment, that's not temptation. Your answer is clear: there is nothing on the agenda for us at the moment and we will see what the Prime Minister comes up with; if he wants to talk to the House of Representatives, he will do so, but the CDA's First Chamber will not talk until there is a proposal from the government on this matter. That's correct, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u16	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u17	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u18	It may be more of a comment than a question. I have heard Mr Brinkman say a few times just now in the interrupting debate with Mrs Faber and also earlier in his speech, that there was a lot of reform to be done. My question is whether he means politically reformed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u19	Madam President, I will leave the debate to you. I hope it stays attractive after these interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the last budget of the Rutte II cabinet. A cabinet that here, in the First Chamber, has had to overcome the necessary setbacks to make its policy a success. The majority for this cabinet in the Lower House was missing and still missing here. Nevertheless, it seems that this cabinet has been the first cabinet since 1998 to win the election missionary. This is an important fact, because rapidly changing Cabinets also lead to rapidly changing policies, with uncertainty for people, businesses and civil society organisations. The fact that the Netherlands has spared this cabinet period of misery is a good thing. In 2012 the first Rutte cabinet fell, while the Netherlands was in a deep crisis. The economic crisis that erupted on the US housing market in 2008 caused an economic crisis that has left deep traces worldwide. When negotiations ended in the Catshuis in April 2012, the Netherlands was not in a good position. Rising unemployment, a growing budget deficit and delayed maintenance of the welfare state. Stand on it! The cabinet has had the guts to do exactly that. After the Dutch Parliament elections in September 2012, VVD and PvdA picked up the gauntlet to put the Netherlands back in order. Of course, it would have been easier to stand on the sidelines with our own right under the arm. Because on the sidelines you can uncompromisingly defend your own ideals. On the sidelines, everyone has their own right. There on the left can cry out that the welfare state is demolishing on the right. And calls on the right in turn that the Dutch values are squandering on the left. That may feel good, but it has never made one Dutchman better. Because if you want to realize ideals, even in part, you have to show courage. The nerve to make difficult decisions. The nerve to defend measures that are not popular. The nerve to say to everyone in the Netherlands "it wasn't fun, but it was necessary." In recent years, everyone in the Netherlands has felt the consequences of the crisis. People lost their jobs, saw the value of their homes sink or their own business go bankrupt. The cabinet has taken difficult measures that everyone has noticed. Maintenance to the welfare state that had been postponed for years could no longer be postponed. Rising public spending, ageing and rising costs of care and social security are tough problems that have not been solved in a single day. But this cabinet has taken important steps in the right direction. The Netherlands is economically better off than a few years ago. The economy is growing. Companies are increasingly daring to invest and expand. Thanks to the reforms in healthcare, we need not be afraid that our children and grandchildren will not receive good care in the future. The reforms in the housing market have helped to improve the housing market. But the cabinet didn't do that alone, of course. The main reason that things are going well with the Netherlands is that everyone really has put their hands on it. All those people who, despite setbacks, stand up every morning and make sure that things get better and better. It is the policeman who is still working in the middle of the night, the district nurse who is on his way for day and dew, the plasterer who gives young people too long on the sidelines a second chance in his company. They make sure that the Netherlands is doing better every day. But that doesn't mean we're already here. 'Cause not everyone feels like the country's getting better. A lot of people are still uncertain about their homes, their jobs, their future. The task before us is clear in that respect. Every Dutchman must start to feel better in his own environment. And that's not easy. Because your life is more than just a purchasing power picture. The fact that things are moving in the right direction in our own country does not mean that we can face the rest of the world with equal enthusiasm. That world has become more uncomfortable in recent years. The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 brought an end to a Cold War that held the world in its grip for decades. The next period of geopolitical stability seems to be over forever. We see this close to home because of the rising tensions between Russia and Europe. The attitude of the Russians on the eastern borders of the territory of both the European Union and NATO is reminiscent of the Cold War. Where the Arab spring initially seemed to bring relief to North Africa and the Middle East, there is now widespread chaos and misery. Chaos of which we have also felt the consequences in the Netherlands in recent years. The uncontrolled flow of refugees who came to Europe from the Middle East via Turkey led, understandably, to tensions in our own society. Of course, the agreements with Turkey on the reception of refugees are not perfect, but they have made sure that the uncontrollable influx of refugees is contained. If it's up to the VVD, we're going to make similar agreements with countries in North Africa. We do not do that because we like it or because they are nice countries, but because the alternative is really indigestible. If we allow smugglers to continue to enter Europe, people will continue to drown in the Mediterranean. Geopolitical changes are not limited to our eastern borders or the Mediterranean. China's increasing assertiveness in the South China Sea also leads the United States to increasingly focus on that part of the world. This means that we in Europe will have to do more of our own business. Decades of cuts in defence, including in other European countries, have prevented us from doing so in some cases. With the shifting of geopolitical relations, we must realise that we cannot afford this laxity anymore. This means that in the future we need to free up more money for defence by increasing to the average in the neighbouring countries. We will have to work with other countries. In order for this cooperation to be successful, we need to be able to operate both in the high and low spectrum of violence. The southern borders of the European Union are also our borders. Refugees trying to reach Greece or Italy are not looking to stay there. In many cases, countries in northern Europe are the final goal. We therefore have an interest in ensuring that these borders are properly monitored. The same applies to the eastern borders of Europe. A clear deterrent force in the eastern Member States of the European Union and NATO also enhances our security. In order to be credible in dealing with these changes, we need to work with like-minded countries. This can be done both within NATO and within the European Union, but cooperation must not be allowed to be used as an excuse. Over the next few decades, we will have to invest heavily in our own armed forces. The same applies to police and security services. No one can guarantee that there will never be an attack in the Netherlands, but we do have an expensive duty to minimize that opportunity. The need for services is both material and legal. They must indicate what is necessary to be able to do their job properly. Nevertheless, it is also obvious here to seek cooperation with other countries. Terror knows no bounds. Terrorist organizations such as IS do not adhere to borders. Cooperation is therefore essential to combat terrorism. Cooperation between countries is important, but is never an end in itself. Unfortunately, we are seeing a decline in the acceptance of cooperation in Europe in all countries. In order to increase that confidence, the European Union must therefore focus on those things that we really need to deal with together. As far as we are concerned, the internal market, which provides trade and employment, is a very good example of this. However, if we are to stand by while the European Union is going through some points in its desire to influence the lives of ordinary people in detail, then we should not be surprised when people turn against it. European cooperation has contributed greatly to a long period of peace and prosperity, and we would like to keep it that way. Our Dutch achievements are even more important in this respect. The right to live your life the way you want, to love whoever you want, to marry whoever you want. Our freedoms have been severely fought. We must cherish, defend and protect them. This means that we must not be tolerant to intolerance. For us, as politicians, it is not only by rules, but also by words. When people cross the line, we address them to explain where we stand, what we find and how we deal with each other in this country. People who want to settle in the Netherlands must subscribe to our values. You can't claim the right to freedom of speech if you deny someone else that right. I said at the beginning that we cannot yet be satisfied. The Netherlands is better but we are not there yet. Not until everyone feels we're on the right track, I'm satisfied. We must be able to offer new assurances to those who are now uncertain about the future. In health care, in the labour market, in the housing market and in education. Let me start with the care. I see people are worried. Is the nursing home where my mom or dad is going, okay? Is caring for my kids gonna be affordable? Do I get the care I need if anything happens to me? Now our curative care is among the best in the world, but the combination of an ageing population and new medicines and techniques that become available every year means that costs will continue to increase in the coming years. We want everyone to have access to good and affordable care now, but also in the future. This means that we must continue to agree on the increase in costs. It simply cannot be that in 2040 someone should spend almost half of his income on care. Long-term care has changed a lot. We have organized the care closer, and I am more optimistic about this than my colleague from the CDA so that anyone who wants it can stay at home for as long as possible, because in your own familiar environment it is the best in the end. That is why people who end up in a nursing home should be able to feel at home as much as possible. All nursing homes just need to be as good as the best nursing home. We don't understand why we can't. In the labour market, it is important that anyone who can and wants to work can also find a job. In doing so, we realize that the job for life is no longer as self-evident as it used to be. In fact, it almost doesn't exist anymore. This brings uncertainty to many people, because a life full of jobs feels different than a job for life. So we really need to move from job security to job security. However, it should be more attractive for employers to offer a fixed contract and tailor-made work between you and your employer should be possible. If a small employer knows that you can also say goodbye if it turns out that it doesn't work, he will be more willing to keep you on duty if it turns out that it just works. If your employer is satisfied with you, but it does not dare to offer you a permanent contract due to circumstances, it is a shame if you are forced to say goodbye to each other by too rigid legislation. Those who opt for self-employment must also have the space to make their own choices. The tax authorities must indeed create clear conditions for what is and must not be allowed. Looking at self-employment is what you do, but really enterprising people give you space. In addition, if you get up every morning to go to work, that work really has to produce something. If you work hard, you should be able to reap the benefits of it yourself. The cabinet took the first step last year by reducing the burden, but that should not be the last step if it is up to the VVD. As far as we are concerned, the burden on labour needs to be reduced further in the future. The same applies to the burdens that are currently imposed on entrepreneurs. By lowering the burden for them too, there is room to grow. Growth is ultimately the only way to create more jobs. The security of a job and access to care are important, but a nice place for yourself, your husband, your wife, your children is at least as important. Fortunately, in recent years, the market for housing has recovered well. People dare to buy a house again. That is why rest in the housing market is important, because if people are worried about the housing market they will stay longer in a house that may not fit their personal situation at all. Young people want to live more often when children come, while older people may need a home where they can also live if they are really old. Living is more than four walls, a floor and a roof. In your own street or neighborhood, you must feel safe. Your kids should be able to play outside and when you walk the dog on the street at night, you shouldn't feel unsafe. Of course, the police come when something is really going on, but also against nuisance, mess and antisocial behavior must be dealt with. Because, once again, in your own home, you have to feel at home. In order to decorate your life as you wish, you must be able to make a good start in that life. Good and accessible education is, of course, a fundamental condition. A lot of people wonder if their son or daughter will be able to find a job. I get that. Because how do you organise good education if the training for tomorrow's job doesn't exist today? Lifelong learning doesn't start when we get out of school. We will have to respond more quickly to the changes in our society in our education. The Dutch are enthusiastic and positive, but also incredibly stubborn. And we're in good shape together. But if we want you to make the most of yourself, we also need to make sure that those entrepreneurial, social and digital skills come back to school. If we teach children how to think about solutions, they will soon be able to come up with these new jobs themselves. I am proud of all the people who have put their shoulders on it in recent years. They have ensured that the Netherlands has fought out of the crisis. They have also made things better for our country, and now we have to make everyone feel that way. We must offer new assurances so that they can get the best out of themselves. Finally. A look outside sometimes also calls for a small look inside, for reflection, for our role and our parliamentary system. I am sometimes quite concerned about that and my group is with me. I see a First Chamber sitting in the seat of the Lower House more often than in the past by talking about policy much more often and less about the solidity of laws. By the way, I also see a Lower House where you don't seem to belong anymore if you don't put an initiative law in your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u21	I'm gonna have to take a walk, and that's gonna take me a while to get to the mic. I shall go back to the point Mrs Jorritsma just made, namely that everyone must be able to participate and that labour must pay. Now there are situations known of people who, for example, will earn €10,000 more at a given time, of which €355 per year will be left. In other words, the tax burden is sometimes disproportionately divided. Does Mrs Jorritsma think that the cabinet should do something about this, particularly when it comes to people at the bottom of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u22	I assume you're talking about the breadwinners. A rather fundamental choice has been made that we no longer apply principles of breadwinner in this country. In some cases, that means you're in a bad situation. We can never give guarantees, and that is what I have said in my story: 'Everyone fits into every purchasing power picture'. Neither are you and me. Most of the time, we don't fit in. And yes, I always think that the Cabinet should take a good look at that, that you should try to correct where it can, but if a system brings disadvantages to some situations, you can also imagine that people are going to make other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u23	I think it is very special that Mrs Jorritsma states that the cabinet may have to look at it if this creates extreme situations. I will make that clear in the course of today, on the basis of an example put forward by Secretary of State Wiebes, which shows that someone who earns €22,000 and goes to €32,000 a year about that extra €10,000 gets so many stacked problems that he gets €355. So I hope that this is one of those situations that Mrs Jorritsma thinks is really awesome and that the cabinet should do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u24	You're going to ask the cabinet the question. It seems a little too much to ask me to answer that. We also have a lot of regulations in this country where people drop out at some point when they leave the bottom of the labour market. So every time the problem of poverty falls. Yeah, that's a tough problem. It is a choice that you sometimes make to help people at the bottom of society in such a way that they can lead an independent life. So that automatically means that if you choose to do so, that's how it goes. You can also make another choice. Anyway, we're gonna talk about that later. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u25	I give the floor to Mr Kox, Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. I just need to get used to the fact... sorry, sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u27	I would also like to speak through the President if you are debating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u28	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u29	Madam President. May I ask Mrs Jorritsma to clarify some of the criticisms she has about the functioning of our Parliament. She began her story by saying that the groups of the VVD and those of the PvdA had the courage to join the coalition. She thus qualified the rest, who is thus in the opposition, as standing by the sidelines and not to matter. Next, Mrs Jorritsma said just now that she thinks that this Chamber sits too much on the seat of the House of Representatives and as a bonus on top of that she told in her last sentence that you apparently no longer count in the House of Representatives if you do not deal with an initiative law. I think that's a lot of criticism. We agreed, on a proposal from my colleague, Mr Duthler, to set up a state committee on parliamentary systems. That seems extremely useful to me, but to now qualify the opposition as standing by the sidelines, to qualify this house as playing Lower House and criticize colleagues across the street that they are using a fundamental right, I think all go a little far. Perhaps Mrs Jorritsma has an underlying argument for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox now goes all the way back to the beginning of my speech. I only note that what happened was that all parties in the House of Representatives thought that VVD and PvdA should try it together. Yes, I've made a conclusion to that. That makes sense to me, too. Moreover, a great deal has happened after that in which all kinds of parties in coalitions have participated. I am very happy about that, but it could have been different. Then I come to the other subject. I'm not saying we're always sitting in the seat of the House of Representatives. I say carefully that I see a First Chamber that sits in the seat of the House of Representatives more often than in the past. This may also have to do with the current political situation. But I often see in committees, sometimes in this Chamber too, the question of policy debates. I think that a First Chamber should be very reluctant to allow or accept policy debates. Sometimes there's a discussion about that. I am not going to say that this is only from the opposition, because I fear that my own group is just as involved in this from time to time. So it's something that should keep us all busy. In addition, I think the right of initiative of the Lower House is very important. Let there be no misunderstanding about that, but I see that 25 legislative proposals were tabled last year and they are really not based on the fact that a cabinet did not want to submit anything. That is actually the normal route of an initiative legislative proposal. A legislative proposal belongs, of course, to the executive, unless... I miss that 'unless' very often in today's initiative legislative proposals. In fact, I think it is a subject that should be addressed by the State Committee. I am going to say that in a moment, but Mr Kox has not given me the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u31	I am pleased that Mrs Jorritsma nuances the story she gave at the beginning of her speech. She did say at the time that whoever was not in the coalition was on the sidelines and didn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u32	I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u33	Well, that's the advantage of having big ears. I have heard it, but you can read it yourself in your text. Any reflection is never wrong. Next, you say that this Chamber will sit more often in the seat of the House of Representatives and request more policy debates. I've been walking with this for a while, but I certainly don't think that's the case. I think the opposite is the case. And then you say: yes, using the right of initiative in the Lower House should remain an exception. I do not think it is appropriate for us in this Chamber to criticise what is happening across the street, which is fully in line with the rights of the House of Representatives. We should not take the rights of the Lower House, as the Lower House should not try to take our rights away from us. The criticism of the VVD group that we would do too much what the Lower House wants and at the same time say that the Lower House should not do what it wants is a bit of a curious construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u34	In my view, we have general considerations here and the intention is that you should be able to say something about the system. We have asked for a state commission. I hope, moreover, that this question will be put immediately to the cabinet and that it will be set up soon so that it can get to work. I therefore think that the Court should make comments on matters which you think should be looked at again. Moreover, in addition to the number of proposals for own-initiative legislation submitted, I also notice that such proposals are increasingly not covered at all, not to mention that they are subject to any discussion. I would like to know from the cabinet, through you, Mr Kox, to reflect on that. This is what I arrived at the end of my speech. So I actually have two problems. One is that I would like to hear from the cabinet how it deals with uncovered legislative initiative proposals. Is there a fixed procedure for that or is that different? Secondly, I would be very pleased if the State Committee, when it comes to work, would also look into how to deal with legislative proposals on its own initiative. I think it is very important that the right of initiative remains a good right. There are now a lot of such legislative proposals at the Council of State sometimes endlessly because they do not know what to do with them at all. There are also those we will never see again. That is, in my opinion, an erosion of that right instead of a reinforcement. Of course, I understand that that needs to be looked at first. I will not make any further proposals, because that is not up to me. By the way, I also think that everyone should form an opinion. In fact, I think that only the cabinet should be reluctant to do so. It is a bit of a pity that something has been said about it from that side too, but Members of Parliament should be able to express their views on ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u35	I myself would think that we should talk about our own working methods in the First Chamber rather than constantly talking about the House of Representatives. I do not really understand Mrs Jorritsma's timing. We talked about this in detail last year, didn't we? We discussed this in detail two years ago. There's a joint letter from both chambers. There's gonna be a state commission. I'm gonna have to ask the Cabinet when. So why are you bringing all this up now? Anything happen in the last week I missed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u36	No, not at all. I have only followed what has been dealt with in this Chamber over the last few months, and I have come to the conclusion that, as far as I am concerned, this issue can also be included on the agenda of the State Committee. So that's changed. There's been a lot of treatment in this room. We have spent a great deal of time and attention on a whole range of legislative initiatives. I couldn't help noticing that. I have only noticed that the number is growing and that it is a question of whether that is a good development. Well, let's think about it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u37	I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. A month and a half ago, the King gave the sermon on the throne. I would like to address the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the text. I ignore the constitutional impurity that the Prime Minister allowed the Head of State to speak about the support of the 'opposition parties'. I was particularly struck by the sound of the speech of the throne. Extraordinary introvert. In short, it came down to this: outside the wind swirls around the house, inside the stove stands at four. Home Satisfaction in the autumn storm. It was striking, for example, in the speech of the throne that the risks to our economy come mainly from abroad: China, Brazil and the United Kingdom. Like there's nothing wrong with our domestic economy. As if our labour market is functioning perfectly. As if innovation and research are optimally stimulated. As if our education offers equal opportunities for disadvantaged people. As if our tax system is not in urgent need of revision in order to reduce the burden on labour and to increase greening. As if those more than half a million jobseekers, including more than 200,000 long-term unemployed, were hit by foreign nationals. There is a complacency that I can only explain from the upcoming elections to the House of Representatives. Is there no reason for satisfaction four months before the voter is allowed to speak? Well, not really, but for some optimism. Of course, in recent years, the cabinet, together with the constructive part of the two Chambers, has pursued sensible policies in various areas. I spoke about this last year, and I congratulated the cabinet on that. I'd be happy to repeat that here, too. The Netherlands has slowly crawled out of the crisis. Unemployment is falling, but long-term unemployment too often means hopeless. The cabinet can also pass on the economic tide, albeit that many of the gifts seem nicely packaged surprises without substance: more money for elderly care, nursing homes or police actually means too often the deletion of previously announced cuts. And it is stark that a cabinet that wants to promote equal opportunities in education does not want or can reverse reversals in the Ministry of Education. See the motion Pechtold from the House of Representatives, which has not yet been carried out, at this point. Unfortunately, a lot has also stayed down. Last year it became clear that the cabinet was on its way to the exit. A slow process because none of the coalition parties wanted to break up prematurely, but there was hardly any desire to really rule together. Examples too much. Last year we saw the inability to sustainably review the tax system, although this is so necessary. The labour market also requires redesign: the difference in protection between fixed and flexible employment contracts is far too great, also under the difficult legislation of Minister Asscher. Productivity growth is stagnating. Diversity is a problem, just like the odds for 50-plussers. The legislation for thezzp'ers is downright disastrous: false self-employment is hardly tackled and self-elected self-employed people are mostly thwarted. You'd want to go back to the VAR on your own. I hear VVD politicians complaining, but the Prime Minister pretends it's not his concern. Another recent example is the National Science Agenda. Two years ago, the cabinet asked the research community to make a concrete agenda for the next ten years. It came with a great input from citizens, businesses, scientists and civil society organisations. The cabinet then received an investment agenda based on it, supported by everyone, from KNAW to VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands, from TNO to the unified knowledge institutions and with great enthusiasm from all scientists and researchers. This agenda makes our country more excellent in research, more innovative in applications and even better in the connection of science with major societal tasks; therefore social and economic of great importance. This requires a structural boost of EUR 1 billion. The most recent Nobel Prize winner in the Netherlands has also rightly mentioned this amount. And what does this government do? I regret to say that the great leap forward is being pushed into the next cabinet and a minimum fund of 20 to 30 million is being created by redeployment of existing scientific resources. A very thin beginning, just as the cultural balding of the Rutte I cabinet from a few years ago is softened. My group has seen little ambition in the past year, and that is a pity. In the coming months, I fear, the main theme will be the polishing up of political legacy and perhaps the formulation of associated wills. The Prime Minister and his Deputy Prime Minister are already working on other things: his party's campaign in one case and his party's list leader campaign in the other. In both cases it is a rare instructive spectacle. The Prime Minister is acting in party commercials with the text "I have a plan." The content of this remains in the dark, and in that it is also very similar to his vision. But that aside: presenting a plan after six years of government, isn't that something like presenting the menu when the dessert has just been cleared? And then the Deputy Prime Minister: standing in the hall of General Affairs after the meeting of the Council of Ministers, he calls the Prime Minister's election programme "the betrayal of the middle class." Here, too. Apart from the question of how pure this is all state law, it worked mainly on the laughing muscles. Betrayal, then you get the bridge. You don't want to be associated with that for another day, do you? Then you step out of the cabinet. But of course that did not happen, and that is how we ended up in a political twilight zone in which a cabinet continues without real rule and the leaders of our country make a effort to pretend. Pretend they haven't ruled in great harmony for four years, but are actually each other's inheritors. Pretend there are plans ready to do it completely differently once they are in charge. The government stated in its speech that we have a strong rule of law in the Netherlands. That is not enough, of course, if it is. The foundations of our rule of law are still strong, but the structure does have cracks. Public confidence in all three pillars of the democratic rule of law appears to be reduced. The parliament that seems to be shattering and permanently on the defensive. The judiciary under pressure of political distrust and financial constraints. And the executive power that swoons back and forth in the permanent search for effective and affordable steering. Then again make ministries smaller, implement remotely and what is business-like organization. And then again startled by the consequences and the minor influence of the minister or secretary of state and thus again independent administrative bodies under curatel and ProRail back in the loft of I and M although everyone in the rail sector thinks that total nonsense and unfortunately doesn't change it any faster. It's some sort of pendulum movement, a fashion. Because what is already under political responsibility is not necessarily performing better. For example, the Secretary of State for Finance is now putting an additional Deputy Secretary-General next to the Director-General of the Tax Administration because it is not going well enough. The IRS is a state in the state, not a state outside the state. The national police established in the past period shows how difficult it is to control large molochs, regardless of the precise embedding inside or outside the state service. Sometimes it just doesn't seem like a good alternative, even if it's the question whether we didn't do it all too quickly with the police. That was certainly the case with the transition to Security and Justice. In this context, I deeply regret the fact that the cabinet did not implement my broad-based motion last year to prepare for the return of police management under BZK and thus to get a clear Ministry of Justice. It's like someone wants another bloated department in the future. I spoke about the pressure on the judiciary, that unshakable and independent pillar of the rule of law. Access to justice has not become easier, although we have managed to prevent further increases in registry fees. There is a constant debate on the resources available to the judiciary to compete with other operational expenditure, although according to the law, justice should be given as much money as is necessary to give good and timely justice. Moreover, the funding system is too rigid to take into account emerging workload and necessary innovation. In our view, the cabinet did not take sufficient account of this, as it tried too easily to restrict legal aid. A stain on the blazon, this VVD damage, as NRC commentator Jensma recently called it. It is also worrying that the judge is not always trusted in his judgment by a part of the population. Some politicians are willing to cooperate. They just don't speak of fake judges when the trial or the verdict doesn't go well, but I'm afraid that's what they're talking about. A strong rule of law is therefore a matter for discussion. It is our joint mission to uphold and strengthen that rule of law, not only through money, although we welcome additional money that will finally be available for law enforcement and justice, but above all because of our attitude. Part of a strong rule of law is, of course, also a vital democracy. One can't do without the other. Our democratic system, with the parliamentary system at its core, is not all threatened by overdue large-scale maintenance, but also sometimes by virulent attacks of populism. Within and outside Parliament, populists seem to find representative democracy obsolete, from and for elites and not from and for the people. I am the last person to believe that our representative democracy is flawless. My party has repeatedly made proposals for improvement, I might add to the bleeding. These were always based on the principle of representation and the strengthening of the mandate of the individual representative of the people. In our view, forms of direct democracy make sense if they are complementary to that principle rather than undermining it. That is why, for example, a correct and, preferably, decisive referendum will always only serve as an emergency brake on parliamentary decision-making, not as a kind of remplaçant, as a weapon that you take out every day in order to circumvent the representatives of the people. We will have to discuss this in depth in the evaluation of the Law on the Consultative referendum. By the way, when can we look forward to this evaluation? In this context, I would like to say a few words about the cabinet letter on the consultative referendum on 6 April. We have been waiting a long time for the cabinet. It's almost crazy when the calves dance on the ice. In the letter, the cabinet outlines a path which, in its opinion, is perhaps passable, a difficult journey between the objections of the no-sayers and the European and geopolitical reality. Now that the consultative referendum is not a digital decision, but a heavy opinion which must be given due substance, my group will wait for this last attempt, although it has all taken a long time. A substantive assessment will have to wait until something is really there, legislation of any kind. I do have one more question. The Prime Minister surprised me on Friday with his very personal broadcasting and his dramatic words about the unity of Europe, Putin and also Syria. I'm asking him, "Why didn't you just do it now?" Why didn't he show his leadership eight months ago, in the debate before the referendum? Statemanship, I think, is also a question of timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u39	To be clear, the D66 Group Presidency says that it will not be discussed until there is something to it. I can understand the CDA line very well. However, I understand from the media that in this House last week there has been consultation with the groups of D66 and the CDA on possible support. Can Mr De Graaf tell us more about this or is that an example of 'the newspaper brings the lies into the country'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u40	I would say that what has just been said is known to the Prime Minister. Democracy is more than the sum of most votes, as populists often think. It is a layered system that connects voters to the exercise of power. You can do better than that. It also allows for careful balancing of interests and protection of minorities. We can improve that layered democracy, but we must also protect it. That is why the State Committee, to which this Chamber took the initiative, is important. Both chambers have now asked the government to set up them. How's that going? Is he going to honour the promise he made here two years ago, always a delicate word, of course, this cabinet period? Can we therefore assume that the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations does not take his personal ideas as guidance for the mission of the State Commission, but simply what is in the letter from the two Chambers? Popularism not only infects our Dutch democracy, but I also fear the whole Western world. There is a desire for strong men and there is almost manic distrust in the built-up democratic institutions. What's happening in America now is unprecedented. Even if Trump is not elected next week, the country is divided, with citizens who seem to hate each other, their political candidates and their democratic procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr De Graaf has now spoken a number of times about populism. That's an interesting subject. I also very much agree with him. Wouldn't it be nice to call a little more man and horse in that context? Anyone who reads further than the name of my party is long knows that we are the party of man and horse. Perhaps Mr De Graaf can specify which parties in Dutch politics embody populism, which parties do not, and whether one party is worth less democratically than the other. That'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u42	If Mr Koffeman is in the party of man and horse, he can think of it himself. There is also such a wonderful proverb about the shoemaker. I'd say if the shoe fits... Let America not set an example in this respect for Europe. Here too, instability and inward orientation can be observed. Under pressure from the refugee crisis, these trends have only become more acute. We have said goodbye to the long peace and to the end of history proclaimed by Fukuyama, as my colleague Mr Hermaner has said. At the same time, we must face up to various threats: the Syria crisis, where peace talks are not about to happen and a humanitarian disaster is taking place before our eyes, a new Russian imperialism that threatens at least the autonomy of the former Soviet states, including states belonging to NATO and the European Union, and a waiting and uncertain attitude of the United States where a new isolationism seems to be paying off. What kind of leadership does that require? My group believes that a more active external security policy is needed, in which the Netherlands takes a clear position and systematically invests in the European Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP). For example, in the coming years, we could use our temporary Security Council seat as a European seat together with the Italians. The same should apply to the French permanent seat. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet for a response. The Netherlands should also endeavour to involve the United Kingdom as much as possible in this policy, because Brexit was not about that. I also like to get a reaction to this. Against Putin's imperialism, his own Dutch lifted finger is bitterly helping little. The Russian response to the MH17 disaster investigation report alone makes that clear. A strong Europe is essential. The same applies to a common policy on the reception and admission of refugees. Last year, a large part of our debate was on the refugee crisis and the reception of asylum seekers. The urgency seems less great now, but that can just turn around, if only because we trust a very fragile deal with the autocrat Erdogan too easily. Will this deal stand if Turkey re-introduces the death penalty? Europe is 'under construction'. It's obvious. Brexit has taken us on an unknown path, leaving aside how happy the British themselves are about their decision afterwards: more of a Torn Up than a United Kingdom. In an unstable world, a strong Europe is needed, but there are also more than enough internal reasons for furthering a strong union. The discontent and uncertainty of many people over a rapidly shrinking world with open markets and clashing cultures are often projected into the European Union, but in my view this is less related to the decision-making process by the national states themselves. Instead of breaking down the European Union, we may have to make a step forward in other areas. Sometimes it may also be necessary to work with leading groups and to apply different speeds. That is not necessarily an impassable road, but perhaps a difficult one. Really impenetrable is a Nexit. Everything that makes the Netherlands such an open, internationally oriented and prosperous country opposes this. Some time after 15 March 2017, a new cabinet will take office. Much has been said in recent years about the significance of the First Chamber because of the lack of a clear majority of the coalition here. Some have even argued in favour of involving this Chamber in the formation. For the record, I am not in favour of that. This makes government formation unnecessarily complicated and only leads to deliberation here becoming more and more similar to that of the other side. I believe that the First Chamber has shown in recent years that it is a political chamber, but that it is not a duplicate of the Second Chamber. It is often about some other key elements: sustainable legislation, consistency, feasibility, social impact, constitutional logic and compatibility with legal principles. D66 will also examine the proposals of a subsequent cabinet, regardless of their composition. But our empathy is likely to be greater when that cabinet tackles the major issues that remain. I am referring not only to the above-mentioned issues but also to the creation of equal opportunities in society, perhaps in the first place. Too much is missing, and this is becoming apparent on the labour market, but it is already beginning much earlier in education. There is a major task to be accomplished in the coming years: tackling low-literacy, pre-school education, talent development of each pupil, follow-up to Platform Education2032, countering class segregation, diversity in front of class and more attention to social return rather than economic return. The next cabinet may see this as a key task.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, and without any irony to the members of this cabinet, I would like to thank you for your efforts over the last few years. I wish you a fruitful last few months, even in cooperation with this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. 2017 will be a special year. We will remember that it was 100 years ago that the basis for parliamentary democracy was laid as we know it today. With the 1917 Constitutional change, the Cort van der Linden cabinet put an end to two political battle points that had torn apart Dutch politics for decades: the school struggle and the struggle for universal suffrage. Freedom of education was enshrined in the Constitution. The universal right to vote for men and the right to stand as a candidate for women were introduced, and the constitutional obstacle to active women's right to vote was lifted. The district system was replaced by proportional representation, allowing small minorities to make their voices heard in parliament. The Cort van der Linden cabinet, with the last Liberal Prime Minister until the current tower was involved, consisted of liberal ministers who could do their job because they were tolerated by the SDAP and regularly concluded even wider coalitions. But even with tolerance, that cabinet could not count on a majority in the First Chamber. And that cabinet had to find a solution for the reception of 1 million refugees, of a population of 6.6 million, who were seeking a good return in the safe Netherlands for the unprecedented slaughter that was taking place on just one day's walk from our border. The circumstances in which the Rutte II cabinet has had to do its work in recent years are, of course, difficult to compare with those of 100 years ago. But there are unmistakably parallels. Liberals and Social Democrats also chose to cooperate with each other, other political parties and civil society for pragmatic reasons and under pressure from circumstances. They did so in order to bridge political differences on issues that have sometimes been dragging on for decades, because major social and international problems required priority. The most important task for this cabinet was, of course, to lead our country out of the biggest economic crisis in 80 years in a responsible way, and that within the European cooperation that brought so much to our country after the Second World War. Restoring employment, bringing people's perspective back. And arrange shelter for the tens of thousands of people who are looking for a safe home in the Netherlands for the unprecedented slaughter that is taking place on just over a day's drive from our border. The Millions note for next year shows that the Rutte II cabinet has largely succeeded in its task. Our economy is growing again. Unemployment is steadily declining. Fortunately, this also happens more and more quickly among older people. Public finances are once again practically in balance. The housing market is growing and consumer confidence is in the elevator. Thanks to measures taken by the cabinet, the whole of the Netherlands will improve purchasing power next year. The minimum youth wage is going up. The coalition between VVD and PvdA is a marriage of convenience, but these are not rarely more lasting than compelling, high-wave romances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mrs Barth points out that there are gradually fewer unemployed. However, reports also show that it is mainly flexible work that is still increasing. Relatively, the proportion of permanent work is still falling, despite the Work and Security Act. You can ask questions about the name of that law. How does Mrs Barth feel about that? Does it see any possibility for this cabinet to reverse this and to make sure that employers have less cold feet when taking on permanent employment? What should the government do for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u45	I would like to come back to a number of proposals later in my speech to narrow the gap between fixed work and flexible work. Apart from that, I say that the Work and Security Act introduced by this cabinet is really a trend break compared to what was built up decades before in the Netherlands. A trend break isn't just one day in front of everyone in the country. So I think it is very important that the principles laid down in the Work and Security Act are maintained and that we make it clear to employers that it is not only important to employ people on a permanent basis because it is good for their business and for those people, but that it is also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mrs Barth says it takes longer to bring about such a change. The question is really whether that law does not have a counterproductive effect before, because it would show to a lesser extent an accelerated effect. I am very curious to see how she thinks about this and the proposals she will make later and whether they can make any changes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u47	In my opinion, the signals that show that the Work and Security Act is counterproductive mainly come from employers who much prefer to choose the easy route. Personally, I do not think that is a reliable source. I certainly agree with Mrs Strik that it is necessary to take further steps to reduce the distinction between flexible and stable employment in the Netherlands and to ensure that more people in the Netherlands are in permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u48	I would like to hear Mrs Barth's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u49	I had stayed at the stable marriage between the VVD and the Labour Party. By being open to input and cooperation with other political parties and civil society, political stability has been able to counter economic turbulence and uncertainty. However, it all continues to balance at the sharpest of the cuts. The recovery is unmistakable, but it is also unmistakably fragile. For example, the persistently low interest rates put enormous pressure on the purchasing power of older people and the prospects of young people due to the negative effects on pension funds, but it also carries a high risk of new bubbles, for example on the housing market. The opportunities for young people at permanent employment are far too small, thus depriving them of their space to build a solid life with a responsible balance between work and care. Unemployment among Dutch people with a migrant background remains worryingly persistent and high, leaving people of good will excluded in an unacceptable way. But above all: too few Dutch people also experience that our country is doing better. Recent figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau (SCP) show that many citizens are concerned. They are well aware that they live in a privileged corner of the world and they are willing to work hard to keep it that way. By far the majority of Dutch people indicate that they are happy in their personal lives. But they're worried about our society, about how we live together in the world and in our country. They see the threats of a turbulent world, in which the optimism after the fall of the Berlin Wall has replaced fear of unscrupulous violence and immoral or irresponsible behavior of some, sometimes even influential, political and economic leaders. They feel powerless against developments such as globalisation, robotisation, climate change and pollution. They are awake from the opportunities for their children, the care of their parents, and differences between citizens, both socio-economic and in standards and values, who have the potential to tear up our society. As the SCP summarizes the concerns of many people: I'm fine, but not with us. The Labour Party sees developments that make the headaches of many compatriots very understandable. We feel these concerns ourselves, for example, about the international political situation. The war in Syria, which is as desperate as it is desperate. The international community is failing to stop the violence. Should the Netherlands, as we ask the Prime Minister, not choose a much more active position to help end the civil war? We have a personal interest in that too. We do not see many refugees in countries like Russia, which merely fuel the conflict. In any case, there seems to be no limit to the cynicism with which Vladimir Putin and his international politics are engaged. An ancient wisdom says that it is enough for the existence of evil in the world that good people do nothing. On its own, the Netherlands doesn't turn out much against fireplaces like in Syria. However, the Netherlands can invest fully in the European Union's capacity to act. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? What else can the Netherlands and Europe do? Is the urgency felt enough in Brussels? The course of the campaign for the American presidential elections, which drags from low to low, makes many citizens and businesses uncertain, including in the Netherlands. Just like the course of events around the Brexirefreendum, in which politicians turned out to have no plan B, or actually no plan A, and politicians from the Leave Camp only admitted after the outcome that they had consistently lied about the costs and revenues of a Brexit. It will also worry many Dutch about what politicians still mean to society. And yes, that's bad. In a high-trust society like the Dutch still is, citizens expect politicians to work with truthfulness and idealism for the common good. Who else would do that? Moreover, the uncertainty caused by irresponsible behaviour by politicians is also bad for the economy. For example, the expected growth in the Netherlands for next year has been adjusted downwards by 0.4% due to the Brexit. That's unnecessary, and that makes it all the more painful. In that whimsical and unpredictable world, it is undoubtedly to be praised that Minister Koenders has indicated that he wants to work for a new impetus in the world's release of nuclear weapons. Nuclear disarmament has not been a sexy subject since the end of the Cold War. But it is important, especially in the knowledge that men like Putin, Kim Jong-un and possibly Trump manage the red buttons. We regard our country's abstention last week in the UN General Assembly, where all the other NATO countries voted against a conference on the release of nuclear weapons from the world as a positive signal. However, we have read on the UN website that the expectation is that countries that voted against or abstained will not support any agreements resulting from such a conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u50	I'm trying to follow logic. I thought the chairman of the PvdA group was going to say that she was disappointed with the Dutch action at the United Nations, but the fact that we abstained explains it in such a way that we have shown that we are better than the rest of Europe, which voted against it. It is strange that, while I believe that more than 130 countries have said 'we want this conference to start', the Labour Party, which has always been a great supporter of this form of disarmament and at least the start of the discussion on this subject, now that the attitude 'we are not there, we say nothing' explains as a positive sign and considers it to be more positive than what the rest of Europe has done. Why didn't the Netherlands just do what the House of Representatives instructed the government to do, with the support of your party, I think, namely vote for the reopening of these negotiations? What's so good about that? It is contrary to what the Labour Party wanted in the Lower House itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u51	As a PvdA we may be more likely to be happy with small steps forward than Mr Kox's party might traditionally be. In his question, Mr Kox refers twice to Europe as a context for the voting behaviour of the Netherlands. I would rather look at the context of NATO, the alliance we are members of, and that, when it comes to nuclear disarmament, it is just a little more relevant than European cooperation. All other NATO countries voted against such a conference and the Netherlands as the only country to abstain. We think that is a positive signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u52	Just so I'm clear. The House of Representatives adopts a motion asking for a vote to reopen the negotiations and start the conference. That is a very clear task, in line with what many parties in this country find and with what a citizens' initiative has promoted. Why don't you tell the government here: I am disappointed that you didn't do what Parliament asked you to do? Why do you explain that as a success? Indeed, you may go for the smaller successes and I will go for the bigger ones. But this is more of a dead sparrow, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u53	That is not the case, because the Netherlands has indeed made a statement in the NATO context by abstaining from voting. Our party naturally supports any attempt to achieve nuclear disarmament. That is why we are so pleased that Minister Koenders has indicated that he is still working very hard for this in the coming months. You really must be able to appreciate the voting behaviour in the international context. If all NATO countries vote unanimously against such a conference and one small country says 'we do not, we abstain', then the Netherlands does make a statement in the international community. I hope that I ask the Prime Minister that the assumption on the website that it abstains means that any agreements resulting from such a conference will not be supported by our country in advance is too short. Can the Prime Minister explain what concrete steps the cabinet intends to take in the coming months to promote nuclear disarmament? We also find it easy to understand that people in the Netherlands are concerned about the welfare state, and whether it remains affordable and accessible to everyone. The Dutch are well aware that the welfare state is invaluable for the prosperity and stability of our society. No one is invulnerable to the blows of life, but in the Netherlands you know that it doesn't just have to be taken care of. The welfare state makes an important contribution to a fair distribution of prosperity and has greatly increased the resilience of our country. The Cort van der Linden cabinet was still faced with famines. That that has become unimaginable in our country in three generations is a great achievement. As a PvdA, we consider the welfare state to be the masterpiece of social democracy. That is an important reason why the Rutte II cabinet has paid so much attention to making it more sustainable. Despite the picture that has been presented, government spending on care and social security has only increased over the last four years. But the government has managed to control the rate of growth, and that is invaluable. It ensures that we will be able to pass the welfare state on to future generations. The welfare state is founded on solidarity. There are people who think that's an old-fashioned word. We believe that it is precisely a task to reaffirm the current value of solidarity. For example, controlling the costs of the welfare state seems to be contrary to solidarity. But that is essential in order to ensure the accessibility of the welfare state. If costs are too high, the pressure to build in thresholds or collect own contributions is increasing, as is the risk of opt-out. For us as PvdA, it is also clear that solidarity can never only be about people who need or receive something, but also about people who contribute, through taxes and premiums. For them, the welfare state should not become a pyramid game in which they have to put in, but cannot count on care and support for them when the time comes. This means that solidarity in the welfare state will soon have to be secured over a period of between 45 and 60 years; a 25-year-old person who now pays contributions and taxes will not retire for his 70th year and, according to statistics, will not make a strong use of long-term care until around the age of 85. Those who love the welfare state should never lose sight of this long term. And that's exactly what this cabinet has done. However, for a subsequent cabinet there are still more than one issue left. For example, we see how the welfare state scoop for shovel is eroded by the enormous advance of flexible and independent work. This growth is much faster in our country than in the countries around us, nor can it be explained by the overall development of employment and the economy. However, it undermines, piece by piece, the prosperity and resilience that we have been able to find in recent decades. For example, we see this with AOW and pensions:zzp'ers can compete people on a permanent basis because they are soon 20% cheaper if they do not charge pension contributions in their rates. But if they want to stop working themselves, their purchasing power falls dramatically, because they have to do it with only AOW. In other words, where people in permanent employment have paid more tax because they do not benefit from self-employment deductions. We believe that this development can only be stopped by treating self-employed and self-employed people more equally. Compulsory disability insurance for everyone. Equal tax treatment of self-employed and self-employed persons and compulsory pension provision for self-employed persons up to approximately one and a half times the average. Not to patronize people unnecessarily, but because taking care of each other has made our society so much stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u54	I can remember that the legal status ofzzp'ers during the previous elections was really an election theme and that the PvdA had a nice story at the time about more equalisation, more equal opportunities and better legal status. With the DBA Act, Mr De Graaf also talked about it, it has often become more difficult and insecure for zzp'ers. Now Mrs Barth comes up with a wonderful plan. What happened to the PvdA's ideas over the last four years? Why didn't I see the cabinet develop anything on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u55	I don't think the cabinet has developed nothing on this, but well, Mrs. Strik is a member of an opposition party and she will see it a little blacker than we do. The cabinet has come up with the Work and Security Act which harmonises dismissal and narrows the gap between people with permanent employment and people with flexible contracts. In addition, I think Mrs Strik is too quick to judge the DBA Act. This law has not even entered into force in full; its implementation is still under way. It's far too easy to say that law didn't work. Here again we hear mainly complaints from employers who are forced by these laws to deal better with their people than they did before. That is not a source on which you should be too easy to invoke when you say that those laws do not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u56	We look at the figures and we see that people are often dismissed with flexwork or that they do not even see their temporary contract extended. We hear thatzzp'ers get less work because of the fears of employers or companies that they will hire people or get obligations. Those are the facts. Those people end up in an uncertain position. I have now asked why nothing has been done in recent years with the plans that Mrs Barth has just unfolded to improve the position ofzzp'ers. Didn't she have a wonderful opportunity to realize it in this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u57	I get the feeling that I am repeating myself, also in relation to Mrs Strik's previous interruption. The cabinet has indeed taken measures to reduce the gap between fixed and flexible work. That is even one of the key points of the cabinet. Mrs Strik is really too quick to judge that these laws have not worked. In this question, it also refers to the attitude of employers that it would slow them down to employ more people on a permanent basis. However, there are not only willing employers who are willing to do so. They can easily hide behind stricter legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u58	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u59	We care about the effects. I regret that Mrs Barth keeps repeating herself, because I keep trying to change my question. I would like to know from Mrs Barth why she has not realised these beautiful plans that she has now unfolded over the past four years. It's about the position of thezzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u60	I'd better get back to my story. So we do not want this to be an unnecessary burden on people, but because good care for each other has made our society so much stronger. Because people sleep quieter when they know they're not alone in times of adversity. That is why our group is concerned about the government's decision to convert the average system in our pension system into a more individual structure. That costs a lot of money. Is it true that the cabinet wants to contribute as much as EUR 40 billion? Isn't it better to spend this money on other goals, such as the transition to renewable energy, or investment in education and especially vocational education, and research, or affordable housing and infrastructure maintenance? And how will the cabinet deal with the threatening reductions in pensions? Surely it cannot be explained that the funds have more money in cash than ever before and will probably have to be stamped. What is the Cabinet going to do, so we ask the Prime Minister to prevent it? A final point of great concern to many people I would like to address today is the way we deal with each other in our country. In the time of Cort van der Linden, social relations were predictable. Everyone knew their place, as it was called back then. But that was only positive for those born on top of the mountain. For all other people, those rock-solid social structures were suffocating, and far too many people took away all the space for personal development. Individualisation and emancipation have brought us a great deal after that. But it also makes people insecure, because it has become much more difficult to determine where you belong and to understand what fellow people are still able to talk to. Contemporary developments are added to that. Social media enable connections that were unthinkable only twenty years ago, but they also offer a platform for anonymous swearing, threatening and gossiping. And they make it easier for people to retreat into their own world, in which everyone finds and lives the same way, just like in the hiding place of a hundred years ago. Violence has fallen considerably in our society, but, if it does, it may come down all the harder. From nightlife violence to violence against public service providers such as ambulance workers, firefighters, conductors and bus drivers, to the threat of terrorism, it scares people. That the arrival of refugees at this time is a cause for concern is therefore quite understandable. It goes without saying that the Netherlands offers a safe haven to those who need it. But that also means the confrontation with a new group of people who are going to shape our society, without having any idea which way that will go. Over the past 50 years, new Dutch people have often enriched our country and worked hard on economic prosperity, but they also sometimes cross borders that are absolutely essential for the vast majority of Dutch people. It is therefore important for governments to be very clear and clear about these limits. For example: in order to participate in our country, everyone must master Dutch and know our history. And: equality between men and women or transgender; between gay and straight or bi; between white and black or coffee color; between believer and atheist or anything; between young and old or middle; between working and retired or seeking employment; between poor and rich or middle class; between sick and healthy or living with a limitation, that equality is unnegotiable. This is sometimes also good for people who have lived here for generations, to emphasize once again. It is precisely the clear drawing of boundaries that creates space for the search for connection. To be open and curious about each other, and those are the best remedies against fear and mistrust. We don't have to understand everything, but we have to understand. If we want a society in which everyone can choose their own path of life, then we all have to be able and willing to deal with differences. You can't start learning that young enough. Living well together in 2016 is not a simple task. That's why we should teach all the kids how to do that. Should citizenship and social studies, for example, not become compulsory subjects or final exams in primary and secondary education, so that every young person learns what is expected of him or her as an adult? That's how young people learn how to do it, live peacefully, deal with differences, negotiate, compromise, participate and exercise your right. Is this not indispensable for the quality of our society with so many different people in such a small country? We do not have the illusion that such a compulsory school course solves everything, but we are convinced that it will help to keep things together a bit. I'll come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mrs Barth's speech addresses me when it comes to the question of how we live together. Earlier she said that there is often the feeling "I am fine, but with society less." Then she dropped the term norms and values. That seems to me to be a theme for attention on the way to another period. Mrs Barth talked about the veiling and said that the period behind us has also ensured the production of norms and values, social peace, and that we are holding it together in this country. Anyway, I'll leave that there. Now my question. What is Mrs Barth's proposal? How can we better conduct the debate on standards and values together? Of course, education is important. Are there any institutions she's thinking about? Could she clarify this point a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u62	We believe that this step to make citizenship in primary and secondary education compulsory subjects and social studies even a compulsory final examination course will in any case ensure that no child grows up and the labour market enters or becomes a citizen of society, without at least having a basis of knowledge of how you do it and how we have managed it in our country. It begins with knowing your history, knowing your standards and values, knowing the rules of citizenship and parliamentary democracy. Citizenship also allows you to practice with children in applying it. So we think that will certainly help. But of course it is also important that people taking part in the social debate set a good example, that you respect the opinion of someone else. That you realize that freedom of expression is a very great asset in our country, which has been fought hard for, but that that freedom also includes the responsibility to treat fellow people with respect who have a different opinion than yourself. This is not only to be caught by rules and laws; this is also a question of setting an example and showing how we deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u63	Do I hear a plea for a new social discussion on these issues? Not everyone is in education. Newcomers in our country may not be emancipated through the educational circuit. Am I listening to an idea here about a new social conversation that we should have with each other? Would you support this if we wanted to take new steps in the period ahead? Fifteen years ago, we had a wide-ranging discussion in our country about what the WRR then called norms and values and the burden of behavior. In fact, you are touching that theme again. It's gotten a little forgotten, I guess. That is why I am asking you whether there is a need for a new period of discussion on social behaviour and standards and values in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u64	We think this is a good thing, also because you see that a lot of Dutch people are very worried about how we deal with each other. A very good way to deal with this is certainly to have a social debate about it and try to involve as many people as possible. At the same time, we also need to be a little sober and "softer" is perhaps the right word for what I want to say now. We see a lot of people who know how to treat each other properly in everyday life, but who suddenly throw the most horrible things into the country in the evening when they have three glasses of wine or beer on the Internet via chat rooms, via Twitter or social media. The next day when they're sober, they'll be embarrassed again. So, yeah, we should probably want to talk about this, too. If we want to have fun with each other in this country, and if we want to preserve the freedoms that we fought so hard for and which are so special when you look at the rest of the world, then we must be careful. This requires a contribution from every Dutchman when it comes to the people entering the Netherlands. We in the Labour Party believe that we should not make the mistake we have made earlier in this country. You can never invest too much in integration, because that helps to ensure that people can participate in society as soon as possible. And that they will do so within those harsh, undisputed limits of freedom, equality and solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u65	I agree with Mrs Barth. Drinking and driving doesn't go together and drinking and chatting. It's worth considering. I hope that this will not have any serious consequences for certain groups, because you can just keep tweeting, only the combination with drink is not good. Mrs. Barth said she's coming to a conclusion. Could she perhaps take the next question with her at that conclusion? She started by saying that the PvdA was rolled into a marriage of convenience with the VVD, but her argument was that it was over. I've rarely heard a PvdA man talk so lyrical about this cabinet. Mrs Barth welcomes that, because it is her concluding speech on four years of cabinet policy. Does this mean that the PvdA group in this Chamber, which will also be a large group after 15 March, believes that this cabinet policy should continue, should be involved in the elections, perhaps under the motto 'Let Asscher finish the Rutte job'? Or is it true for the PvdA: a pity, it was four years of great fun, but from March 15th, love is out and we are looking for new lovers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u66	It is a pity that Mr Kox is standing with his back in the cabinet, because he missed the glowing smile of the Prime Minister when he said that this coalition seems to be overwhelmed. What kind of coalition will come next year after the elections is up to the voters. I hate it immensely when people have all kinds of views on it before the voter has spoken. I'm a democrat and the voter has to tell us what it's gonna be. At the same time, I am also convinced that we as the Labour Party have nothing to be ashamed of. We have done important things for the country over the past four years, and the most important thing perhaps is to ensure that we can pass on the welfare state to our children and grandchildren. That wasn't an easy feat. We have had to do things that a lot of Dutch people are worried about whether they will be okay. But we are convinced that it was necessary, precisely to ensure that the welfare state that is so dear to us will still be available for future generations. So we, as the Labour Party, are going into the election campaign with our head held high; and then I hope that a lot of people will give us the confidence that we will have to do what we do in the next four years in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u67	I agree with Mrs Barth, but my question was: does the PvdA think, after this lyrical speech on the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, that this cabinet policy should be used by the elections? If the Labour Party feels that it has nothing to be ashamed of and that it, as described in the Millions Note, has secured the welfare state not only for our children but also for our grandchildren, I find it rather pretentious to say so, but that is what everyone is free to say: let us finish this job. Then pretend as a nuance that you would prefer the name of Prime Minister Asscher and the Deputy Prime Minister Rutte. Isn't it one thing or the other? Either you say "this is absolutely good and it has to go on" or you want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u68	I also like to hear that Mr Kox can follow me. That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u69	That's not always the case, but this time it's going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u70	Once again, as the Labour Party, we took responsibility for the administration of the country when it was dogish. We are proud that we have taken that responsibility. We could have chosen to stand aside. We hadn't become the biggest party. We could have said: we are going to hide ourselves in the opposition and there we are shooting at the other parties who dare to try to pull the Netherlands out of the socio-economic swamp. I am very proud that we have got our hands dirty, that we have put our feet in the mud and worked very hard to get the country back on top. If we read the Millions note, it has helped a great deal. We're not running away from what the Cabinet has done. In fact, we're proud of it. But the fact that there's a job to be done, I think it's a strange story. Over the next four years there will be new challenges and new issues. These new issues call again for new solutions. There will also be a new election result. This result is crucial for the answer to the question of what kind of cabinet is going to be in the future. The voter is always right and always the last word. That does not prevent us from going into the election campaign with our heads held high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u71	Unlike Mr Cox, I do understand the embarrassment of the Labour Party. You stand together in front of a cabinet. That has led to a number of things. Mrs Barth says that new problems need to be tackled afterwards, perhaps by a new coalition. However, could some of the existing problems not be addressed because the coalition partners in this cabinet are so incredibly divided? Admit that, too, childishly. I would like to mention the labour market and the tax plan as examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u72	I am looking at that a little bit differently than Mr De Graaf. Last year, the cabinet presented a proposal to reform taxes, but this cabinet has to do with the harsh reality that it cannot count on a majority here in the First Chamber. The government's proposals for tax reform were supported by the coalition parties, but not wider. This was not due to the coalition, but to the fact that last year the cabinet failed to find a broader basis for these proposals than the coalition parties. Of course, we were very sorry about that. We would have liked things to be different, but that is the harsh reality that this cabinet has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u73	I'm really surprised by these words. I do not recall that a comprehensive review of the tax system has been offered to this Chamber. If that had happened, we would have checked to see if there were majorities. I don't have the impression that the cabinet itself tried. Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u74	Indeed, that plan never reached us because it became clear in the House of Representatives that the parties you would need here for that broad support were already not willing to support the plan on the other side. I've had to read it all in the paper too, I'll admit it. As a senior MP, I wasn't involved in those conversations. But it wasn't about disagreements within the coalition. It was the result that the wider support was not found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u75	I do not recall the fact that a joint coalition proposal was put forward that had structural reforms in it. What assists me is that the coalition just didn't come out and that then something little ambitious was rolled out with nothing but gifts. It was something for everyone. Mr Wiebes even expressed his disappointment. I don't know what tax plan we're talking about and what year we're talking about here, but I'm reading a different history from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u76	Call a tax relief of 5 billion in times of economic setback but a small reform. It is also a structural burden reduction. I thought it was very good that the cabinet did that last year. I would also like to hear how the Prime Minister looks back on what happened last year. Certainly because Mrs Strik refers to Mr Wiebes, it would be good if the Prime Minister were to shed his light on this in his first term. I have seen nothing but that there was certainly a willingness in the coalition to take further steps, such as greening the tax system. There were also plans to take steps in the area of capital tax. However, it was not possible to find a solid majority for this, including in this House. We were very sorry about that too, because we would have liked it. There were good plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u77	I find it special that you consider handing out presents as a structural reform. At the same time, you say that you would have wanted more, but that there was no majority for this. On the contrary, we were unable to vote in favour because of the lack of structural reforms. I think you've been satisfied very quickly. I ask you to be open about what did and what did not succeed, so that we can look forward together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u78	I think I'm very open. It didn't work. We were very sorry to hear that. We'd have liked it to be different. I would never label 5 billion relief as a gift. Many Dutch people have already benefited from this in this year. We also see the positive effects it has had, not only on purchasing power, but also on consumer confidence. It is currently domestic demand that stimulates the economy. The cabinet did not just take an important step last year, but also a very good step. I'll come to a conclusion. With the great pacification of 1917, the Cort van der Linden cabinet fundamentally changed our country and led it into the 20th century. We are convinced that the Rutte II cabinet has taken vital steps to better deal with the major issues of the 21st century. But we're not there yet. Visible investments in "us" and all of us are needed to restore confidence to all Dutch people in the future. We would therefore like to continue working on growth and development, connecting and strengthening. In such uncertain times, political stability is indispensable for economic growth and a strong society. It would be good if the Netherlands remained a positive exception in the world in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u79	Madam President. "Many promises little does the fool live in joy," the Prime Minister must have thought when he and Diederik Samsom signed the coalition agreement. With a simple signature, the VVD became the PvdA's accomplice and then rolled out the red carpet for its socialist comrades. Slowing down in the plush, there was a merciless increase of tens of billions and the borders were opened wide open. For let us not forget: a real socialist is an internationalist. The Dublin agreement was thrown overboard and thousands of chanceless luck seekers could enter our villages and cities. The cabinet made it seem as if with this flow of immigrants very intellectually and highly educated Syria came to us, while in reality poverty and unemployment were imported. It is not for nothing that the European countries are not lining up for shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u80	Does Mrs Faber now call the Syrian refugees chanceless luck seekers? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u81	You got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u82	Can you explain in more detail that people fleeing war and terror are out of the question? Why are they without a chance? The word lucky seeker has a negative connotation in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. I can. I am speaking through the chairman. These lucky seekers I repeat: lucky seekers are not coming directly into the Netherlands. They enter at the edges of the European Union. They'll be safe there. However, they don't stay there, but they flow through to Germany and the Netherlands, where they can make the most of it. That's where they're going. When we look back at the people who came from Syria, 75% of them appear to be in the welfare system. I do not think they make such a big contribution to this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u84	Happiness seekers, I also mean people who are looking for protection. You say they could have stayed in Turkey. We are dealing with 60 million refugees worldwide. Do you think it is logical that they are only taken care of in neighbouring countries, even if they lack basic facilities? Do you not think it is more logical that responsibility for receiving care is shared by other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u85	The point is that we cannot solve the problems by bringing everyone to the Netherlands. This problem is of the region and should be solved in the region, not here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u86	Finally. You say "all of them." You are aware that only a few percent of refugees in Europe come to the Netherlands? What's weird about us taking a share? Why should it be a problem for the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u87	There is nothing weird about the fact that we do not want to take in refugees here or a lucky seeker or anything. I shall come back to it in detail later in my text. I would anticipate my own text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u88	I'm excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u89	I can imagine. In addition to this imported unemployment, we also missed a few hundred thousand jobs because of austerity. Away VVD election promise "work, work, work." What did all these cuts ultimately bring? According to economist Bas Jacobs, we lost 10% of gross domestic product, of which 6% comes from the government. That could have generated 15 billion in tax revenue per year, which would have made the whole austerity package superfluous. Conclusion: all this misery for nothing. Care has been cut for nothing, pensions have been cut for nothing and the rents have been increased for nothing. It's crazy! The General Court also has reservations about the impact of the cuts. It therefore recommends that the impact of the cuts be further assessed. It seems, however, that the cabinet would rather not be confronted with Rutte's mess, because the Minister of Finance has indicated that this recommendation should simply be ignored. And the cabinet also gets away with it, because the destructive three, SGP, D66 and Christian Union, do not regret their support for the cuts. After all, you can just end up on the plush! Even the last promised money is fouled out of the public's pocket by increasing the substantial health insurance premium and by the increases in municipal taxes and waterboard charges. Nothing improves purchasing power! Promise a lot and give little. The Millions Note states that future generations can count on a good welfare state. I really wonder what world this cabinet lives in. Everyone knows that a welfare state with open borders is a mirage. Busloads full of profiteers from the Islamic desert enter our villages and cities to get a furnished house after obtaining a residence status with the corresponding benefits and pampering allowances. A participation declaration is signed for the form, a rag that does not have any consequences. Even if you don't meet the language requirement, you'll get that assistance anyway. The empty VVD cry "no Dutch, no benefit" can thus enter the trash. Municipal authorities with the SP alderman in Amsterdam lead the way, just do their own way and don't care about the Dutch citizen. Instead of the fact that Minister Asscher of Social Affairs is acting against this self-righteous behaviour, he chooses the easiest way and continues to long-sufferingly hope that municipalities will still implement the legislation, namely the language requirement. It's completely insane. When is the cabinet going to just maintain? I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. Or is the VVD only in name a party of law and order? In addition to the fact that the majority of happiness seekers will never make an economic contribution to Dutch society, they also bring with them the problems of the home country. In addition to the so-called enrichment, the fifth column, which is already in our towns and villages, is beginning to cause more and more problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u90	I listened to Mrs. Jorritsma. She said that we should let ourselves be heard when we think that we are going to be out of line. I think I'm gonna have to let you hear me now. I find it unacceptable that a member of this Chamber should regard as a fifth column a whole population of people who live here and enjoy our civil rights. Last year, I noticed that the historical awareness of the leader of the PVV group does not end. That hasn't increased. I ask the President to tell Mrs Faber that we cannot use the fifth column here for an entire population group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u91	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to draw the House's attention to the SP, because people are changing and so are parties and Mr Kox. I must say that Mr Kox is not always consistent. I do appreciate him as a politician, because I think he's very sharp. Yet I cannot call them the fifth column. I don't know if Mr. Kox remembers, but he once talked about trainloads full of profiteers. Once there was a SP brochure that said that Islamic immigrants cannot be integrated and that administrators should not blame the Dutch for this. How can a man change! Do you know why Mr. Kox stopped doing this? He stopped doing this, because I quote him "it has done a lot of damage to the SP. It has led us to come later into the House of Representatives. It was clear that we couldn't get through, so we didn't say anything about this." So I would just like to say that Mr Kox is standing here, but that Mr Kox is very inconsistent. He's not in front of his case. I stand here as a PVV man, as a populist, but I stand here for our principles. We do not abandon them, even though we would not be in the Lower House or in the Upper Chamber. We have that point and never drop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u93	That was not my question to the chairman of the PVV group. The accumulated statements by whom it will be, probably Martin Bosman... are none correct. Why don't you come up with the sources and we'll see? The question was: "Is it permissible in this Chamber for one of the members of this Chamber to regard an entire population as a fifth column by appealing to its ideology?" Mrs Faber, the fifth column was discussed in World War II. You just said socialists were internationalists, but they're already PVVs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u94	If I may intervene, I note that the expression Fifth Column from the Spanish Civil War dates back. Mrs Faber has literally said: 'Inside there is a fifth column'. If I have misunderstood that, Mrs Faber must correct it. If she said what you said, we have a problem. If she said, "there's a fifth column in there," there's another nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u95	For the sake of clarity, I will just repeat the sentence. Then what I said is clear to everyone. "In addition to this so-called enrichment, the fifth column, already located in our towns and villages, is beginning to cause more and more problems." Slowly it becomes clear that the Turkish mosques, controlled and funded by Diyanet, the mouthpiece are Erdogan. Via Erdogan's imams Turkish Dutch are held in the Turkish grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u96	Can't I just interrupt again? The nuance I thought was in it doesn't seem to be in it at all. Speaking of a fifth column is very strained, because it really is a story of high treason. Perhaps you can change your words a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u97	Madam President, I do not change my words. We have a debate here. In a debate, you should name the problems. We have a problem. This problem exists in parallel societies in the Netherlands. If we don't talk about it, we're just not gonna fix it. That is why I continue to appoint it, with all due respect, because I respect you very much, Madam President. I stand by my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u98	I do not have any need to continue on this subject of the Fifth Column, because in my view the President has set out very well how we should deal with it. I would like to return to the small debate that Mrs Faber has had with Mr Kox. In it she talked about the consistency of his words. Now Mrs Faber and yours truly have had a little debate with each other. I would like to come back to that, because she has also expressed herself as working and speaking from the Jewish-Christian tradition. As a result, I went into that a little bit and found out that at a special Jewish party there is always an empty chair in every family. That's for the stranger coming in there. In addition, you speak of the Christian tradition. Then we speak of Christ. He said, I have been hungry, thou hast given me to eat. I have been thirsty, you have given me to drink. I was a stranger, and you have hosted me. Would you link these words of Christ to your position in which you claim to speak from the Jewish-Christian tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u99	Madam President, I am not going to make any theological arguments here, because we know the separation of Church and State, but I would like to comment on this. It would be too easy not to do so. You know, it all sounds nice. You come from the Jewish religion with beautiful words and you come from Christianity with beautiful words. In fact, you're suggesting that I should put a chair here for an Islamic refugee. That's fine, but when I look at 1,400 years of history, it turns out that Islam moved 1,400 years ago from the Arabian peninsula to the West. We see a trail of rape, murder and war. What was once a multicultural society in the Middle East and in North Africa has now become a monoculture, because Islam dominates everything. If I put a free chair here and give space to Islam, our freedom will be over. Then, in due course, we shall be snowed down by Islam. They will initially try it in the Netherlands by dawa, conversion and the word. If that doesn't work, just come the sword.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u100	Mr Schalk, you can respond briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u101	I, too, have not tried to initiate a theological discussion. I addressed Mrs Faber in her own words, that of a year ago. She can find them in last year's Acts. She then argued that she speaks from the Jewish-Christian tradition. With that fugitive, who I was talking about, you can put an adjective, Islamic. But there are also Christian refugees. I didn't use those words. I'm talking about refugees, people coming in here. And you argue that you advocate a Jewish-Christian tradition. My argument is: then there must be room for refugees. So I ask you not to walk away from the discussion, but to live up to your position from the PVV, which you yourself have indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u102	I believe the PVV stands more for our Jewish-Christian society than your Christian party. You do not stand for the protection of your Christianity: you see what is happening in the Far East. There Christianity is literally and figuratively slaughtered. If we don't take care of our case, that's gonna happen here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u104	I don't want to defend myself about being my Christian or about Christianity. I quoted Christ and I leave it at that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u105	Thank you. I'm gonna step in right now. For those who think that this is a discussion with which we do not get much further in the context of the General Political Reviews, I would like to say one more thing about the fifth column. Mrs Faber, the fifth column is 'I say it again' from the Spanish civil war. That's a group of people who really betray. I asked you to take those words back, but you don't. I regret, however, that you are using this terminology for a whole group of people with the enormous connotation attached to it. We need to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u106	Thank you, Madam President. I can go into this in more detail, but I don't think that's a good idea. I think it is even more clear in the text I have in front of me. Slowly it becomes clear that Turkish mosques are more than 140 who are controlled and financed by Diyanet and are the mouthpiece of Erdogan. By Erdogan-imams Turkish Dutch are held in a Turkish grip. This became painfully visible at the speed with which Erdogan got many Turks on their feet in Rotterdam to express their displeasure about the coup d'état in Turkey. According to Erdogan, it was committed by the Gülen movement. Not only the followers of Erdogan were present, but also the at least as fanatical supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood were there. How long is the cabinet going to take this up and finance Erdogan via Diyanet? I'd like an answer from the Prime Minister. Gülen supporters are now under threat and are terrified to press charges. They're afraid of being ratted out by pro-Erdogan agents. For example, a Turkish woman's report was passed on by a pro-Erdogan policeman. I can hardly give a clearer example: a double nationality means double loyalty. Does the Cabinet learn from this? No! Meanwhile, in the application procedure, the police cheerfully prefer immigrants with a dual cultural background. If you do not pass the procedure, you are simply offered a rematch with a training program. While the Netherlands on the left screams murder and fire when the police profile citizens ethnically, it does cheer when that happens to cops in particular. The application of a selection criterion which means that only Dutch nationality applies to a job in the police would be discrimination. And a preference for immigrants in the police force wouldn't be discrimination. Can you still follow this? Isn't this a double-size place? Covered by the flow of migrants, hundreds of terrorists walk into Europe. These include Syrians returning, such as the perpetrators who blew up in the concert hall Bataclan, or one of the perpetrators with ankle bracelets who stormed into a French church, where in cold blood an 84-year-old priest was slit his throat. Also in the Netherlands condemned jihadists walk around with an anklet. Driven by their ideology and supported by a large part of the fifth column, an extremely explosive situation in the ever-expanding enclaves forms. In France, 5 million people already live in such a parallel society. In the officially recognized 751 no-go zones, the police indicate that they are afraid to act in these Islamised neighbourhoods. Also in the Netherlands there are districts where the Dutch government loses authority. As a solution, subsidised Moroccan neighborhood fathers are used who often have ties with the local mosque and local politicians. Here in The Hague the Sharia police of the salafistic As-Soennah mosque was deployed during the turn of the year. As the PVV indicated in the Hague City Council, this form of Islamization undermines the authority of the police. Police officers want to keep the order, but unfortunately not every mayor is tough enough to draw a line, so from here and no further. In fact, in Zaandam, candidate mayors withdraw. While hundreds of thousands of men, often without a family, leave their country, our men and our women are going on a mission to bring stability to those home countries. You can honestly ask yourself why we should do that and why these hundreds of thousands of migrants are not going to put their own house in order for once. Then they don't have to abandon their families either. 'Cause let's face it, what guy leaves his wife and kids in a war zone? Meanwhile, we are being assaulted, raped, stabbed, shot and blown up in our own backyard. If we have to believe the media, it's all...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u107	Can Mrs Faber indicate the last time she was raped, stabbed, beaten and so on? If she's not, she shouldn't say so. You're talking about "we." Talk for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u108	If you had looked closely, you would have seen me standing here, so I wasn't shot, blown up...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u109	So you just lied? You're just lying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u110	No, I'm not lying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u111	Then why do you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u112	No, I'm not lying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u113	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u114	Why is Mrs Faber lying? She yells something: we get stabbed, raped and so on. When I ask her when that happened the last time, she says: I'm still standing here, it didn't happen to me. Then I notice that she is not telling the truth. Given the level of Mrs Faber's input, I think we could use the word "lie."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mrs. Strik?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u116	Madam President, I would like to respond, if that is all right with you. I think this is quite an accusation. On the one hand you say... You can laugh, Mrs Jorritsma, I say through the chairman, but when I talk about the fifth column, I get a reprimand. Okay, you're chairman, you can, fine. If it is said here that I am lying, which is nonsense, because you also know that there are attacks...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u117	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u118	Excuse me, I'm telling the chairman that people are being stabbed and bombs are being planted. Women are being raped. If we look only at what happened in Cologne... I know, you may trivialize that... Mr Kox trivializes that, I say through the chairman. Mrs Jorritsma has also played it down once. In Cologne there were 1,200 reports of sexual assault, but "it was not so big, not so much." Then we shouldn't say I'm lying. I think that goes very far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u119	We see the footage of Aleppo on TV every day. People get bombed and have to let go. People fleeing this situation blame you for leaving their country. Immediately, you will also link one-on-one with insecurity here in our country. You say all this on the basis of the rule of law. You say you want to defend the rule of law and our society. I would like to say that you are threatening the rule of law, because you are attacking the core values of our rule of law, namely tolerance, the right to protection and respect for each individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u120	But through the chairman, Mrs. Strik. I'm just gonna say it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u121	You are quite right, Mr President, but this was a cry of hearts addressed to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u122	Nevertheless, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u123	I can't believe I'm going through that again, a GroenLinks heart cry. That's great in itself, but okay. You consider me or my party a threat to our rule of law. I think that GroenLinks and her leftwing cronies are the greatest threat to our rule of law, because they leave the borders open, they let everything in, uncontrolled. We don't know what's coming in here. We have open borders within Europe, but there is not even an external border. So anything can only come in here, uncontrolled. The French security services indicate that there are 15,000 extremists out there, of whom 4,000 should actually be checked every day. In the Netherlands there are 100,000 people, Muslims, who say they want to use violence. They do not condemn that. There are 100,000 in Belgium who are in favour, supporters of IS. That's 200,000. Add that to what is still going on in France and who knows what else is going on. While Mrs Strik leaves the borders open, she is going to tell me that we, the PVV, are a threat to our rule of law. Well, I don't know what world you live in, but I think you're completely off the path!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u124	We have General Political Considerations with the Cabinet. May I ask you to continue your conversation with the Cabinet? You still want to interrupt, Mrs. Strike? Very briefly, then. I really want to close this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u125	I'm absolutely right with you. I'd like to make a correction. I did not say that the PVV is a threat to the rule of law. What you have just said, I think, is a threat to the rule of law. I just wanted to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u126	That was the correction. I would then ask Mrs Faber to continue her discussion with the cabinet for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u127	I would like to add that I am speaking on behalf of the PVV. I'm just gonna have to switch back up and pick up my story. Meanwhile, we're being assaulted, raped, stabbed, shot and blown up in our backyard. If we have to believe the media, it's all confused people who happen to be calling Allahoe akbar. The Dutch Public Broadcasting is so furious that they have bombed away fear of the Arab world into an important theme in the new television season. The NPO reports: "The Arab world calls to the viewer mainly images of war and oppression, but the Arab world is not just scary." Just a few facts. Since 11 September 2001 until 31 October last, which was yesterday, at least 33,681 Islamic terrorist attacks have been committed, spread over 58 countries, which have killed 204,822 and injured 286,598. These numbers don't make you feel much better. Even worse is the Qur'an, which leads every Islamic country, the Qur'an that legitimizes and glorifies terrorist acts. The promotional campaign of the NPO underlines once again the dubious role played by this subsidised propaganda machine. By misinformed the public, it is playing into the hands of terrorists. But the NPO isn't the only one that gives way to terrorism. The government's just in. Not only not closing the borders leads to abuse and additional complications, but also allowing multiple nationalities leads to problems. We see problems in parliament, we see problems in the police and we see problems with employees at airports. One of the terrorists who blew up at Brussels airport would have worked in Zaventem for five years. The airport even indicated that there would be a list of at least 50 radical Muslims working at the airport. In the Poelenburg district of Zaandam, an employee of the security department of Schiphol terrorizes the neighborhood. You can question the screening. So you can see, Mr President, that having a job is not a guarantee of integration. While Islam has declared war on the West, Islam is sneaking into Defense. Halal meals are provided, a prayer room is provided: all signs of Islamization. While Harold Rhode, a Middle East specialist who worked for 28 years in the Pentagon, warns that military images are being edited to recruit soldiers for Allah's cause within the Western Defense Department, two dubious imams are being adopted within our Defense Department. One has ties to Milli Görüş and the other does not see women as equal. Waiting for orders from female officers to be ignored. This year, the PVV has already advocated that a job at Defense should be made conditional on having only Dutch nationality. If soldiers in the Dutch army do not want to renounce their dual nationality, then I mean non-Dutch nationality, which can be seen as a form of loyalty to the other country: the country of origin. After all, if your loyalty lies with the Netherlands and you want to build up your existence here, why stick to the other nationality? Or do they want to eat off both sides? Working with American weapons is subject to strict U.S. laws and regulations, called ITAR: International Traffic in Arms Regulations. This is what the US is trying to prevent from leaking technology. There has been a trial in Canada concerning double-national workers. Itar wrote that Canadians with a dual nationality were not always allowed to carry out work on American weaponry covered by ITAR. If that is the case for Canada, so is the Netherlands. Indeed, both countries are classified by the US in the same group of NATO ally friends and both are covered by ITAR. In 2011, ITAR was amended with regard to having dual nationalities. This led to the adoption of additional measures. These measures show that people with dual nationality can indeed pose a risk. Restrictions can indeed be imposed. The US has made additional agreements with Canada in this respect. As for Canada, the 2011 measures also apply to the Netherlands. The PVV Group is therefore asking the Prime Minister whether, following the 2011 amendment, additional agreements have been reached with the US on the dual nationality of Defence workers and employees working for Defence? If so, what does this mean? Has the screening of these workers covered by the ITAR been modified following the amendment in 2011? Then there's one final thorny issue. In the Prime Minister's Tower, the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine is still patiently waiting for, yes, what? 2.5 million voters have clearly said no, but the Brussels throne calls and the Prime Minister must. In order not to be sent home, he eagerly sought a majority in the two chambers. He's begging other parties like him to just push the 2.5 million no-voters aside. Democracy? What do you mean, democracy? Just put a few footnotes in the treaty and go, the cronies have been found. The Prime Minister calls these notes chic a legally binding solution that reflects the outcome of the referendum and is acceptable to Parliament and the 27 Member States that have already ratified it. Thus the pain points of the no-voters would disappear. Not that the no-voters have mentioned these pain points. No, the cabinet made that up. The only pain point is "no." Despite the fact that there is no formal support for this non-solution in the European partners, the CDA, in addition to D66, is shamelessly defeated. Their desire for the European state of salvation is greater than the will to respect the outcome of a referendum. They therefore do not hesitate to leave 2.5 million no-votes staggering with the conclusion that these parties are only democratic in name. This whole thing is just a stretch and stretch exercise to ratify after the elections. We can do that without the extra footnotes, but it doesn't really matter, because no is no. I'm rounding up. While this cabinet is refusing to "rule" the Association Treaty with Ukraine, the PVV wants to give more power to its citizens. While this cabinet increases the burden, the PVV wants to reduce the burden. While this cabinet allows our elderly to unite and pollute, the PVV wants to continue to take care of our elderly, because we are obliged to do so. While this cabinet is the EU's vassal, the PVV wants to control our country. While this cabinet gives ample work to Islam, the PVV wants to de-islamize, because the Netherlands is ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-eerstekamer-3.u128	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 2:00 p.m.
