ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the members of the temporary committee and the members of the staff who assisted the committee in drawing up the report. Today, the committee will address the questions that have already been asked last week. I am therefore happy to give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Van Raak himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you so much, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. We also thank Members for their input on the proposal for a parliamentary questioning. Members have noticed that this elaboration of this parliamentary instrument is simple and closely aligned with existing legislation. Mr Amhaouch mentioned the proposal: a small, practical innovation. Mr Van Nispen praised our choices with the words: why be difficult if it can also be simple? Mrs. Fokke asked in agreement: why would you invent a new wheel? And Mr Taverne was a little more critical: everything the committee proposes can already be done. We agree with all these Members. Who are we? We are the Temporary Committee for the Evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act, TCEWPE. Mrs Fokke avoided speaking our name because it would take too much speaking time. This committee is in the process of evaluating the Parliamentary Survey Act with a view to the information position of the Chamber. In doing so, we try to draw lessons from the experience of recent surveys: those on the financial system, housing corporations and the Fyra-debacle. In addition, the Bureau asked us to draw up a motion by Mr Segers and others. It was submitted in June 2013 during a debate on the estimation of the House of Representatives. This motion states that parliamentary surveys often require a considerable time for preparation. It is also noted that in hearings and parliamentary investigations people cannot be required to cooperate or be questioned under oath. The House of Representatives sees a gap here. This is what we want to see done with this motion for a resolution. We have taken on this task with great pleasure. I would like to thank the members of the committee, but above all the support, some of whom are behind us here. They have done a great deal of work and have also done very thorough work. All the praises of Members to us are, first and foremost, a compliment to them. After an extensive search and consultation of a variety of experts, we came to the conclusion that a parliamentary questioning does not require new legislation, because the current Parliamentary Survey Act also allows parliamentary questioning as envisaged by the Chamber. The parliamentary interrogation is actually a short-term parliamentary survey aimed at obtaining oral information by hearing persons under oath. In order to manage a parliamentary interrogation, we have drawn up a protocol. We also propose to experiment with this medicine for five years, after which we can see if it fills the felt gap. Members raised questions on the proposal and on the protocol. We will answer them immediately, but first we do not want to answer a number of questions. These are questions to give examples of subjects that would or would not be suitable for parliamentary questioning, questions about which hearings or round tables in the past should have been a parliamentary interrogation, or how many people have shown up in the past at which hearing or at which conversation. As interesting as this type of caseism is, it is not up to this committee to have an opinion on choices that the House of Representatives has made in the past or will make in the future. The committee's mandate was to give effect to a motion to enable a parliamentary questioning. On which subjects are or are not suitable for this purpose, the Chamber itself decides by majority. The committee notes that a proposal for a parliamentary questioning has been made in a committee prior to the examination of our report. It is therefore primarily up to that committee to determine whether a proposal for an interrogation is actually being made. It is then up to the House of Representatives to decide whether that is an appropriate proposal. Before we answer the specific questions put by Members, I would like to make a few comments in advance. Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u6	Shall we listen to that first, Mr. Taverne? Yes, let Mr Van Raak finish his introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr Taverne expressed concern that the parliamentary questioning could lead to the erosion of the instrument of the parliamentary survey. We understand his remark that the parliamentary inquiry is the Court's hardest instrument, and we share his view that it should not be used unnecessarily often. To put it in kitchen language, that could make the knife bone. However, the purpose of parliamentary interrogation is precisely to avoid unnecessary use of the parliamentary survey. Think of it as a peeling knife that can prevent the kitchen knife from getting blunt. In addition, we remind Mr Taverne that the current Parliamentary Survey Act does not exclude a parliamentary questioning, but makes it possible to do so. Mr Taverne pointed that out himself. If the Chamber were to decide that a parliamentary questioning would not be desirable, it would actually be necessary to amend the Parliamentary Survey Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u8	I would like to thank Mr Van Raak for the introductory remarks, which raise a few new questions. Once again, that has nothing to do with the fact that I do not appreciate the work of the committee. Please don't misunderstand me. I'll start with the last one. Mr Van Raak is now actually saying that by using a form of a parliamentary survey, we are preventing the use of the means of the parliamentary survey. In fact, that is what it comes down to when the parliamentary questioning as such does not exist and is nothing but a form of parliamentary inquiry. I understand that this leads to a complicated construction, which this protocol should now be an answer to, but I want to avoid the impression that we are introducing a kind of new, lighter instrument that will prevent frequent use of the parliamentary survey. That's not true, because it's one and the same. I would like to receive a reflection from Mr Van Raak. Prior to that, Mr Van Raak told us which questions will not be answered. As far as I am concerned, these were crucial questions in order to appreciate the protocol that has been proposed. One of the reasons for the proposal is that what we have now is not working properly. For example, in round tables, you cannot force people to come. I find it unsatisfactory if there is not an answer to the question of how many of these round tables, in the opinion of this committee, could have been a parliamentary questioning in the new situation. And perhaps even more important is the question: how often have people not shown up? The means now proposed, at least its use, means that you can actually bring people here. I would ask Mr Van Raak, in his capacity as chairman of this committee, to answer that, because that is very important for the appreciation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'm not gonna do that, and this committee isn't gonna do that either. This committee was asked to draw up a motion tabled by Mr Segers and others during a legislative consultation held on 24 June 2013 and adopted by the House of Representatives. That motion called for an exploration of a parliamentary interrogation and a proposal for its elaboration. The debate on the type of questions that may be raised during a parliamentary questioning took place during that legislative consultation. As a result, the House of Representatives expressed the wish for a new remedy. Mr Taverne says that if we use this means, which is based on the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act, we will, therefore, be using that law more often; in that respect, I follow his reasoning. But that does not mean that we will have a more frequent parliamentary survey, on the contrary. In addition to the hearing and the round table on the one hand and the parliamentary survey on the other, the House of Representatives has expressed the need to have a more flexible means of use, so as to ensure that the information position of the Chamber is ensured and that it can interrogate people, if necessary under oath, without organising a full-dressed parliamentary inquiry. One takes part in this parliamentary inquiry and formulates a special question of inquiry which is then referred to the Chamber. In the media it is also called a "mini survey." In any case, it is an interrogation focused solely on the oral collection of information. All other matters of a parliamentary survey, such as the taking of documents, the doing of extensive preliminary research and entry into places, are all not used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u10	But you can, because it all happens on the basis of the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act. This once again raises the question of why this construct was chosen, a protocol based on the Parliamentary Survey Act 2008. Why not opt for a better and more stringent regulation, if necessary a new law, which excludes the possibility of using a number of resources from the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act? I agree with Mr Van Raak that a protocol offers the same possibilities, even if the practice has to prove it. It's kind of like saying: we're going to prosecute someone on the basis of the Code of Criminal Law, but we're only doing that a little bit and not much. But the latter can, because it is done on the basis of the Code of Criminal Law. If these considerations are in favour, and I assume they are, then why did this medicine and this form have been chosen? In this way you will not avoid the possibilities mentioned above and the possible doubts about the use of this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u11	I try to understand Mr Taverne's question. He actually asked two questions. First of all, he wants to know why a law was not chosen. The answer to that question is that this is not necessary. We have looked for the need for legislation, including in the Rules of Procedure, but it does not appear to be present. For the experiment of a parliamentary interrogation, we can base ourselves on the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act. This means, for example, that a research question is submitted from a committee. That question is first submitted to the Bureau, which then gives a weighting to it, and then to the House of Representatives. A majority of the House of Representatives may then decide to proceed to a parliamentary questioning, but that is something other than a "fully dressed" parliamentary inquiry. The research proposal must clearly explain why people need to be questioned, why these people need to be questioned, why this means has been chosen, not for another means, and why it is necessary to collect information orally and, if necessary, under oath. Mr Taverne is right to say that it is also possible to use the other resources from the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act, such as the progress of documents and the entry of spaces and the like. But that is not in the remit of the parliamentary inquiry. We cannot rule out the fact that, as a result of a parliamentary inquiry, the House of Representatives decides by majority either by an amended or new proposal or by an amended or new committee that the parliamentary questioning has given rise to a parliamentary inquiry. The House of Representatives will then be able to give its opinion on this matter again. Since we do not have that much time, I would like to briefly address five issues: the nature of the questioning, preparation, witness and expert, converging and evaluation. I'll start with the character of the interrogation. The present proposal for the application of the law in the form of a parliamentary questioning has been widely consulted. The proposal says who we've all consulted. In our view, therefore, it is not really necessary to ask the Council of State for information or to consult it even more widely. We refer the Court to the possibility which it already has under the law. This gives us the opportunity to close the gap between an ordinary hearing and an extensive and lengthy parliamentary inquiry. Adding this possibility to the toolbox of the Chamber is not intended to replace it; it really is an addition. Ministerial responsibility does not change. The existing interpretation and practice will not have to change. A minister must provide information to the Chamber in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution and in accordance with the active obligation to provide information and unsolicited information. If the Chamber finds that the Minister has informed the Chamber incorrectly, incompletely or prematurely, it is up to the Chamber to draw political consequences. The instrument of parliamentary interrogation does not change that, nor is it intended to replace the regular relationship between the Chamber and the Ministers. This also means that this proposal does not change the position of officials. The instrument does, of course, offer a clear added value towards third parties. These will have to cooperate in the interrogation through the obligation to cooperate. They do not have to do this, because the law also offers them all kinds of guarantees. We also point out that all the possibilities, questions and concerns expressed by Members can, of course, be taken into account in the Court's own assessment if it decides in a specific case to conduct a parliamentary inquiry. On the basis of practice, as Mr Taverne also said, it will only be possible to really prove the meaning and added value of the instrument that the Chamber has previously requested. Then there is the decision-making and preparation. Several Members have drawn attention to the risk that the Chamber will resort to this new instrument too quickly and too often. Mrs Fokke called this a "Parliamentary quickie." Mr Van Nispen has rightly said that the Chamber itself is there; a majority decision is needed. How do we ensure that this decision is taken carefully? I would like to begin by pointing out that the House of Representatives has already laid down an extensive procedure for taking such decisions in the Parliamentary and External Research Regulations. This means that different procedural steps must be taken within the Court to reach a decision. For example, a motion is often put to the vote first and then the research proposal is drawn up by a standing committee. The Bureau shall draw up an appreciation of the proposal and then it shall be put to the vote in the Chamber. The scheme also requires that the research proposal describes, inter alia, the reasons and research questions and provides a basis for the choice of the instrument to be used. In the case of a parliamentary questioning, the petitioner or the proposers should therefore be able to make a good argument as to why it is necessary to require individuals to cooperate in an interrogation, possibly under oath. We fully agree with Mr Bishop that, if possible, less far-reaching resources should be chosen. This is also always about proportionality. In addition, the same Parliamentary and External Research Regulations describe all the criteria to be met by a research proposal. This in response to Mrs Koşer Kaya's question to a standard design. The authors of a proposal can, of course, seek advice from the official staff on this matter, as they can and are doing a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr Van Raak referred to the parliamentary investigation procedure. It has already been said in the first period that the toughest system is now being used to introduce a lighter variant. One of the arguments is that there is nothing between a parliamentary inquiry and the parliamentary questioning. That is not true, because we know the parliamentary inquiry. This is based on the same and similar arrangements, but why now introduce a lighter variant of the parliamentary survey on the basis of the same law if there is also a possibility for a parliamentary inquiry which is lighter than a parliamentary survey and which is not overused?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u13	Because a parliamentary interrogation is something other than a parliamentary inquiry. A parliamentary interrogation gives the Chamber the opportunity to hear people, to oblige people and to hear people under oath. This medicine can also be used fairly quickly. If the protocol is followed, it can be done within four to twelve weeks. It is a careful instrument in which witnesses and experts also have rights and receive the protection that is needed. I shall come back to that later, but it is really a very different means. The Court has asked for this plea to be dealt with. The Chamber has asked for a parliamentary questioning. The Chamber has said that this would be useful in its parliamentary toolbox and we have worked on it. We will have to tackle not only the decision-making process on the questioning but also the subsequent preparation for the questioning. Mr Amhaouch has rightly drawn attention to this. In its decision on parliamentary questioning, the Chamber will therefore have to ask itself whether an interrogation committee can properly prepare itself. On the basis of our extensive exploration, we conclude that Members of Parliament have several possibilities in a parliamentary questioning. For example, an interrogation committee may take note of public reports, conduct informal preparatory discussions and examine written statements by witnesses and experts. Training in interrogation techniques is also possible; a skill not to be underestimated. A parliamentary interrogation is an instrument of the Chamber, as is a parliamentary inquiry or a parliamentary inquiry. This means that members of an interrogation committee are asked to carry out an assignment together, to get away from their party political color. That is important when you use this kind of far-reaching powers. Then I come to the position of witnesses and experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Amhaouch has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u15	I'll come back to that careful preparation. Does the committee believe that it is adequately secured in the protocol? Or can we take an extra step in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u16	I shall come back to the proposal that Mr Amhaouch made in the first term. We think that's enough. It's been a long time. That is why we are making this proposal now. I shall come back to Mr Amhaouch's specific proposal a little later. A number of members, including Mr Taverne and Mr Van Nispen, had questions about the position of witnesses and experts. The committee fully agrees with these members that a parliamentary questioning can be a major event for a witness or expert. Careful preparation is therefore also very important. This careful preparation also includes the fact that the committee is investigating whether a person it is looking at is the most appropriate. It will, of course, also have to look at the situation in which this potential witness or expert finds himself, for example in view of any other investigations. I'll come back to that later. No formal preliminary interviews are foreseen in the preparation for an interview, as is the case with a regular survey. However, this does not mean that there can be no prior contact between the witness and the committee. On the contrary, that seems to us to be very important. In addition, we introduce two new safeguards for the witnesses, the written statement, which is made public prior to the interrogation, and the opening statement. That gives the witness the opportunity to tell his or her story in his or her own words, before the committee starts questioning. These new safeguards can also offset the point raised by Mr Bishop, namely the risk that a witness will end up in the defendant's bench by means of the interrogation. That is clearly not the intention. By giving the witness the opportunity to speak first in his own words on the subject of interrogation, we underline once again that it is up to the Chamber to obtain information for the purposes of the information position of the Chamber. Then, of course, it is up to the committee to keep a close eye on the purpose of the questioning. She will always have to watch over it, as we believe it will become a tribunal. This is not really different in the regular parliamentary survey. The law also provides the opportunity to conduct an interview behind closed doors. A committee can also opt for an interview without recording images or sounds. Finally, I come to Mrs Koşer Kaya's question on the possibilities of appeal and objection. The law already provides an arrangement on that point. If a witness considers that he is wrongly called in for questioning or that there is a change of ground, he may refuse to cooperate. If the committee persists in its appeal, it will have to go to court in order to actually enforce cooperation. The judge will then check whether the committee's actions comply with the law. We do not see any role for the President of the Chamber. We also think that this would be a very difficult role. A number of members had questions about a coincidence of a parliamentary interrogation with investigations by other bodies, including the Public Prosecutor's Office. We agree with these Members that this must be handled carefully. We stress once again that it is always up to the Chamber to decide when and what a parliamentary interrogation is to be held. However, it is of no benefit to anyone if other investigations are unnecessarily obstructed or crossed. There is nothing to prevent the Chamber from obtaining information from, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office on possible ongoing or imminent investigations into similar facts during the decision on a parliamentary questioning. Even after the decision has been taken, the interrogation committee may be expected to seek coordination. This is already common practice in surveys. However, we do not think it wise to make the start of an interrogation dependent on the consultations that are being held on this subject, as proposed by Mr Amhaouch. The Court would then make the application of its constitutional right of inquiry too dependent on other parties, in this case the Public Prosecutor. Moreover, we do not expect that any parallel questioning will always be a problem; on the contrary. Moreover, we should organise this consultation not only with the Public Prosecutor but with all possible investigative bodies, such as inspections, supervisors and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Van Raak states that he does not often expect this coincidence; quite the contrary. That's what I'm gonna take for granted. What leads him to believe that it will be the case on the contrary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u18	We already have the same situation in other investigations, especially in the case of surveys. The problem is that obtaining information by the Lower House cannot depend on a kind of consent relationship with third parties, not even with the Public Prosecutor's Office. The investigations are also completely different according to their nature. The D.A.'s doing a criminal investigation, with a question of guilt. Information is obtained by means of a parliamentary interrogation. That's very different. The conduct of criminal investigations does not preclude an interrogation, and neither does the other way around. I shall come back to that very briefly. If there has been an interrogation, it does not mean that criminal investigations can no longer be carried out. It is just that what is shared in the interrogation cannot serve as evidence in a criminal investigation. I will come back to that later. That evidence may well be obtained in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u19	That does not rule out the possibility that a parliamentary questioning, like a parliamentary inquiry, may indeed hinder the course of justice, particularly the prosecution. The consideration of starting a parliamentary interrogation is information provision. But I hope that Mr Van Raak agrees with me that other political and even sometimes publicity considerations can also play a role in a parliamentary inquiry, and undoubtedly also in the use of an interrogation. They can drive prosecution in the wheels. Then we know a lot, but if what we know is criminal but can't be prosecuted anymore, or at least becomes more difficult, isn't that putting the horse behind the cart?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u20	A parliamentary interrogation is no different than a parliamentary survey, other than that it is much less serious. When it comes to the relationship with criminal investigations by, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office, this means is no different, except that, if it is already disruptive, it will be less disruptive. As a result, it is also very important, and we stress that in this treatment, that prior contact is sought with the Public Prosecutor's Office if necessary in view of the subject matter or persons being questioned, as is the case with a survey. During the process, that contact will have to be there. Experience from the past with surveys shows that this path leads to cooperation. Another question is whether parliamentary research is being used for publicity or party political purposes. On this point, I would like to point out that the committee must draw up a large-scale research proposal, which must contain everything: the reason for the research, a well-defined research demand, indications of costs, duration and necessary support, and a justification for the choice to use the research instrument. There will then eventually have to be a majority in the Chamber. The fact that the House of Representatives has to agree by majority seems to me to be a much smaller chance of it becoming a publisher's quickie or a party political scheme. This applies to every instrument of the House of Representatives. The same applies to the parliamentary survey. That's where we're at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u21	In the first term, we made the suggestion to coordinate with the Public Prosecutor's Office rather than, as the committee puts it, seek permission from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Does the committee agree with me that you should do it in front at least once, so that at least in the protocol you have a tuning with the Public Prosecutor? Of course, it is always up to the committee or the Chamber itself what it will do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u22	We wholeheartedly agree that this must be done. That is what is happening in practice, at least in the practice of the parliamentary inquiry. In the practice of parliamentary questioning, I think that will always happen when the nature of the persons and the nature of the subject so ask. So I don't think we need to record it, but that it just becomes part of the process, because that makes sense. If it makes sense in a survey, it certainly doesn't make any less sense in an interrogation. If that leads to problems, which we do not foresee, then we have chosen not for nothing to experiment. Then, of course, in the evaluation, we can see whether this new instrument needs a legal basis or whether the amendment of the Parliamentary Survey Act or the protocol is necessary. We can't rule that out. This is the protocol that we think is good and we hope research and interrogation committees will work with it, so that we can also see in a few years' time whether the protocol is working properly. If on the way it appears that this is not the case, if after one or two interviews it appears that there are problems, the Chamber will of course be free to amend the protocol at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u23	You say we're gonna start with it and then we're gonna find it over and over again. But I think history has shown that this issue often comes up in the public prosecutor's office. I therefore wonder what the objection is to include it in the protocol, not as a review but as a prior adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u24	You have to record things when you're expecting trouble. We do not expect problems because, in practice, there is more coordination with the Public Prosecutor's Office with parliamentary instruments, especially in the case of a parliamentary inquiry. We expect this to be the case during the interrogation. Sometimes that won't be the case. Sometimes it will be the case that in an interrogation intended to obtain certain information, there will be or can be no criminal investigation at all, given the subject matter and the persons concerned, and that this is not expected at all. In that case, it would be very obliging to enter into the protocol to have contact with the State's Attorney's Office. Then all we'd do is get ourselves some extra work. So we don't expect any problems with that, not because there can be no coincidence but because in practice there is a lot of cooperation with the D.A.'s office and there is contact with the D.A. prior to and during the process. If there are any problems, the House of Representatives can adjust the stante pede. In fact, the protocol is not mandatory either. So it doesn't stand in the way of anyone doing that. Finally, on this point, how does the parliamentary questioning relate to the premise that no one is obliged to cooperate in his or her conviction. Mr Taverne and Mr Van Nispen asked questions about this. The Parliamentary Survey Act has a clear regulation on this point. Documents and statements made at the request of a committee of inquiry shall not be used as evidence in court proceedings. The same applies to a statement made at the request of an interrogation committee. This will ensure that the obligation to cooperate in a parliamentary inquiry does not infringe the right not to have to cooperate in your own conviction, as is also the result of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Moreover, this exclusion rule does not apply to the written declaration and the opening declaration which the witness may make under the Protocol. They were not made at the request of the committee. Mr Taverne asked about the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The Court has previously specifically referred to the parliamentary inquiry in the Netherlands and the legislation governing the exclusion of evidence in force here. In that judgment, the Court underlines that a parliamentary inquiry is not a criminal procedure within the meaning of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In doing so, it is good to stress that the existing legislation in no way prevents anyone from being prosecuted for facts that have also played a role in the survey or in an interrogation. The law only excludes statements made at the request of a committee of inquiry from being used as evidence. So again, also in the direction of Mr Amhaouch, for the sake of certainty: on the basis of other evidence, i.e. evidence from another source, the criminal conduct itself can still lead to a conviction by the criminal court. That is what happens in practice, and it will be no different in an interrogation. I come to the final point, the evaluation. A new instrument is a matter of testing and then evaluating. In the protocol we propose a period of five years. Thereafter, the Protocol shall expire unless the Chamber decides otherwise on the basis of an evaluation carried out after four years. But why not evaluate after two years, Mr Taverne asked. We would point out that interrogation committees, like the regular committees of inquiry, are asked after their work to draw up a report on their experience. If, for any reason, it appears, on the basis of the reports, that it is appropriate to evaluate it earlier, the Court may decide to do so at any time. On the basis of that evaluation, I have already said it in the direction of Mr Amhaouch................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's what the Chamber itself is about. We have proposed to evaluate after four years. Then hopefully we will also have two periods and some experience. Some people say that there will be few interrogations, and some are afraid that there will be a lot of interrogations, but we do not know. We cannot look into the future. That is why it seems good to us to gain some experience. Hopefully the committees of inquiry will work with the protocol, so that we can also properly evaluate the protocol. Whether the Chamber will therefore often use the instrument of the parliamentary inquiry is, as has been said, up to the Chamber. That is why, Mr President, it is now up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u25	In a literal sense, because we are going to listen to the second term of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Taverne of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the committee and in particular to the chairman of the committee for his detailed reply. Let me say once again that my critical questions do not take away and do not intend to do away with the work that has been done, for which once again pay tribute to the members and staff of the committee, but result from the great involvement of the VVD Group and myself in this issue. This has everything to do with strengthening the Chamber's position and the Court's own resources. Without the meaning that it is important because it concerns us, it is important because it concerns the instruments of this Parliament. As the interruptions showed, I still have a somewhat unsatisfactory feeling about the answers to my questions to the standing practice that should be put to an end with the implementation of this instrument. I am referring in particular to the way in which it relates to the current interrogations and round tables, precisely because they have been specifically mentioned by, among other things, the petitioner, as part of this instrument that could be better implemented. However, the committee and its chairman are concerned with their own answers. I also note that both Mr Van Raak and Mr Segers, who is not here but who is the author of the motion, have publicly expressed the view that this instrument will be used much and often. Hence my first question as to whether the evaluation can be brought forward. I have heard Mr Van Raak's answer to that. It would be a good thing for me if the committee could make an effort to bring forward the evaluation, perhaps three years, precisely because it intends to use it often. If that is all different, then the Chamber itself can deal with it, but I think this would be an important approach. Finally. The VVD Group is still critical, but that will not surprise the committee. I will include the answers in the position of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u27	I listened very carefully to Mr Taverne, just as I listened very carefully to the answers to the questions we asked last week. I don't hear a conclusion in the end. Mr Taverne is going to listen carefully once again. I am trying to understand what is at the heart of the VVD Group's objection to further filling the Chamber's toolbox, to filling the gap we have found between the voluntary appearance at the hearing on the one hand and the long-term parliamentary inquiry on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u28	I will not repeat my first deadline, in which I raised a number of objections. The most important thing is that everything that is now being proposed can be done. Mr Van Raak has also confirmed this. Although a protocol lays down how it is to be used, there is nothing to prevent it from doing so differently, because it is done on the basis of the Parliamentary Survey Act. An important argument to be critical is that it is proposed as a new means between the round table and the parliamentary survey, while there is still a parliamentary inquiry. As I have said, you always find a willing ear in me when it comes to strengthening the position of Parliament and, in particular, this Chamber. That does not alter the fact that I am critical of this, even on that basis. I wonder if we'll end up putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u29	That's your first term in summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yes, briefly this time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u31	Very good. Thanks for letting us hear about it, not about that. Mr Van Nispen has another question, so perhaps you would like to stay with the speaker, Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u32	I don't want to burden the agenda unnecessarily, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u33	No, but Mr Van Nispen doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u34	I really hope that the largest group in the Chamber will contribute to this thorough investigation and to the further filling of the toolbox to strengthen the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u35	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u36	I heard, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. My input is a completely different one. The difference between the VVD and D66 is slightly greater in this respect. Fortunately, because I think this instrument is a great instrument in addition to what we now have in the Chamber. My compliments on that. My compliments, too, on the clear answer to the questions. I would like to thank the members of the committee for doing such a great deal of work. My colleague, Mr Fokke, will also be tabling a motion on behalf of D66 in which we express this. Mr President, thank you for presiding. Great, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u38	It's good to be back here and to be in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee and in particular its chairman for answering the questions. We have expressed some concerns, but as far as I am concerned they have been sufficiently removed. I will advise the group to follow this line of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u40	You'll have that in your pocket again, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank you very much for the clear answer. The SP has already expressed its support for this initiative in the first period. I think it is very good that we continue to fill the parliamentary toolbox. That is why I co-signed the motion to add this useful instrument to that toolbox. It would really surprise me, but it would also disappoint me if the largest group did not go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. Also on behalf of the CDA thank the committee for the clear explanation, especially in response to the requests for careful preparation and for alignment with the prosecution. We had seen a little bit more in that, but we see that the protocol is not mandatory. We're gonna keep hammering on it. The CDA is not afraid of hollowing out the instrument or of using the instrument for publicity stunts. We simply see it as a fill-up between the parliamentary inquiry and the parliamentary inquiry. The Chamber itself is involved in how it will use this instrument. We agree with Mrs Fokke's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mrs. Fokke, first the music corps or not until after?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. On the last day before the recess, the pressure is increased a bit, but I think I can handle it. I would like to thank the committee very much for the clear answers. The Labour Party was already positive and is still positive. Let's just get to work. We can talk about it in great detail and exuberantly. We can bring in the Code of Criminal Law. If, by the way, you want to abolish all the protocols that go with that code, you'll be busy for a while. So let us not do that, but let us get to work. There's been a preliminary announcement, but here's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at the request of the Chamber, the Temporary Committee for the Evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act has given effect to the Segers and Others motion. requesting a review of the so-called parliamentary interrogation;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Committee has carried out a thorough investigation and incorporated its findings in a clear report;]] [[expresses appreciation and thanks for the work done by the committee;]] [[comments on the conclusions and recommendations of the committee and on the adoption of the temporary protocol on parliamentary interrogation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fokke, Mr Koşer Kaya, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Bishop and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34400-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen calls it a useful instrument, Mrs Koşer Kaya speaks of a great instrument, Mr Bishop says that the concerns have been sufficiently removed. In different colours and shapes, the Chamber has expressed its support for this new instrument. I think that's very important. All the compliments to us, Members of Parliament in the front row, apply above all to the employees who are now sitting in the second row. Mr Amhaouch says: it is always up to the Chamber itself, it is up to us to use this instrument. Mrs. Fokke says, "Let's get to work." Let's do that! We're gonna get a new instrument later. We are going to experiment to find out how we're going to use it, when we're going to use it, and how that can complement our work and improve the information position of the Chamber. Mr Taverne still has an unsatisfied feeling. I'm sorry to hear that, especially just before the recess. I can imagine that somewhat, because his party did not support Mr Segers' and others' motion at the time, with which this committee was commissioned to draw up a parliamentary questioning. We understand that. Mr Taverne says that parliamentary questioning is actually already possible, that the protocol is voluntary and that this is not really a new instrument, but an effect of the Parliamentary Survey Act. Mr Taverne mentioned this as a possible reason to object. We could also imagine that these are the very reasons why we should not object. We would like to give that consideration to Mr Taverne. Finally, thank you very much for the motion, on which we would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you very much! I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, the members of the committee and the official support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-6.u47	This proposal is on the voting list for tonight or perhaps tonight. The same goes for that one motion.
