ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-6.u1	Coming in is the next letter. "President, I'm gonna have to get used to starting my speeches later on with that introductory phrase: "President." 'Cause I'm leaving the room. Next week, I'll join the Startup Delta team. A chance I couldn't and wanted to walk away. Because improving the start-up climate in the Netherlands is something you can wake me up for at night. Moreover, there is still work to be done on this point! Because in order to remain competitive as the Netherlands as a place of business for start-ups, we need to stay alert to opportunities, unintended barriers in laws and regulations and the competition of countries around us. Look, Chairman, I'm doing it again. Into the contents immediately. As far as that is concerned, it has only become clear to me in this house that I am a "real engineer." Preferably working on the contents. Everything around it, the debate, making sure you're noticed by the press, representing your own region; I found it all pretty distracted from what I came here to do: making the Netherlands smarter and more beautiful! Through innovation, smart solutions to societal challenges can be found. Preferably by helping entrepreneurs who not only want to conquer the world with their business, but who also want to improve with their business. And, Mr President, over the past few years, I have been able to get acquainted with many people who share that dream with me and are realizing it. I've met scientists who can make solar cells so thin and flexible, that we'll be charging our phones through our clothes. I have met young entrepreneurs who offer people from a distance from the labour market a workplace and training and thus get back to work. I've met teachers who catch up with new technologies in the classroom to give their students the chance to discover their talent. There are pioneers everywhere trying to reinvent the Netherlands. Even prettier and better. And among those pioneers, I feel at home. The contrast between "outside" and "inside" was sometimes large. I was glad that on Mondays and Fridays I could visit all these cool things and then on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays I could help overcome the barriers that stand in the way of these pioneers to achieve even more. But fair is fair: Monday and Friday sometimes gave barely enough energy to last Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Nevertheless, I am happy to look back on what I have achieved over the past few years. Technical education is on the map. The Dutch start-up ecosystem is highly listed in the international rankings. My ideas about a future-proof MBO system have been reflected in the Minister's plans. And I hope that even after I leave my proposals from the robot agenda will find their way to cabinet policy. Mr President, I can explain to my children why I have not always been there for the past six years. But I'm also glad I'm gonna see them more later. I just don't know if my teenagers feel the same way... I will not miss the plenary. It's the people in this room. With Tanja Jadnanancing I formed a gold duo. First as an opposition and coalition duo in all student soses about the longest study scheme. Later as coalition partners and advocates for technology in education and the revaluation of MBO as trainers of professionals. Together we showed that you can sometimes be ideologically far apart, but you can find each other in pragmatic solutions. And together, we'll leave the room today. I'll miss you, Tanoes. Just as I'm going to miss a lot of people from my own group. Because of the long nights we spent here together, it sometimes seemed more like a large family than colleagues. Thank you for that dear VVD'ers! It remains for me to thank all the staff in the Chamber. You formed for me, without you knowing, the link between the Hague reality and the normal world. It's gonna be you and this house, in the broadest sense of the word, okay. Anne-Wil Lucas'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Mrs Lucas, dear Anne-Wil. Your first words in the House of Representatives were as follows: "I have decided to fill in my maiden speech in the same way as I intend to fill in my membership: strong on the content, with the aim of making the Netherlands a little more beautiful, better and honest in every decision that is made here. That's why I'm switching to the content." Then you continued your input on the Drinking Water Decree. Your closing words are more or less the same: "immediately into the content." The big difference between then and now is your starting position, the place from which you want to make the Netherlands more beautiful, better and fairer: no longer from politics, but from practice. That's really gonna make your heart beat faster. That fits your sober Frisian attitude. Although you're originally from the Achterhoek, that "just do" mentality is from home in it. In an interview, you indicated that your parents didn't spend much time with the Binnenhof. Your husband is proud of you, but he often yells "just do it." And in Bakkeveen, they don't ask about the political situation, but they ask why you're not ready-to-go. Your motto, as you put it when you became a Member of Parliament: "There are plenty of nice plans, but they have to be implemented." For you, not abstract views, but tangible solutions close to the people. In the Chamberwork, your focus was on the practical impact of laws and rules, and less on the political game. In the Committee on Social Affairs, you dealt with technological developments in the labour market, among other things. In this context, you were in a guidance group of a research by the Rathenau Institute on robotization in the labour market. In the Committee for Education you made a strong commitment to vocational education and adult education. You were also interested in the issue of lifelong learning. You led a delegation to the European Championships in Lille, the so-called EuroSkills. Together with Tanja Jadnanancing you were impressed by the participants, their concentration and passion. Dear Anne-Wil, sometimes men tell you you're like a guy. That's not my quote. That's your quote. Sometimes you think you're too business and solution-oriented. I'm sure you need those qualities in your new role as programme manager at StartupDelta. I wish you very, very good luck with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-6.u3	Then I come to Tanja Jadnansingh's letter. Did you agree to leave together, at the same time? "Dear President, dear Khadija. I want every young person to be the best edition of himself." That's what I said in 2010 when I was asked about my motivation to enter the Chamber. As true as it was at the time, that is still my motivation today. Young people have been paying my attention for years, even before I went into politics. With great pleasure I have been mentoring a lot of young people for over twenty years, often from the big city. Every day I feel the urge to commit myself to all young people who haven't had the opportunities I did get in my life. Thanks to my parents, my father's notary, my mother's Spanish teacher, I have acquired skills to keep me standing anywhere in the world. How different is that for many young people who don't have the best role models in the neighborhood, who don't get away from home with how to stand up in a complex society? I have parents who have read me stories, who have taught me to have self-confidence, even when it becomes difficult, who have encouraged me to tell my own story, that you can decide how to make the best edition of yourself, with falling and getting up. For all those young people who feel insecure, who have not yet found the right writing or, more recently, who do not yet have the right technical means to tell their story, I fight every day so that they can. Of course they have to write that story themselves, but I sincerely believe that they do not have to do so alone. We in the House of Representatives have a moral duty to help them. I am grateful that, thanks to my spokesmanship here, I find that especially the young people in vocational education, or the thinking doers, as I like to call them, fascinate me and that I would like to contribute even more directly to their future. That they are being trained for tomorrow's jobs, not yesterday's. That they learn to be enterprising. Yes, chairman, the collaboration with Anne-Wil Lucas of the VVD has worked out! I want our young people to be proud professionals, valuable and confident. I don't doubt for a second that this is possible. But besides those tough young people, we all need courage, listening, empathy and feedback, not only in class, but also here in the Chamber. How can we expect the outside world to treat each other with respect if we do not always have that for each other? I would like to give my colleagues, now that I have the opportunity, enough to listen to each other. This will not be a sermon, quite the contrary! I believe that all Members of Parliament are sitting here with a desire to serve this society. And if there's anything else I can give you, it's the self-reflection. This letter should not be too long, and I cannot therefore go into all my colleagues in detail and the great admiration I feel for the commitment of everyone who lives in this beautiful House of Democracy; from the Members of Parliament to all the staff who ensure that we can do our job properly here. I am deeply grateful that I have been able to write a part of my life story here and I am now proud to continue my way to help all those young people who still have to tell their own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-6.u4	Dear Mrs. Jadnanancing, dear Tanja, you also close the Chamberwork with about the same words as you started with. In your maiden speech, you told the story of your grandfather and your father. In the family was little money but much ambition, and thanks to the accessible education system in the Netherlands your father could study. It made, so you said in your maiden speech, that you could make a nice start, and you'd give it to everyone. You stirred the President to tears, but more importantly, you gave insight into what moves you, both in politics and beyond. You entered the Chamber in 2010, as a relative outsider. Journalists had to get used to your name. I believe that, after Melanie Henriëtte Schultz of Haegen-Maas Geesteranus, most mistakes are made. The same goes for my name and so there are others. Two years later, you were the highest climber on the list of candidates for the 2012 election. From 2012 to 2015, you were chairman of the Permanent Committee for Security and Justice. In this role, you have not only chaired many committee meetings, but also visited Bulgaria, Greece and Norway, for example. In a refugee camp in Bulgaria you were so touched by the fact that there was nothing, that together with Agnes Wolbert you started a book collection. A few weeks later, boxes of books were delivered to Bulgaria. As chairman, you were charming and cheerful, and you left your colleagues the room to hold the debate. In 2015 you laid down your task as committee chairman, because you wanted to pay more attention to your real passion: education. In the permanent committee for Education, Culture and Science you were mainly concerned with vocational education and secondary education. One of the topics you spoke about was the math test. This led to strong discussions in the committee. You issued an initiative paper on the assurance of internship guidance and internship guarantee in the MBO. In addition, together with Michel Rog, you submitted an initiative proposal for an extended qualification requirement in education. How deep your love for education goes, it turned out during the budget treatment. You had a heavy flu back then, but you made a flaming argument about craftsmanship. Like Anne-Wil Lucas, you kept in touch with the practice. For two years, every week you invited a new group of students to eat together. In exchange for pizza, they'd tell you what they'd run into in college. It almost sounds like blackmail. Luckily, your commitment to education doesn't stop now that you're leaving the Chamber. In an interview, you once said that your faith taught you to go for it. From now on, you will no longer do so in the Chamber, but at Albeda College in Rotterdam. That's where you want to make sure young people get off to a good start. Dear Tanja, go for it! Take care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-6.u5	Let us now move on to the regulation of work. You're all welcome to sit here. You don't have to, but it's okay.
