ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u1	Today is the answer to the questions put by the Lower House in the first term. For the record, I'm gonna share with you who's in box K today. That is, of course, the initiator, Mrs Schouten. Next to her is the Minister for Housing and National Service, Mr Blok. Furthermore, there are three advisors, Matthijs de Snoo of youth organisation Perspectief, who has contributed to the bill, Maik Schumacher, supporting lawyer of the Ministry, and Frank Visser, policy officer of the ChristianUnion group in the Second Chamber. I wish everyone every success in the process and I would like to give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is quite right that you should appoint a number of people behind me, because they have indeed spent a great deal of time in the legislative proposal. They deserve to be praised for that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their constructive input in the first term. I would like to emphasise once again why we have written this bill. It is not easy for young people at the moment to get a rental house quickly, especially in cities where the scarcity is high. I think we all know examples of young people who have been looking for a long time, even though they have been in employment for a long time or perhaps want to get a job. We also know examples of young people who are at an age that they want to leave home, but do not have this possibility. From that point of view, the youth organisation of the Christian Union, Perspectief, came to the Dutch Parliamentary Group with the question whether we could co-operate on a solution. First of all, I would like to say that I am not pretending that this bill is the solution to all the problems. I would, however, like us to take this legislative proposal at least one step in the right direction to ensure that our young people have a fair chance on the housing market. Members have asked a number of important questions. I'll go through it one by one, to the best of my conscience. I would like to do that in a logical order, and that is why I have formulated a number of blocks; it might be useful for Members to know how I am going to respond. In the first block, I would like to comment on a number of general comments. In my second block I go into the target group of the bill and what the bill actually means to them. In the third block, I will consider the question of which homes the bill applies to and the role of the municipality in this respect. In the fourth block, I deal with the relationship between the bill and the bill on the housing market 2015 which we will be discussing tonight and which was sent to the Chamber in the celebrations. The fifth block is about the termination of the rent. The sixth block deals with the remaining points and the evaluation of the legislative proposal. Finally, I will deal with the amendments that have been tabled. First of all, I would like to comment on a number of general questions and comments. I agree with Mr Koolmees of D66 that the lack of transparency in the social rental market is an important problem for our housing market. With my own-initiative proposal, I want to make a modest contribution to solving this problem. In this case, by making the housing market more accessible to young people, by encouraging these young people to move again after a few years. Mr De Vries of the PvdA rightly pointed out that rent protection is a great asset. At the same time, it also indicated that rent protection protects the seated tenants, but not the new tenants who are eagerly looking for a home. I also welcome the announcement by Mr Ronnes of the CDA that the greater availability of housing for young people will probably cross the line. I would like to stress here, after all the spokesmen, that rent protection is also an important element for us. Mr Bashir of the SP asked if this bill would help solve the housing shortage that exists in many places. That answer is "no." However, the legislative proposal helps to share the scarcity more fairly. In this sense, the housing shortage of young people who sometimes wait a long time for a home is being addressed. But that's not enough to solve the housing shortage. I therefore fully agree with Mr De Vries of the PvdA, Mr Bashir of the SP and Mr Koolmees of D66 that building houses is the best solution and that this should be done much more than is currently the case. In this respect, Mr Bashir rightly referred to Article 22 (2) of the Constitution, which states that the promotion of adequate housing is a matter of public concern. I notice that the government is doing the same. But building more takes time. There will always be a difference in supply and demand. This does not just have to be a quantitative difference. It could also be a qualitative problem. The question to us is how we deal with this scarcity as best we can. With Mr Van der Linde of the VVD I share the view that the flow is important, so that social housing is used as much as possible by the target group. Mr Bashir said he had difficulty in distinguishing between old and young and studying and non-student, because everyone has the right to an affordable home, without waiting lists. I would also prefer a world without waiting lists. But precisely because of the scarcity that exists, we have been making this distinction in campus contracts for years, and to the full satisfaction. We have also made the distinction for young people through labels for years. The new element in my proposal is the possibility of terminating the contract after five years on the basis of urgent personal use. In an ideal situation, my bill shouldn't be necessary. Perhaps it will indeed happen again that one of my successors will abolish the youth contract. If the reason for this is that there are enough homes for this target group, I would not be sad for a second, but that is the future. Mr. Bishop placed my bill in a historical perspective and sketched the picture of young couples in the attic with parents, in the years of great housing shortage, right after the war. It seems cozy, but I don't think it was ideal. Luckily, the housing shortage isn't that high anymore. Well, there are still waiting lists. To stick to the image of Mr Bishop: not all parents have an attic either. That's exactly the reason for this bill. Mr Bashir asked whether the choice between being forced to stay at home or a temporary contract rather than security is a choice. It's different for everyone. However, I am convinced that a lot of young people are happy if they can get to a home so quickly. They are currently the outsiders in the housing market. My bill would like to give these outsiders more opportunities to find a place to live. This requires a careful balance between their interests and those of the incumbent tenants. My starting point has been to maintain the rights of the tenants as much as possible. I come to the specific questions that have been asked, first of all about the target group. The bill is aimed at young people up to 27 years of age. Mr De Vries and Mr Koolmees rightly pointed out that, under the current circumstances, these young people are particularly affected by the housing market. This bill seeks to accommodate this group by explicitly making and keeping part of the stock available to these young people. This fits perfectly with this target group. Mr De Vries and Mr Van der Linde, as well as other spokesmen, rightly pointed out that there will be a large group of start-ups who will be able to make a career in a limited period of time and will therefore be able to take a next step in the living career. But not everyone can take this step. There are young people who will continue to rely on social housing after the end of the youth contract. Mr Bashir was right to point out an amendment to my proposal in relation to an earlier draft. It is precisely in order to help young people that I provided in the legislative proposal as an additional guarantee that young people who enter into a youth contract will retain their already built-up enrolment period. Thus, their chances of having a regular social rental house remain the same and they can continue to build up their registration period during the duration of the youth contract. Mr Madlener spoke of a serious problem in student housing. I agree with him that student housing in some cities is still a major problem, although in recent years there has been a significant addition and the campus contracts have been very helpful. To avoid misunderstandings, my bill is not about students, but about graduates and other young people. However, students can also make use of the youth contract. The target group is defined on the basis of age and not on the basis of whether or not someone is a student. For students, however, the campus contract will often be more attractive, because this contract lasts as long as the study, even if your study lags. Mr Madlener also rightly compared his own study time, in which student rooms were held unnecessarily long. That is exactly what we are trying to avoid with this bill, but for the young people's homes. In student rooms this has already been arranged through the campus contracts and I want to continue this success to the youth homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u3	So it's not about student housing. Apparently, that's a misunderstanding. It concerns everyone in the Netherlands up to 27 years old. Now that is exactly the group of asylum seekers who are pouring into our country massively. Those are very often young men, the testosterone bombs up to 27 years old. Does your plan also apply to this group, for example for status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr Madlener rightly distinguishes between asylum seekers and status holders. Status holders may stay here in the Netherlands. If status holders meet the conditions of this law, i.e. are indeed between 18 and 27 years old, they can also use it. My bill makes no distinction on the basis of background.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u5	Mr Madlener, shall we drop those qualifications? Then you may ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u6	I'm talking about my own words, and I'd like to keep it that way. I hope that we will be able to speak freely in this Chamber, and I believe that it is also very important for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u7	Mr Madlener, I am not here as a Member of Parliament of D66, but I am the President of this debate. I ask you not to give qualifications about people who cannot defend themselves. For the rest, you are all about your own words. You may ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u8	I want to express myself in my own way here, so people in the country understand what I'm talking about. I want to do this in a free and undisturbed way. I find it very strange that I am being rebuked by the President in this way, so I'm just going on with my story. In many countries, such as Germany, it is almost impossible to get a home, especially for asylum seekers or status holders. Now this proposal is going to make it much better, especially for this group. It's got a huge sucking effect. Has Mrs Schouten thought about that? I have not been able to read back any of this in her proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u9	I do not have the impression that there is now a huge influx of asylum seekers to the Netherlands because this bill may be passed, so I do not see that sucking effect as one, two, three. It is a fact that someone who is allowed to stay in the Netherlands has the same rights as all Dutch people. The same applies to the status holders group. If Mr Madlener thinks otherwise, he can put forward his own proposals, but I do not like them. I believe that people who have these rights should also be given them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u10	Mr Madlener, I see you're trying to interrupt, but we're doing two-way interruptions. I would ask Mrs Schouten to continue her speech. Mrs. Schouten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr De Vries asked whether there would be sufficient supply in all housing markets in the Netherlands after the end of the lease, i.e. after five years and in exceptional cases after seven years, for young people who would no longer be in the social sector. After all, it is no good to them to go through the registration period. I think that Mr De Vries raises an important point here. Perhaps it is the biggest challenge in our current housing market to get more middle-priced rentals in the Netherlands, as the entry threshold to the sales market is not exactly low either. However, this goes far beyond my legislative proposal. This seems to me to be a good question for those who advise the Chamber from the cabinet. How can the middle segment outside the social rental market be increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u12	I would like to thank Mrs Schouten for her reply, but I was particularly concerned about the following. If we continue the registration period for five or seven years, is it reasonable to expect that the young people who are still dependent on a social housing, in large parts of the Netherlands, really have a good chance of doing so? I think that is really important, because Mrs Schouten is actually assuming that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u13	That is a different question than the one I have answered. As far as I know, Mr De Vries' first question was about the group which would no longer be covered by the social rental sector. This group should focus, for example, on the liberalised segment, or on the sales market, due to over-earning. So my answer was about whether there is a reasonable chance that they will be able to get a home in the social housing sector. To this end, we are going to allow this registration period to continue, because it is possible that they will still keep their registration period for five or seven years. The young people also know that if they are in such a home, they will have to leave after a certain period of time. That could affect their search behavior at the time. I cannot guarantee that they will get a house in the centre of Amsterdam. That is where the length of the waiting periods really runs. However, I do think that, with such a long, continuous registration period, they can still get such a rental house at a reasonable distance, because the waiting lists will provide for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u14	I understand, of course, that not all people can live in the centre of Amsterdam, because there the scarcity is the greatest in the country. This is what I'm talking about. If the registration period continues, can you reasonably expect young people who are still dependent on the social sector after a period of five to seven years to have a reasonable chance of finding a home within a short period of time? That is what Mrs Schouten's proposal stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u15	That is a valid point. I also think it is right to ask you whether there will indeed be enough rental homes in the future. I can't see how that's going to develop already in the future. This question therefore seems to me to be a warm encouragement to those who advise the Court on this matter to ensure that there are sufficient housing left in that segment. On the basis of the data we have now, this should be achieved largely with a registration period of five to seven years. The PvdA also asks whether we should also do something extra for young people, such as a variable second term for young people with incomes above that of the social target group. That is the group I was just talking about, which is no longer covered by the social rental sector. These young people no longer have a chance to flow out of the social stock, or they need more time to do so, given the offer in the housing region concerned. I find that thought interesting, but it goes beyond this bill and also raises the question of where the limit should be. For example, we do not say to young people who still live at home or come from another region: you do not belong to the social target group but because you cannot find a middle-priced rental house or property, we still offer you a social rental house. I don't think we should go that way. As I have just said, it is a task for all of us, and in particular for the cabinet, to ensure that the middle segment continues to develop. I'll be on my third block. Which houses are involved and what exactly is the role of the municipality? The municipality already has the power to agree on the distribution of housing together with authorised institutions and tenant organisations in a general sense. This can be done through performance agreements. For example, you could think of a minimum and maximum number of homes rented out with a youth contract or agreements on the number of houses labelled for young people with a regular rental contract. In addition, a municipality may regulate even more specific matters in the housing regulation. An additional legal guarantee is therefore unnecessary. On the role of the municipality in the youth contract, Mr De Vries tabled an amendment to item No. 9. I share Mr De Vries' view that the city council should be able to send some. This is already the case through performance agreements or, if there is, the housing regulation. Mr De Vries, with his amendment, asks for item No. 9 to identify in a new paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the Housing Act 2014 clearly and sustainably which properties are rented out with a youth contract. I have had to look very carefully at what Mr De Vries means by this amendment. I suspect that what Mr De Vries is asking for is already possible without this amendment. I have just indicated that: it can be done by means of performance agreements or by means of the housing regulation. Perhaps Mr De Vries would like to explain this. The amendment can also be read in such a way that the city council can determine how many youth contracts there are and that this is not possible outside the regulated sector. Perhaps he can clarify that for himself, because I found it difficult to interpret the amendment properly on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u16	The aim of the amendment is to ensure that once houses labelled for young people are kept in the air for future generations of young people. I've had a good look at it. Mrs Schouten is right that the municipality can already arrange a lot of things in the housing regulation and also make a lot of arrangements through the performance agreements. I also think it is important to make use of the provision that the house is needed for its own use after the conclusion of the contract. That means, at least if I see it correctly, that the property must be rented back to a younger person. If that is the case, if Mrs Schouten confirms it, my amendment will become somewhat superfluous. If she confirms that, I'm willing to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u17	I can totally confirm that. The aim of this proposal is precisely to ensure that a housing covered by the youth contract continues to be covered by that youth contract. Indeed, the term "urgent self-use" has been used in law for this purpose. If not, so if a landlord finally decides not to rent out to the target group, the original tenant can return to the court and indicate that it is outside the contract. The municipality can also find some of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u18	So enforcement has also been arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u19	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u20	That is enough for me to withdraw the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u21	The amendment tabled by Mr de Vries (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u22	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop asked about the expectation that youth contracts would be mainly used in housing which is already being used for young people. This is simply because this is the type of housing that young people are looking for, because they can pay for these homes and because municipalities have often already made agreements with the corporations. Municipalities can also agree on the number of youth contracts in the same way. It is obvious that this will be about the same homes. I am not so afraid that groups other than young people will get into trouble. It is rather the other way around: by encouraging young people to flow through, there are more often smaller rental homes left for other target groups. I certainly do not exclude that more homes will be labeled as youth homes. However, if this leads to a better flow, this will, on balance, have a positive impact on other target groups. Mr Bishop asked whether the youth contract could not be improperly used as a wider trial period to reduce risks. That fear does not seem to me to be justified. If, after five years, youth contracts were to be converted massively into open-ended contracts, authorised institutions would no longer be able to meet their commitments with the municipalities unless they were fully compensated by the construction of new housing with youth contracts. If there is not the risk that young people with sufficient income will also face a temporary contract, Mr Bisschop asked. In view of the appropriate allocation, this could only be done in the liberalised rental sector. I do not think that there is a chance that the youth contract will be used as a kind of pilot contract. After all, a five-year trial period is a very broad one. Moreover, the requirement for termination in the contract is that a new youngster be ready for this home. The Youth Contract will mainly be used by those parties that have set themselves the goal of housing young people and want to do so permanently. I come to block four: the relationship with the Minister's bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u23	Before we begin, Mr Madlener has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u24	I assume we're dealing with single young people here. What type of apartment are we talking about? For example, is it a single-family home? Suppose a private landlord likes to rent his single-family home with a trial period, without being tied up with it, and therefore decides to turn it into a youth home using this bill. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u25	That's possible, but he'll be stuck with it for five years. He also knows that the subsequent tenant must also be a younger tenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u26	Why should the subsequent tenant be a younger tenant? You don't have to do that, do you? He can decide not to do it after the first period, can't he? I have one more question. What happens if a younger person has to leave the house after five years and has no other home? That can happen often, because it's hard to find a place. Someone like that gets kicked out. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u27	In response to that first point, that is the very essence of the legislative proposal. It refers to the so-called "urgent own use," a term laid down in the Civil Code. If the subsequent tenant is not covered by the same target group, the original tenant can say that the requirements of the contract are no longer met. He may then require that he stays in that house unless certain expenses are reimbursed and a financial allowance is made. The threshold for not offering the contract to a younger person is therefore very high. Such relatively rigid provisions will make it particularly important for the parties concerned to rent out these homes to young people for a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u28	As your first question was very short, I will allow a follow-up question for this time, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u29	I am afraid that not only the owners of a single-person house will benefit from this scheme, but that landlords will decide to use single-family homes or three-room apartments for this purpose, for example to accommodate asylum seekers for a certain period of time. This leads to labour market displacement for people who have been on a waiting list for years to get this type of home. And what happens next, when you get out on the street? Then the church will still have a duty to rehabit, because it cannot become homeless in this country. In this way, this regulation can be abused by means of a detour. Did you think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u30	If there are several people living in one house, you no longer have to deal with an independent living space. Then it's an unselfish living space. That's not what this bill says. This is a five-year independent living space for a defined target group, young people aged between 18 and 27. In the event of a derogation, the tenant may require the court to remain there or that certain costs be reimbursed. These are such high thresholds for a landlord to work with that this will only attract landlords who really want to serve this target group. It is also a question of social housing, not housing in the liberalised sector. This may happen, but given the size of the housing and the way in which such housing is designed, they will be mainly in the social housing sector. So it won't be that fast. There's a lot of rules to it. And again, it's not that easy to put someone out on the street for a while because you think it's easy to put someone else in, who isn't among the target group. Rental protection is already subject to very strict rules, which apply to this contract as well. I now come to the fourth block: the relationship with the Minister's bill. When we dealt with this bill in December, the Minister's bill had not yet been submitted to the Chamber. By now, it has happened around Christmas. We will be discussing the proposal for the Wet doordraagmarkt 2015 here in a few hours. Colleagues have been able to read how the two laws relate to each other. They have also been able to see that a co-decision clause has been introduced for overlap between this bill and the bill that we are discussing this evening. The SP Group expressed its concern at the continuing expansion of temporary contracts. The PvdA Group was also opposed to allowing temporary leases across the board and stated that fixed leases should remain the norm. Let me be clear that I too believe that fixed leases should be the norm. In some cases temporary contracts can be well defended, but we need to settle them as best we can. Mr Bashir pointed out the lack of rights in the anti-cracking contracts and asked me to ban these contracts. In my opinion, the anti-cracking contracts are the best reason for making this type of youth contract possible. Many young people enter the housing market with inferior contracts, without rent protection and without any right to build up. It is precisely those young people who are offered a chance through this legislative proposal to build up these rights and to enjoy rent protection and to be able to pass on to a decent home after a certain period if their income is higher or if they have built up a longer registration period. The Minister's bill will undoubtedly raise the question of where to find temporary leases and where not acceptable. That will vary from one group to another. As for my bill, I can say that in September the report Fit living was issued by the research agency ABF. Mr Van der Linde referred to this as well. This report was commissioned by Aedes and the House Union. The report concludes that temporary leases for young people are good for the availability of housing and that they help to avoid skews. The report recommends that this type of contract be used. If there's such a broad support for these contracts, I'm glad we're gonna get them, too. Mr De Vries made another interesting comment on the accumulation of flexibility provisions through the Civil Code route. He thinks it would be better to codify "urgent own use" in another more public-oriented law. Rental protection is a private matter between landlord and tenant and belongs in the Civil Code. Of course, as mentioned above, the municipality plays a role, but it does not intervene in the relationship between the landlord and the tenant. Whether there should be a further discussion about the term 'urgent own use' and what is all attached to it is worth considering, but we have sought to follow the case law that has already been built up with this term, for example with regard to campus contracts. Mr Bishop asked about the support given in my bill and the need for additional housing for asylum seekers with a residence permit. This issue is dealt with in the bill submitted by the Minister. I come to the fifth block, the point of termination of the rent. Many questions have been asked about the termination of the rent on the youth contracts. Mr Ronnes stated that the bill would automatically terminate the youth contracts after five years. I think it is important to emphasise here that this is not the case in this legislative proposal. Those contracts shall not automatically lapse. The landlord must cancel and then a judicial test remains possible if the tenant so requests or actually remains seated. Mr Madlener asked whether it would be better if the rent was automatically cancelled after five years. However, he himself has already put forward the arguments why that would not be sensible. The judicial test is a final protection which may be necessary and, as far as I am concerned, necessary in special cases. By the way, tenants know very well that the rent can be cancelled. The termination of the rental of campus contracts is hardly contested by the court. Moreover, the termination of the rent in my bill is less complicated for the landlords than for the campus contracts, because it does not need to be determined whether someone has already graduated or not. From the start of the rental contract it is clear exactly when the rental can be cancelled. Mr De Vries did not think it was consistent that the youth contract would automatically become an open-ended lease if neither party were to terminate. However, this is already the case with campus contracts and in practice this is hardly the case. I just reported this. After all, it is the landlord himself who has opted for this form of contract and who benefits from the possibility of termination being used. It is precisely in order to protect the tenant that an action is needed from the landlord and in the extreme case the young person can appeal to the judge. The consequence is that it is possible that a rental contract becomes permanent if the landlord does not cancel the rental. I don't see why converting it automatically to a contract for an indefinite period of time would be improper use. The possibility of cancellation of the youth contract is precisely the exception to the main rule of the permanent contract. Mr De Vries said that this would remove a house for young people from stock. However, that is not the case, because the rental contract is different from the label. The label simply remains in place, even if the rental contract has been applied for an indefinite period. That is the case now. The youth contract makes that flowing will be the starting point. The current youth labels without a youth contract do not allow tenants who no longer belong to the target group to pass on. It's probably gonna happen later. Mr Bishop wanted more clarity on the course for extending the youth contract. He states that the legislative proposal does not restrict the substance of the extension. That's right. Indeed, it is only about the agreement between the tenant and the landlord. In my opinion, much more detailed is not to settle this in a general sense. It is true that this element is mainly placed in the explanatory memorandum in the context of special circumstances. I have also expressed that it is not something the tenant can count on in advance. However, if the possibility had not been built in, the landlord would not have had any possibility of offering such an extension other than by converting the lease into an indefinite contract. That is precisely what I think is undesirable when it comes to special circumstances. As a result, the landlord can also get into trouble with the agreements with the municipalities about the number of youth contracts. Mr Koolmees asked how many young people would benefit from the extension option of the contract and what this says about its effectiveness. I can't predict that in advance. I wish I could. Even if it's just a few, that doesn't mean it's not effective. It offers space for customization for landlords who can just offer a solution for individual young people, without the landlord having to change to an indefinite contract and without the tenant or the younger person getting into immediate trouble. Mr Koolmees also asked whether five years were not too short, because sometimes the waiting times are longer. A question has also been asked by Mr De Vries. In the Amsterdam experiment with the youth contract, young people were still worried about finding a social rental house. Mr Ronnes has also asked this question. This bill provides an incentive to actually start looking for a new home. If the deadline were to be extended, this incentive could be reduced and the legislative proposal could lose the spill-over effect it is intended to achieve. That is why I have arranged for the registration period to be maintained, so that young people really get a chance at a next step in the housing market. I come to the sixth block, that on the other points. First of all, the evaluation of the legislative proposal. The PvdA considers an evaluation after five years too early, as the situation with possible extension of youth contracts cannot be measured. I see that an amendment has been tabled which provides for a second evaluation after 10 years. That seems to me to be a good proposal. At the first evaluation moment you can see how the inflow is going and second how the flow is going. I can already say that it is a good amendment as far as I am concerned, but my adviser will also have an opinion on it. The SP asked in what way my bill will stimulate housing. As a result of youth contracts, direct housing is no longer available. However, by encouraging the flow of the bill, it makes it more attractive for providers to invest for the target group leaving the youth home. By enabling youth contracts, it also makes it more attractive for authorised institutions to build small homes for this category of house seekers. It becomes more attractive for young people in their search for a home to accept a small house with a youth contract, because the registration period is maintained. In the indirect sense, therefore, my bill can contribute to housing, especially an offer that is more in line with demand. Mr Bashir also expressed his concern that the age limit of 27 years would be moved forward, leading to an increasing number of target groups dealing with rental contracts which could be terminated on the grounds of urgent personal use. The age limit is enshrined in the law by this bill. This means that amendment is only possible by re-modifying the law. This is what the Chamber will have to decide. There is Mr Bashir, or one of his successors, then himself. Mr Bashir also asked what I would do with the landlord levy in relation to the investment capacity of corporations. This question is outside the scope of this legislative proposal, but, as Mr Bashir knows, there will be an evaluation of the landlord levy. I am sure we will be able to talk more about this. Mr Bishop asked a question about part a of the bill. This is gonna be a little technical. In this section, a sentence is added to the Civil Code Book 7, Article 274 (4) in which young people are inserted into the existing article on campus contracts. Mr Bishop asked how this should be read, as this bill is not about campus contracts. So his question was whether I was doing something double here. I can reassure Mr Bishop. With the sentence I add, nothing changes to the target group of the campus contracts. I have included a mirror sentence in the new proposed Article 274a (5) on youth contracts. Those two sentences provide some flexibility for campus landlords and youth homes. The starting point is that campus houses have to be rented again to a student, and youth homes again to a younger person. These two sentences make it possible to rent a campus house to a younger and a youth home to a student, if this would be absolutely necessary. Both are of course within the target group as laid down in the law. This allows landlords to respond to changing market demand. This offers a little flexibility, for example if the number of students falls sharply but the number of young people looking for a home is still high. However, I must point out that in terms of social housing it can be limited by performance agreements with the municipality or by rules on the use of campus contracts and youth contracts in the municipal housing regulation. Mr De Vries said that it was important to prevent landlords from taking advantage of the scheme of the youth contract to increase the rent for each change, making the house unreachable for young people. Mr Koolmees asked whether my bill had an adverse effect on the affordability of rentals. I understand this concern. Rent increase in case of mutation is indeed possible. This is not new, but if new tenants come in more often, there can be more harmonisation. However, it is equally conceivable that if a landlord knows that a house is mutating more often, he will limit the level of harmonisation of rents, because he knows that after five years he can harmonise again. Moreover, of course, the maximum rental price still applies on the basis of the housing valuation system. Mr Koolmees asked if there are any municipalities that have indicated that they would like to get to work on the bill. I know that the youth contract has already been discussed in several municipalities, such as Amsterdam, Utrecht, Nijmegen and Haarlem. I have not yet heard that there are plans to make performance agreements on the minimum and maximum number of homes with a youth contract. We can't do that until the bill is passed. The interest of landlords is, in my view, considerable, especially among those who are already experimenting with the youth contracts. During the last few weeks they regularly asked me when the treatment would be completed in the Lower House. Mr Bashir asked whether my bill would have any impact on the ties people have with the neighbourhood or the neighbourhood, given the temporary nature of the youth contract. I do not think that my legislative proposal has any major consequences in this respect. The degree of bondage I think is largely related to the life stage of people. Families with children seem to me to be far more affected than young people, who are more likely to change jobs or move from one job to another. With them there is already a lot of change, also in the area of the housing market. Mr Van der Linde has not asked so many questions, but I would like to make one comment. He thinks that a small landlord is much more likely to market a property if he can more easily get rid of a rental contract. I don't have any specific clues for that. As a landlord you have the assurance that you can re-use the property for the target group after the end of the youth contract. But if that landlords were to cross the line, that would of course be very nice. I'm almost at the end of my answer. I shall now turn to the amendments that have been tabled, as far as I have not yet dealt with them. I have the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr De Vries and his evaluation amendment. The Albert de Vries amendment in part No. 10 asks corporations to provide support to young people with a ending youth contract, which is still part of the target group on the basis of their income, who can reasonably be required to find another home. That is the compulsion and urge amendment for the landlord to ensure that the younger can continue to flow. I do not know exactly what Mr De Vries is asking of the corporations, because the concept of'reasonability' is a very open standard. I would almost like to ask what Mr De Vries thinks about the term'reasonable'. What does he think is reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u31	Of course, here and there, I have drawn my attention to the extent to which this is enforceable in practice and to what extent corporations are inclined to support young people who are in such a situation. Frankly, I also doubt the legal strength of the amendment. I am a little reassured by the views I hear from the corporations here and there. That is why I wanted to replace this amendment with the amendment on that extra evaluation. Then we can properly monitor whether what we expect is also happening in practice. So I am prepared to withdraw the amendment on duty of care, especially now that Mrs Schouten has accepted the other amendment from me. I hope the consultant does the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u32	The amendment tabled by Mr de Vries (Doc. 10) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u33	I would like to thank Mr De Vries for the explanation. I think that all the housing corporations listening in have heard his words and hopefully take them to heart, so that they can inform, advise and say to them: beware, this is a temporary lease; this also means something. But I think everyone heard what Mr De Vries had to say about that. Thank you for withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u34	I have a technical question. Accepting an amendment means that it will be an integral part of the initiative legislative proposal from then on. But you indicated that you were looking favourably at the amendment and that you were waiting for the opinion of the consultant on behalf of the cabinet. There was therefore a positive opinion on the amendment, but that is something other than accepting the amendment. I'd like to get a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u35	Mr President, you have much more experience than I do. That's what it turns out. The way you see it, I meant it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u36	That's what I asked just in case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Bishop's amendment to item No. 11, which provides that the proposed youth contract can also be used for young people under the age of 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u38	Mrs Schouten, I have another technical point. The amendment in part No. 11 has now been replaced by the amendment to item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u39	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. At least you're faster than many. Fine, so this is the Bishop's amendment to item No. 12. In his term, Mr Bishop pointed out that there were regular problems of connection with fast learners, who make the transition to higher education. He asked why these students should not use this bill, while students who are a few months older are allowed to do so. Is the age limit of 18 years in my legislative proposal so necessary? I can say straight away that I welcome the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop. Now it's already the case that in principle you can't rent until you're of age. However, minors can enter into a lease. This can be done if they have been declared capable of action or if no appeal is made to destroy the agreement. There are situations where this is obvious. As a result, corporations can offer tailor-made services to minors in these situations. With the amendment, there is nothing in the way of offering the same customisation in the form of youth contracts. In short, I see the amendment as an improvement in my legislative proposal and would like to give it a positive opinion. Of course, I am also curious about the opinion of my advisor on this. I have dealt with all the amendments and I hope I have answered all the questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u40	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take a last look around at the members. Next we go to the advisor on behalf of the cabinet, Minister Blok voor Wonen and Rijksdienst.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u41	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Schouten and her advisers on the work they have done and on the content of this bill. In our democracy, one of the most fundamental rights of the Chamber, perhaps the most essential right, is the right to submit its own laws. Even if a government was allowed to delay or disagree with a law, this is not the issue here in either case. The People's Party can use its main means of power and make its own proposal to achieve the desired result. In substance, I very much recognise the need for these youth contracts. Young people are newcomers to the housing market and they are often drawing the short straws at the moment. At the same time, you can see that there is not enough flow on the housing market. Transit is an important subject of government policy. This bill tackles this problem well, without breaking down the foundations of rent protection. Passing the registration period for the waiting list for social housing, for example, means that young people are not in a bad position if they still have an income at the end of that period that qualifies them for a social housing. If they now have a higher income, they are rightly asked to make room for people who at that time depend on a social housing. Tonight, we are discussing a number of proposals from the government concerning the flow into the rental market. In any case, it is my intention to integrate Mrs Schouten's proposal seamlessly into the legislation. Mr De Vries has specifically asked me what measures the cabinet is going to take to increase the middle segment, because the young people who flow through, if they do not pass through to a house of sale, will pass through to a medium-priced rental house. To this end, a package of measures has been taken. Let me give you two examples. Clarifying the area of responsibility of housing corporations, which means that investors such as pension funds know that they invest on a level playing field. Freezing the liberalization limit so that that part of the rental market that is most in demand, just above the liberalization limit, does not cause the investor any concern as to whether he will be overtaken by the liberalization limit and the stricter rental legislation that will then apply. I hope to report to the Chamber shortly on the motion by Mr Monasch and Mr Van der Linde at the time in which the government is asked to adapt the housing valuation system so that it can be built just above that social rental threshold. In my opinion, the law we are discussing tonight also provides incentives to create more offers in the middle segment. In addition, the Chamber knows that I invest a lot of energy in discussions with investors at home and abroad about the high demand for middle-priced rentals and that I explain to them that the legal changes that have taken place in the Netherlands make it more attractive to them. Those messages do not fall completely into deaf ears, because we see an increase in production. Also recently there was another publication in the press showing that investors want to invest some billions in Dutch free sector rentals. It is not often that we are able to see in this Chamber that money is available in search of a destination. The municipalities also have an important role to play here. Traditionally they make part of the building land available to housing corporations and another part at the highest possible price for residential properties. It is very important that municipalities also allocate an important part of the land to the middle-cost rental segment, because it keeps middle-income income in those municipalities. I come to the advice on the amendments. Mr De Vries has now withdrawn two amendments. Moreover, I fully endorse Mrs Schouten's argument. On what Mr Bishop proposes in his amended amendment to item No. 12 I would like to say that I should have thought of it myself, but that is what Mr Bishop did. I signed a lease for my 17-year-old son last summer. The landlord had invented that he was not capable of action.My son thought otherwise about this and that's why I signed it. After all, he needed a room. This illustrates precisely that the legislation has just failed. I always think the finder deserves a finder's fee. I think it is the most chic thing that the amendment simply remains the Bishop's amendment and that I also strongly recommend the amendment to the Chamber on the part of the government. The same is true of the amendment by Mr de Vries, on item No. 13, which provides for a clear evaluation to be carried out after 10 years. The housing market is a market in which movements take place rather slowly. That is why I agree with Mr De Vries that after five years you have an important first indication, but it is also good to have another look after ten years. With these warm recommendations I hope to have answered the questions of the Chamber to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u42	That is almost entirely the case, with the exception of Mr Madlener's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u43	I would like an answer to my earlier question. It is sometimes more attractive for a landlord to offer this type of lease than regular leases. You have some kind of trial period, which means you're not so attached to it. Could it lead to some kind of displacement on the housing market in the sense that, for example, single-family homes or two-room apartments intended for couples, but not for this target group, go to this target group? Especially given the huge influx of minors, but also of adult asylum seekers under the age of 28, they can all enter the rental market under this flag. Does the Minister see that danger? If so, can he take that away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u44	Mrs Schouten was right to point out that it is not only attractive for a landlord to use this scheme because only the grounds for cancellation can be invoked if the next tenant is a younger tenant. For this reason, a landlord will never use this mass, but will use it in the type of housing that is ideally suited for young people. Whether it's a couple or a single person usually depends only on the width of the bed. I am convinced that this termination ground will not be used massively or exclusively in this way. As far as status holders are concerned, Mr Madlener knows that we do not make a distinction in the legislation on the basis of the residence permit of people, but that the government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, has concluded an administrative agreement with which we make money available for extra independent living space, in order to create additional living space. Part of the agreement is to allow a five-year contract at the request of the housing corporations. Housing corporations want to be able to say after such a period: perhaps now there is less demand for independent living space, we put a wall out of it so practical it is then mostly... and make it an independent living space. That is clearly a different kind of contract from what we are talking about here. In short, I do not share Mr Madlener's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u45	I can't stop worrying, especially given the Minister's explanation. This proposal may not be in line with the government's previous proposal, because it does, of course, make a distinction between status holders and Dutch citizens. After all, austere housing for status holders has been chosen, and that is not what this proposal is about. So it could be that corporations say: let's just use it for status holders instead of putting more people in one house with a wall in between. Then why wouldn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u46	Mr Madlener's wording can still gain in precision. He said the government has chosen sober housing for status holders. The government has opted for an expansion of the stock with sober housing. We need housing quickly in the short term and taxpayers' money is scarce. Moreover, wider society also needs fast accessible, sober housing. However, we have also explicitly stated that it is not intended to become separate complexes. This is not good for integration, not good for the people who come and not good for Dutch villages and cities. Part of the agreements with municipalities is that they would always involve mixed complexes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u47	The question has now been asked and answered twice. There is also a second deadline, I say to Mr Madlener. That is what we can now move on to. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, of course, it is a very sympathetic proposal. I understand the problem here. I know the problem that young people's homes in large cities are occupied by young people who are unable to find a home, which means that the house is no longer available. This bill then aims to expel these young people after five years, with some coercion from the contract. I can understand that. On the other hand, I have the concern, which the Minister has not been able to remove, that this will be used for status holders. I can't really see the consequences of this. I will therefore have to give further consideration to a final assessment, including with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u49	Mr. Chairman. As I said in my first term, the real solution to the problem we are discussing here is to ensure that sufficient housing is built. All the Minister's efforts are directed towards this, but the pace is still very slow. That's why groups of people get in trouble. This bill ensures that groups that are actually out of the question are now being helped by young people and start-ups. We welcome this overall, because these groups deserve to have housing. You can see from the campus contracts that this can work. For the PvdA the fixed contract should remain the starting point. Temporary contracts should therefore be used as an exception, but if there are good reasons for doing so, this should be possible. We are also confident that local politics could make agreements in the performance agreements and in the housing regulations if things get out of hand. We've read the ABF report. In this we see the confirmation that Mrs Schouten has also seen in it. Like Mrs Schouten, we hope that in the second evaluation of the law we will find that the law is no longer necessary and that there will be sufficient housing. If we can achieve that, we have bridged that period very nicely and we have given all young people a chance to live pleasantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u50	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Schouten said that anti-cracking contracts are inferior to quality. I'd like to push against that for a while. I think these contracts are really ideal, especially in a country where cracking is still possible in a lot of places, with the big cities at the top. They also offer an opportunity to rent a lot of square meters very cheaply. For example, for visual artists that is still absolutely beautiful. I estimate that we will soon be discussing the evaluation of creaking and emptying in this context. Then I'll come back to this in great detail. Mrs. Schouten is doubting whether you're really pulling new landlords over with temporary leases. That was the thrust of the ABF report. It says that temporary leases are good for the availability of those properties. We will come back to that in detail tonight, but if Mrs Schouten does not agree with me, I would like to hear it tonight. I wish Mrs Schouten happiness once again. I really see this bill as a kickstart for a lot of other things that we're going to discuss tonight. With this, we really make a big contribution to the availability of youth homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u51	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by congratulating Mrs Schouten for answering the questions of the Chamber. I have to say that I think she has gone through all the questions and that there are no unanswered questions left. A lot of rulers can learn from that. Then there are a few substantive comments. Mrs Schouten replied that the housing shortage will not be resolved by means of her legislative proposal. At the same time, she said that her bill would not encourage housing, at least not directly. It has also said that it is in favour of keeping fixed contracts as a standard and not making temporary contracts the norm. However, Mrs Schouten has put a lot of energy and time into making this bill. I wonder why it does not tackle the problems at the heart. We have huge waiting lists right now. Lots of people are waiting for a place to live. We can tackle this problem by really building, building and building, but also by doing something about the landlord tax. The figures show that more and more young start-ups are entering the housing market. We can make agreements with the housing corporations and establish in performance agreements that they need to build. In fact, if this does not happen enough, it is because we have had a housing shortage since the 1950s; it is being built, but the waiting lists are not going down. As legislators, we can include provisions that an approved institution must comply with. It wouldn't be crazy to record that they have to build. I regret that Mrs Schouten did not put her energy into it. In that case, we could really have had a revolution, namely housing for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u52	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to begin by congratulating the initiator on her extensive and competent first-term response. In this respect, I am reassured at one of the points we have raised in the first term: what to do when the contract expires? How do you ensure that the resident or resident concerned stays in the picture for a subsequent residence? Mrs Schouten stressed that the possibility of staying on the waiting list could remove concerns among those concerned that they would lose the rights built up in the past. Last time, I ended with the remark that the effect that more available housing will come has drawn us over the line. That is correct, as Mrs Schouten reminded us once again in her first-term contribution. Ultimately, this offers more opportunities for the young people looking for housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u53	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the applicant on the way in which the reply was made. I think it is very handsome, I say to Mr Bashir, that no question has been missed. Moreover, the same appreciation applies to the ruler. He too hasn't missed anything of the things that hold him back. I would also like to thank you for the positive opinion on the amendment. I think that the amendment makes the proposal on this part slightly stronger. That could get rid of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u54	Madam President. I would like to thank Mrs Schouten and her advisers for the clear, competent and complete answer. It was well organized and structured. A few weeks ago we said here that D66 thought it was a good initiative. Indeed, as Mrs Schouten herself says, the bill is not the solution to all the problems in the housing market. I too, like Mr Bashir, would have liked to have seen that law before us today, but sometimes it is not so easy. However, it is a good step in the right direction. I believe that this will indeed promote the flow of the rental market and that there will be more flexibility and more tailor-made work. Tonight we are going to talk about the other part of the housing market. My group recommended voting in favour of the legislative proposal and the amendments tabled. Once again, I would like to congratulate Mrs Schouten on her initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u55	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. We are going to listen to Mrs Schouten's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u56	Mr. Chairman. I shall briefly go through the questions and comments made by the various Members. Mr Madlener fears that this will be abused for the status holders. I would like to give him back that I think that young people are being deprived of a chance when this fear, which is probably also unjustified, weighs more heavily. I would ask Mr Madlener to take that into consideration. I would like to thank Mr De Vries for his comments and for considering amendments to improve the legislative proposal. Mr Van der Linde was somewhat critical of my remarks on anti-cracking. An anti-cracking contract can offer a good alternative at times and for some people, but I think it is good for young people who want to live in a particular home for a longer period of time to have a rent protection that goes a little further than the anti-cracking contracts. That's why we made this contract. As for my doubts as to whether the new tenants are being pulled over the line: I only indicated that I am not sure and that I hope that it is. So I don't know if it's a doubt. I only hope that the review in five years' time will show that Mr Van der Linde was right, and also in ten years' time, when it comes to Mr De Vries' amendment. Mr Bashir himself almost answered the question he asked me: why not tackle the problem at its heart? And he says, "Build, build, build." At the same time, he himself notes that there has been a housing shortage since the 1950s. In other words, I do not think it is only the landlord's tax that is not being sufficiently built. In fact, if we have had a housing shortage since the 1950s and we haven't had the landlord's tax since the 1950s, there are other factors that cause too few houses to be built. I stand alongside Mr Bashir in this discussion. We need to look at how we are going to remove these thresholds. Maybe I can make him a suggestion for that. This bill was also drawn up on the initiative of our youth organisation. Matthijs de Snoo, the representative of the youth organization, is here. He's put a lot of work into this bill. Perhaps Mr Bashir could draw up his own bill with representatives of ROOD, in which he will arrange for construction, construction and construction to take place. Then I guess when the time comes, I'll also be standing in place in the Chamber, agreeing to see how we're gonna organize it. It's a suggestion; maybe he can pick it up. I thank Mr Ronnes and Mr Bishop. They said that no questions were missed. Mr Koolmees also noted that. I would like to thank a number of people specifically, because I did not just answer those questions; I had expert guidance from Maik Schumacher and two other officials, French Wiersma and Elise Bijl. I would also like to thank them very much for the supportive work they have done on this bill. Of course I also thank my colleague Frank Visser, who really put hours and days into this. I am proud to be able to bring this bill to a majority in this Chamber, if I taste it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u57	Thank you very much. I'm gonna see if the minister as an advisor wants to speak one last word. Or has he given us all his advice yet? Of course, that could be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u58	Mr. Chairman. Famous last words are always dangerous. They are always in the atmosphere of "nothing comes from the right" and "they don't shoot at this distance." I have not been asked any additional questions. In a few speakers I felt that there was still a hint of doubt about the benefits of the law. I would like to make the following plea, perhaps in abundance. Knowing how difficult it is for young people to find a start-up home, but also knowing how naturally young people find it possible to take a further step after a certain period, as we have all actually done in our living career, and knowing the broad support that this proposal has from organisations involved in youth housing, I would nevertheless like to appeal to the doubters to finally drop the judgment in favour of the law and Mrs Schouten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u59	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-26.u60	No motions have been tabled. The vote on the legislative proposal and the amendments will take place next Tuesday. It seems that this may be good, but of course we will all see that next Tuesday.
