ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u1	I propose that a maximum of two interruptions be made during both the term of the Chamber and the term of the govern ment. I'm gonna try to hold everyone to that, so I can guard time a little bit. In principle, all Members have a five-minute speaking time, with the exception of two smaller groups, and I will try to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is a good time for this debate, because less than a day ago we concluded a historic agreement on ATAD, the European directive against tax avoidance. That agreement is historic, because it breaks with a long and evil European tradition. After all, let us not fool each other: Europe has led a disastrous race to the bottom in the tax on profits for many years. Tax avoidance was mainly a competition between London, Luxembourg, Dublin and Brussels, and even Amsterdam participated. That is the main reason why all kinds of avoidance structures could grow like weeds, so many international companies hardly pay any profit tax anymore. Of course, the ATAD Directive is not perfect, but it is a milestone. For the first time, Europe is making serious efforts to tackle anticompetitive tax structures. This is good for taxpayers, for small businesses and for Europe's credibility as the largest economic bloc in the world. If this had failed, the whole of the OECD's BEPS project would have been put to death. Congratulations to the Minister and Secretary of State for Finance for what has been achieved under the Dutch Presidency. And that's not little. There's gonna be an interest relief limit. It's very important to counter artificial profit erosion. I do have one more question. A deadline of 2024 is mentioned. Is it only for specific countries such as Austria, or does it apply to all countries? There will also be an exit levy and a general anti-abuse clause. They'll help against the lockdown of profits by mailbox companies. There has been a lot to do about the CFC rules. In short, it is a question of raising huge sums in countries where very little tax is levied. These amounts are lent to companies in countries with a high tax rate, where interest can be deducted again. That's how taxes are avoided. If I read it correctly, the CFC rules include both weakening and tightening. Is it true that the CFC rules will apply not only to companies outside Europe but also within Europe? Does this mean, in concrete terms, that a financing company in Cyprus can also be covered by the CFC rules? On the other hand, you seem to be able to escape CFC rules if the subsidiary meets certain substance requirements. Isn't this very vaguely formulated? Doesn't this give you too many escape options? Can the Secretary of State explain how this provision was made? I come to the hybrid mismatches, abuse due to inconsistent tax legislation. It is very important that this is removed within Europe. Then there is the question of how this is going with regard to third countries, read: American multinationals. It was clear in advance that this would not be possible during the Dutch Presidency, but I am glad that this has now landed in the Council conclusions and that this problem will be picked up in October of this year. All in all, therefore, five out of six ambitions have been achieved. The switch override remains. Unfortunately, he was killed. Unlike most parties in this Chamber, we remain of the opinion that it would have been hardly harmful to the Netherlands, but good for developing countries. Now you often see that developing countries are forced by multinationals to apply a zero rate. That incentive would have gone down if that switchover had been there. So that's too bad. Finally, I go into country-by-country reporting. It is very clear that there is broad support for public country-by-country reporting in Europe. In doing so, multinationals must make public where they make profits and how much tax they pay on them. Unfortunately, this duty has not so far been applied to countries outside Europe. The argument is that the American or Japanese multinationals do not have to do that either, and that European companies are put at a disadvantage if they have to. I think that's a weak argument. Europe is the largest economic bloc in the world. If a country like America can impose FATCA on us, it seems to me that Europe can also impose a worldwide publication obligation on all multinationals operating on the European market, whether they come from Japan, from America or from the European Union itself. Does the cabinet want to promote such a global publication obligation in the context of country-by-country reporting? I'm closing up. The ATAD is not perfect, but it is the first of its kind. That tastes like more. We will keep the cabinet to its promise that the Netherlands will become part of the solution instead of part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u3	Does Mr Groot agree with me that the package has in the last instance been drastically undressed? The CFC rules are bound by a passage that makes it possible to meet the criteria with a small office, a desk and one employee in order to be excluded. The interest deduction had already been postponed on a large scale, maximum based, until 2024. All old loans are excluded, without any clause. Switchover's out. Is there anything left of the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u4	There were six ambitions. Of these, only three were included in the OECD BEPS Directive. Five of the six components have achieved results, such as hybrid mismatches, anti-abuse determination, exit levy and interest deduction limitation. You can always ask if the glass is half full or half empty. As far as we are concerned, this is an historic milestone. We come from a time when fiscal competition has been increasingly fierce, but we are now moving in the direction of gradually tackling tax avoidance structures that are true but are steadily tackling them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u5	That is a very optimistic view of the matter. The glass was empty. The question is whether it is half full or if there is now a very small bottom that is actually a large part windowdressing. If you look at the whole thing, doesn't it mean that a company like IKEA, which systematically avoids tax here, will be able to go quietly over the next few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u6	I don't think so. This is the beginning of a process. We're getting country-by-country reporting. A number of common harmful tax structures are being addressed. I do not mention the names of groups of companies, but if there are any other groups in this world that think they can go into the future thinking that they can avoid tax forever, these deceptions will come true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u7	In my contribution I pay a lot of attention to the Panama Papers. Mr Groot does not say anything about that. I'm noticing that. Maybe I'm in the wrong debate; I don't know. Mr Groot talks about ATAD, which we have talked about before. Of course, that's actuality. I would like to know from Mr Groot what the ATAD, which he is so pleased with, is doing for the wealthy Dutchman who creates an SPF in Curaçao through Panama and all kinds of constructions and thus avoids the capital efficiency tax in the Netherlands. What's this gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u8	This debate is about BEPS and tax avoidance, and the ATAD Directive that is an elaboration of it. I've already talked about country-by-country reporting. Of course, this debate can also be about the Panama Papers, but we are still going to talk about this in the form of hearings and possibly a parliamentary questioning. This debate is about tax avoidance, especially by companies. The ATAD Directive is not so much about secluded personal assets. For that we have the entire process of handling the Supervisory Trust Office Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u9	The Panama Papers have, of course, opened up a cesspool of tax avoidance and that is what we are talking about today. The fact that something is now being settled from the OECD, inspired by Europe, I believe, but ATAD is not doing anything about that wealthy or plumber who does not even start an offshore company through a Dutch trust office, but through a trust office in Cyprus towards Panama in the Bahamas. I do not hear Mr Groot making proposals to the Secretary of State to be on top of that either. That leak's still not sealed. It's just going on until today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u10	Mr Van Dijck may assume that private assets also have our full attention, but this debate is about BEPS, about tax avoidance in the sphere of corporate taxation. We are talking about tax avoidance by multinationals and other major international companies. That too is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u11	Following on from Mr Van Dijck's question, I understand that Mr Groot now wants to celebrate the party that the cabinet got round this package during the presidency, but the debate is indeed wider. It is not just about the BEPS proposal and what has happened in Europe, even at the request of Mr Groot himself. I have a more critical question about something that needs to be settled or what needs to be looked at in relation to what the Netherlands is doing. The Netherlands has incredibly many treaties with many countries, including those which may soon be blacklisted from Europe. What does Mr Groot say to this cabinet? Should this cabinet then all maintain these treaties, especially with countries that are blacklisted by Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u12	With tax havens like Bermuda and the Cayman Islands, the Netherlands actually has no tax treaties. If we had it, we would have to cancel it immediately. We have some treaties, but these are information exchange treaties and not conventions with exemptions from dividend taxation or with provisions that the Netherlands will withdraw as jurisdiction. We have no treaties with real tax havens. The Labour Party strongly advocates the creation of such a blacklist. If countries are to be on it, then of course there can be no tax treaty with such countries. It will then also have to be subject to sanctions. For example, on financial flows to such countries, you could levy a withholding tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u13	It is true that these are not just tax treaties, but also information exchange treaties. Many of these countries have barely functioning tax administrations. We may have a fine treaty on the exchange of information, but that information is hardly available. With a treaty, you make a gesture to other countries: look, we can work together. Does Mr Groot think that, for example, we should maintain the information exchange agreement with the Cayman Islands when the country is on such a blacklist?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u14	You certainly shouldn't be signing a tax treaty with the Caymans, I think. You can cancel an information exchange agreement, but you won't have any information at all. To be honest, that doesn't seem very productive to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u15	You came to the end of your speech? You will have another question from Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u16	First of all, we really do have treaties with tax havens. We've been trying to stop a few here. Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, for one thing. But my question is about something else. Mr Groot would like to celebrate here for everything that has already been achieved, but Mr Grashoff was right to say that there is a lot of undressing. What do we have, anyway? Where do we stand now, according to Mr Groot? Does he say: this is it, or does he say: this is just a very brief beginning and now we really need to get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u17	As far as I'm concerned, it's the last. We are at the beginning of a very long road that we still have to go. A number of follow-up paths have already been set out, e.g. country-by-country reporting and hybrid mismatches with third countries, but there are a number of other OECD action points that should also be developed rapidly in guidelines for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u18	The country-by-country reporting is not finished yet and is undressed again. It is said again: no, we do not want it to apply to all countries, but only to countries outside Europe, only to tax havens. I believe that Mr Groot agrees that it should apply to all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u20	Is he gonna stand for that, too? Or does he say, if it's a watered down contract later: nice, we've brought in something again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u21	I don't see the process of country-by-country reporting as a process of dilution. We started with the fact that information via master files was only exchanged between tax administrations. Political pressure has been exerted from the SP, but also from the PvdA and from the European political groups, to make it fully public. So the movement is going the other way. And yes, we will stand for the country-by-country to become fully public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u22	Mr. Chairman. Tax avoidance by large companies is widespread and large-scale. Tax avoidance by wealthy individuals is widespread and widespread. And passerby we are working to hollow out our society, which is based on the principle that you maintain your collective facilities with each other by means of taxation. It can't stay that way. It cannot remain that we allow this to happen, that we allow companies, multinationals, not to pay taxes or very little, and ordinary citizens do. A large part of the Dutch, perhaps almost everyone in the Netherlands who simply pays their taxes, is annoyed by that. It was therefore extremely pleasant to hear that, at OECD level and then at European level, we were going to work on a genuine package to get at least a good deal of work done in this area. It would have been so nice if it had also become a big picket pole. In the Netherlands we have an industry consisting of 12,000 to 20,000 letterbox companies, through which about 4,000 billion goes. It is virtually a unique selling point for the Dutch locational climate that one also gets extra help here to avoid the tax here or here, or elsewhere. These letterbox companies still exist and half a trust sector is attached to them. What is now, after last night, when we take stock, is thin, very thin. You could say it's a first step. I am by nature an optimistic person, so let's hope that after this first step there will be a next step, but it's not to write about home. In spite of the motion that we tabled on this subject and which was adopted by this Chamber, which called on the government to make every effort to ensure that the proposals were not further undressed, we have to note that there have been serious undressing practices in the last phase. You could say that the whole proposal went through the European car wash three times with a lot of bleach. What's left is pretty pale. The CFC rules have been drastically weakened. We have had a discussion with this Secretary of State earlier in which we said that it had to be about something, but the substance requirements are now thoroughly undressed. If I read the actual document correctly, one office with one employee and one computer is enough to meet the conditions for exemption from taxation. That is, in fact, enough economic activity. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? If not, can he explain to me how I should interpret the text I read in the European document?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u23	Mr Grashoff says something which is contrary to what I said. He says that virtually nothing has been achieved. I expected that reaction. She's also in line with what Tax Justice released today. Moreover, I appreciate that organisation very much, because it has been doing a lot of things, but does Mr Grashoff not agree with me that the Tax Justice agenda of a few years ago has now been achieved to a large extent? In the field of country-by-country reporting, hybrid mismatches and all sorts of things that Tax Justice raised a few years ago, action is now being taken. Does Mr Grashoff not agree with me that much has been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u24	I would very much like to be able to agree with Mr Groot, but if I just look at what has finally been left under the line of the ATAP (Anti Tax Avoidance Package), then I can only become quite cynical about this. We managed to get it on the agenda, but the parties who didn't benefit very much from it and didn't feel like it, managed to reduce it so far that it became a paper tiger. That's a shame. The question is what the ultimate effect of this is. My prediction is that companies like IKEA and Starbucks are just doing their divine thing. I come to a number of examples. I have just mentioned the CFC rules, but I also refer to the existing loans. We have had a wide-ranging discussion with this Secretary of State, who said that, of course, existing loans could not remain infinity. What's in the document? Existing loans from before 17 June remain excluded forever, unless something really changes. Of course, you don't do that anymore, because then your loan will no longer be covered by that exception. So this has also become a wonderful trade tool. Can the Secretary of State at least guarantee me that trading existing loans also means changing the status of the loan? I don't think so. I think that a smart lawyer can find exactly the right loopholes to ensure that old loans also become new loans via a detour. Then that part is also undressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u25	I share Mr Grashoff's concern about that last point. Of course, you always want further steps to be taken, and I think there is still a lot to be done, but what does Mr Grashoff actually say? Does he like the fact that a step has been taken, but is he very unhappy that it is not two steps, or does he think that a little bit has come into the glass and that we should not accept this package at all? Does he support the package and the arrangements or does he think they're so skinny that he doesn't like them? That has been somewhat unclear to me so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u26	I would have become crystal clear about this in the course of my speech, but I would also like to do so in response to Mr Van Weyenberg's interruption. Yes, we support this package because we also want to take the smallest step. Of course! But I hope that Mr Van Weyenberg agrees with me that it is a bit of a bloody shame that you are not capable of doing more of this throughout the construction of European cooperation. The exception to the exception to the clause has been stacked on the basis of a clause in order to make the least use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u27	I would suggest to Mr Grashoff that we also celebrate the occasion once in a while. We took steps in the OECD which were unthinkable ten years ago. We now have an agreement that was unthinkable in Europe two years ago. I would like to continue with Mr Grashoff to make it much better, but come on, GroenLinks, a little optimism!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u28	I wish I could agree with Mr Van Weyenberg on this optimism. I have had this optimism for quite a long time in this process. However, my conclusion is that there has been such dilution in all the essential points that I seriously wonder whether the agreement will have any effect on the extent of tax avoidance by large companies in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u29	Mr Van Weyenberg, you are now using your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u30	That's fine. In his last sentence, Mr Grashoff actually says that the agreement does nothing at all. I don't understand. At first he said he was going to support the agreement, but just said he was doubting whether it mattered. In that case, Mr Grashoff must be against and simply say that he thinks the agreement is watered down so that he does not like it. That will not be the position of my party again, I wish Mr Grashoff a little more optimism, but he cannot first say that he fully supports the agreement, as he said in reply to my question, to say twenty seconds later that he is afraid that it will do nothing at all. I am more optimistic on this point. It would be nice if Mr Grashoff could clarify it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u31	I think I already gave a very clear answer. No, we are extremely cynical of what has been achieved so far. Yes, we will support the agreement. That's it, Mr van Weyenberg. That's it. I am also a realistic politician. I am not going to put something in the garbage now, even if it is very little, because it can also be a starting point for perhaps moving forward. The point of this debate could be that Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Groot, Mr Merkies and I are going to pull it together, so that it really is going to propose something. We need to keep the government and the Secretary of State on top of that. If we have to conclude in one or two years from study X that the agreement has not helped much, we must remind the Secretary of State of his ambition and also remind ourselves of our own ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u32	I'd love to take that glove. This agreement is certainly not the end of the bargain, but I note that we have achieved things. Mr Groot called it historic. I am a little more cautious with such words, but we have achieved things. I'm happy about that. I would also like to give Mr Grashoff a little of that joy. Ten years ago, I said, two years ago, I had not thought possible that we could take action against tax avoidance in this way. As far as I am concerned, Mr Grashoff may put that feather on his hat, but it is up to him whether he wants it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u33	I understand he's very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u34	I am very pleased with it and I also think Mr Van Weyenberg is very sympathetic that he also gives me some of the result of the pressure we have put in the Chamber to get to this point. I can only say, however, that one can call that scepticism, or perhaps realism, which, unfortunately, is not going to bring about much progress now. We have to move on. This is indeed not the end of the process. Luckily not, because we're gonna do a lot of things. The Chamber will also hold hearings and, as far as we are concerned, a parliamentary questioning. We will make proposals and we will continue to do so. With regard to GroenLinks, the abuse of the participation exemption will in any case have to be tackled much harder. This means, for example, that in any case the income of foreign subsidiaries is charged to at least the Dutch Vpb level. This recommendation is also reflected in the SOMO report commissioned by the FNV. That would provide a clear and clear rule. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider them at least for the Netherlands? It must also end with the Netherlands as a stromand for money-launderers and tax evaders. Closer supervision of the trust sector is needed. We do not go far enough with the legislative proposal on this point that has been put forward for consultation. The sector cannot control itself, as has been shown time and time again, and must be kept on a tight leash. As far as we are concerned, there will be a fine after one infringement and the licence will be withdrawn after two infringements. Is the Secretary of State willing to get into that hard? In the Netherlands we do not want mailbox companies. We don't need it. GroenLinks' proposal is simply to demand a clear substance for every company in the Netherlands, including the letterbox companies. We can demand, for example, that 10% of turnover in the Netherlands should be in labour costs. Wage costs for actual employees who work here and make something, something physical, an intellectual product or whatever. If 10% of the turnover in the Netherlands is spent on human costs, we could speak of a real company and not a letterbox company. Is the Secretary of State prepared to study this idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u35	I'm going to let these words get through to me. If a company has to make 10% of its turnover on labour costs, then so to speak, you should also close supermarkets or commercial companies buying and selling machines. What exactly does Mr Grashoff mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u36	That's very nice. Let us fight this battle with each other and look very closely at those relationships in a real enterprise. If Mr Groot can show that 10% is on the big side but 8% is good, then I want to go along with him. My second question is whether Mr Groot is willing to think with me about a serious substance requirement for mailboxes, so that you can no longer have a firm in the Netherlands with an empty office, an unconnected computer and an empty office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u37	Of course I'd like to think along with that. I would just point out to Mr Grashoff that there are even companies that are solid companies, ordinary commercial companies that have only 1% of turnover in labour costs. I can't do anything with that criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u38	I wonder if Mr Groot can give us clear and concrete examples with name and name. Then I'd like to talk to him about what could be real. On the basis of our analysis, however, this 10% is not so crazy, not even for commercial companies based in the Netherlands, which have a serious office with buyers and sellers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u39	Mr. Chairman. The profits of Dutch business in 2015 are already 22 billion higher than before the crisis, but the share of taxes that the companies contribute is getting smaller and smaller. In 2008, almost 9% of total tax revenue was still from profit tax and now it is only 5.4%. What does the Secretary of State think of us dangling with that percentage in Europe? In a study commissioned by FNV, it is calculated that the Dutch government misses 1.5 billion in revenue annually. I notice that when such reports come out, the Secretary of State is often there when the chickens are there to explain why it is wrong. Isn't that very easy? Then why don't you do the investigation yourself? Isn't there always an estimate of the lost income? We have often talked about European measures to combat tax avoidance here recently. Each time they were watered down a little bit. The switch over clause has been completely deleted, the CFC scheme has been completely stripped off and now it appears that the agreements on interest relief have been further weakened. Moreover, the limitation of the interest deduction does not apply until 2024. So that means another eight years off with profits. Is it true that this is going to apply to all countries? Does the deduction limit apply from that point on to all loans, including loans contracted in the coming years? In addition to this commitment to Belgium, have any commitments been made to other countries? There is an agreement, but everything has been said. If this is it now, I seriously wonder how seriously this problem is being taken. Despite large scandals that have come out, such as LuxLeaks and the Panama Papers, this is the very poor result. Our Minister and Secretary of State for Finance must have thought: something is better than nothing. If that becomes something more and more nothing, then of course the question is what you actually have in your hands. Does the Secretary of State agree that this can only be the beginning of the approach to tax avoidance and that there are still a lot of agreements to be made on the approach to tax avoidance, for example on country-by-country reporting? A day after the previous debate on tax avoidance, we got the sheet on public country-by-country reporting. On the basis of its impact assessment, the European Commission sees many benefits. The cabinet also writes in the cabinet response that public reporting on tax payments can contribute to countering aggressive tax planning. I think that's a win. But then you must also conclude that transparency is a basic condition and that it must always apply. As the reporting obligations only apply to companies with a turnover of more than 750 million, we will soon know how much tax they pay in each country of only 5% of all companies. Why wouldn't 95% of all companies want to know? Do these companies never artificially shift profits? There is also an arrested Merkies motion asking for public country-by-country reporting to apply to all countries, not only to tax havens outside Europe. I promised to hold this motion until after the discussion we are having here today. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. If you ask whether this should apply to countries outside the EU, let it depend on whether such a country is blacklisted, do you pretend that being transparent is a punishment? You then act as if the obligation to be transparent is a sanction for countries that do not cooperate. Times have really changed. If we are to take a step forward in tackling tax avoidance, transparency is, in all cases, a prerequisite. We always want to know how much tax a multinational pays in each country. Does the Secretary of State not want to know how much these companies pay in developing countries, for example? That seems extremely interesting to me. I have another question about the black list of tax havens. The Merkies/Van Weyenberg motion was recently adopted. It calls on the government to urge the European Commission to adopt the blacklist criteria and sanctions in the shortest possible time, but at least this year. How's that going? Has the Secretary of State done this by now? What was the European Commission's response? Recently, we read that the tipster, the source of the Panama Papers, was arrested and imprisoned for a short time. As far as the SP Group is concerned, these whistleblowers are indispensable in the fight against tax evasion. I ask the Secretary of State if he agrees and, if so, if he is prepared to discuss with his European colleagues the legal treatment of these valuable tipsters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u40	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Pieter Ommzigt tonight, who normally speaks on this subject. That's why I'll give you some kind of general introduction first. In a rule of law, we pay taxes to the government as a contribution to the collective provision. However, this is not only a legal obligation. The CDA also sees this payment of tax as a moral obligation. Every citizen in the Netherlands pays taxes in the country in which he lives and where he uses the facilities. Each company pays taxes in the country where the profits are made, in the ratio in which the profits are attributable to the country. The provisions in that country enable the company to make a profit. This is a moral duty that applies equally to every citizen and every entrepreneur. Companies that avoid tax compete unfairly with honest entrepreneurs who pay their taxes neatly. In a fair economy, the coffee shop on the corner pays relatively as much tax on profits as the establishment of a large multinational coffee giant. In a fair economy, the furniture maker from my village pays relatively as much tax on profits as a branch of a large multinational furniture discount. The same applies to citizens who evade tax, because they benefit from the free provision paid by all hard-working and tax-paying Dutch people. Even if it would be legally on the border but still only just, there is no moral justification to evade tax, as opposed to taxpayers who pay less tax because they use statutory schemes, such as mortgage interest deduction, the distribution of income items between partners or the exemption for green investments. After this, I will deal first with the Panama Papers, i.e. the sequestration of assets by private individuals. Then I'll go into corporate tax avoidance. The Panama Papers have given a first look at the scale of tax evasion. Many international leaders have been mentioned: a number of rich Dutch people, but also owners of a Dutch company. Can the Secretary of State give an update on what happened to the information from the Panama Papers after the release of the database? Have people been examined yet? Have any attacks and fines been imposed yet? Have any prosecutions been initiated yet? The Panama Papers have also provided an image of the structures used to evade tax. The Tax Administration expected to gain more insight into the ways in which tax fraud takes place through the Panama Papers. What insights has the Tax Administration's investigation led to? Does the Tax Administration have sufficient legal resources, resources from justice such as fraus legis, to deal with tax evasion or even fraud in cases where this is the case? We have discussed tax avoidance by companies in the Chamber many times. Last weekend, the first major step towards resolving this tax avoidance was taken. It is right to congratulate the Cabinet, the Minister and the Secretary of State on the way in which that agreement has been reached. There is now an anti-tax avoidance agreement. That is quite special, because taxes are an individual competence of the Member States, which were able to veto all 28 of them. Belgium has now agreed to the reduction of interest rate deductions. Other countries have also withdrawn their objections. The Ecofin report does not yet make it clear which countries these were. Will the Secretary of State be able to comment on that? What is the outcome of this agreement with the parliaments of the Member States, as expected by the Secretary of State? Are all reserved and negative assessments of tests now off the track? For example, the interest deduction limit of up to 30% of profits can now be replaced by other interest deduction restrictions. Is that what the government is going to do or is it going to implement the deduction limit from the directive? Finally, there is also a directive which obliges multinationals to disclose in which country they pay how much income tax. I see in the sheet a positive basic position, but also a number of critical comments from the cabinet. I understand that. The goal is to stop tax avoidance. For that, the IRS needs all the information. Public disclosure does not help in itself, but could have some preventive effect. Can the Secretary of State comment on the effect of public disclosure? Is the current proposal for a directive also taking into account the legal arrangements that reduce the amount of income tax payable, such as loss, set-off or the innovation box? If not, what does the information on the income tax paid say? If so, is there a risk that information sensitive to competition will have to be disclosed? So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u41	This leads to an interruption of Mr Van Dijck, his second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u42	How does the CDA deal with the Dutch tax sovereignty? This afternoon, we saw that the CDA voted against a motion on Member States' maximum freedom of policy and tariff when it comes to VAT. Now there are also noises, for example from the FNV today, that there should be a minimum rate for all Member States of 25%. Does the CDA agree with me that the Netherlands should still be able to deal with its own tariffs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u43	You must place it in the overall context of today's debate. If we want to combat tax avoidance, we will not avoid reaching an agreement on this at international level and finding solutions to it. We're not on an island. Of course, we are dealing in principle with our own tax rules, but I would point out that we cannot do so without occasionally looking outwards. It certainly doesn't work if the Netherlands has to fight tax avoidance on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u44	Surely Mr Ronnes agrees with me that a multinational that now wants to register its mother is going to opt for Ireland? There it is 12.5%. The choice is made quickly if the rates are different. If the CDA votes today against the motion that calls for maximum policy and tariff freedom for the Member States, then I wonder whether the CDA also wants a European VAT rate and in the future of the Vpb?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u45	We do not want to go to a European rate, but we are trying to work together with all the other countries to regulate the tax avoidance we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u46	Mr. Chairman. Following on from Mr Ronnes, I also ask the question: what is paying taxes? Is it an annoying payment to an annoying government, as some will experience? Or is it also an investment in a country and in the people of that country? According to CU, paying taxes is also a moral act for citizens and for businesses. The people who live in a country and the companies that are based in a country benefit from the facilities that we all bring in. That is why citizens and businesses should also be able to count on everyone to pay their fair share of taxes. Constructions aimed at shifting profits in order to minimise tax ultimately undermine the support for taxation. That is why it is important to ensure that profits from companies are taxed where they are made and that multinationals also pay their fair share. The IMF's head of tax policy recently asked in an interview whether you could blame companies for avoiding tax. His answer was: if the law makes it possible, then it must be possible. My answer is that you can blame them. Because no matter how much we do to close the gaps with legislation, there is always a mouse hole open. Smart fiscalists will always find opportunities to further reduce their customers' tax contributions in this way. We must therefore dare to speak to each other about the moral unwelcomeness of these constructions. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he thinks it is desirable for companies to avoid tax purely because it is allowed under the letter of the law. Or does he think that these companies should also take their social responsibility and not get involved in these constructions? A number of major tax avoidance cases have been identified in recent years. In 2014, we had LuxLeaks, revealing that a large number of companies benefited from agreements with the Luxembourg tax authorities, thus paying almost no tax. In the Netherlands, we had the Starbucks deal, on which the European Commission considered it unacceptable, because Starbucks was favoured over other companies. The procedure on this last case is still ongoing. Can the Secretary of State state state what the state of play is? A few months ago, we were shocked by the Panama Papers, which showed that one consultancy firm was involved in the creation of more than 200,000 companies in tax havens. This was not only about tax avoidance, but also about money laundering and evasion, it seems. Currently, the Tax Office is investigating these Panama Papers. There may be another parliamentary interrogation. Can the Secretary of State say whether there is any progress in the file at the Tax Office and whether there is anything more to report on it? These scandals have rightly led to a great deal of commotion. They create an image of the great multinational and the wealthy private who run away without any moral awareness for their responsibility. However, the Netherlands itself is always in the wrong line, for example with countries such as Belgium, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. I keep saying that's not something to be proud of. How can you lead the way in the fight against tax avoidance and at the same time take pride in standing in the same row as these countries? That's a rhetorical question, but perhaps the Secretary of State will answer him as well. The Panama Papers seem to be about exotic tax havens, far away. But treaty country The Netherlands has tax treaties with a large number of these havens. I have just looked it up, Mr Groot: with Panama we have not only an information exchange agreement, but also a double tax agreement. We have treaties with countries that we know their tax authorities have much more information than our own tax authorities. So we know very little about what companies do there. Is it sustainable to maintain these conventions, including the fiscal components in them, with these blacklist countries unchanged? How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Isn't there anything positive to report? Fortunately, it is, because yesterday a political agreement was reached on a European directive to tackle the tax arrangements of multinationals. This is a first step, as the Minister of Finance rightly said. More is absolutely needed, especially now that many concessions have been made and the introduction has been postponed by two years. It is now mainly about rapid and ambitious implementation. In the area of transparency, public accountability by companies will enable us to take a good next step, but companies will also have to report on their tax contributions in individual countries outside the EU. Here it is still lacking in the proposal on public country-by-country reporting. Developing countries are the victims of this. Will the Secretary of State be committed to this? I'm gonna finish up and I'm gonna be on my last point. I believe that it is a task of the government to encourage moral action by companies, even when it comes to paying taxes. The agreements that the government intends to conclude with the business community on international corporate social responsibility offer an opportunity for this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with his colleagues in Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and Economic Affairs on how the fight against tax avoidance can get a place in these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u47	Mr. Chairman. There are many points to be raised today in this debate on tackling tax avoidance. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, but certainly also the Minister of Finance, on the political agreement reached. A lot of work has been done there. There has also been a constant demand throughout the Chamber for momentum. The success of the Dutch Presidency is simply a very good achievement. Of course paper is patient and chords often look beautiful, but the agreement will have to prove itself in practice. My group also has a number of questions. With regard to the CFC, the Controlled Foreign Companies, there is an additional derogation that it does not have to be applied if the CFC carries out a substantial economic activity. How is that framed? What guarantees are there that this is not explained so widely in practice that there is little left? I think this is workable, but how is it secured? As far as the reduction of interest rates is concerned, I agree with questions about the transition. Because, yeah, it looks like you're going to be able to apply the national regime for another seven and a half years. In particular, I have the question of when the Netherlands is going to transpose this part of the directive itself into national law, because that is, of course, very important. Mr Merkies already asked questions about the grandfathering, in particular: you now get a very lively market with still favorable old loans. I read it in such a way that it is not, but I would like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State. In a motion for a resolution, the Chamber asked the government to act specifically against hybrid mismatches and to obtain support in the European Union to discuss with the US these mismatches that contribute to the low level of taxation paid by multinationals. What's been done with that so far? I'm curious about that. My second point concerns competition on tariffs. If other instruments are rightly restricted and harmonised, you will also have more pressure on the Vpb tariff itself. That is the point of competition. As you can see, Ireland is at 12.5% and the UK has fallen from 30% to 20% since 2008 and is now considering a further decrease to 17%. Last week, with the support of D66, the Chamber adopted a motion calling on the cabinet to prevent a so-called 'race to the bottom'. How is the Secretary of State going to supplement this? How does he look at a European minimum rate for the Vpb? How does he look at a bottom, separated from the number and the exact height? We have something like that for VAT. How does he look at doing that at the Vpb? My third point concerns disclosure of income tax. Mr Groot raised that point earlier. I've found out that we've got pretty much the same input. Of course, it is good news when multinationals are going to report on the tax they pay in Europe, but I think we should go further. Let all these multinationals report on, for example, the amount of tax they pay in developing countries. In my view, Mrs Schouten was right to say that legislation is not enough. In addition to morality, the strength of consumers can play a very important role in this. It helps when consumers think: I'm not going to buy products from a company that operates in developing countries and has all forced zero rates there. I therefore agree with Mr Groot's questions. In my view, we really need to ensure greater transparency. More transparency on the tax paid within Europe and outside Europe will also make this clear to consumers and increase pressure from the organisations that study and publish this data. How's this going? I'll be back on the blacklist of tax havens. Mr Merkies mentioned the joint motion on this subject earlier. Such a list of tax havens will, of course, be subject to sanctions, otherwise it will only be paper. Is it realistic that the Member States are really going to get out of this? When is the time when the Secretary of State says: then the European Commission should make such a list, because the countries are not coming out and it should not be a prayer without end? I have three short points to make. A task has been booked on the revenue from tax avoidance. That's 200 million in 2017 and structurally 43 million. How is it now being completed, also in the light of this week's agreement, in which I see, for example, that the interest deduction does not start until later? Is there a financial gap now? I am still curious about the calculation requested in a motion to show what the tax avoidance approach is going to give the Treasury at all. The business of letterbox companies and the trust sector is detrimental to international reputation. A few weeks ago I read another flaming speech from the Executive Board of the Dutch Bank. It indicated that there are still a lot of failings in the trust sector. There is now a legislative proposal in consultation, but it is extremely clear for my group. We say: just make public what is being maintained now. I will come back to that in second place. Finally, I come to the Panama Papers. Like Mr Ronnes, I would like to know what has already started in the area of detection and enforcement. Have any actions been launched, along with the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office? Can the Secretary of State indeed, in writing but also very briefly today, comment on the interview with Mr Van Koningsveld, which shows that those who assist in fraud often go free? I, too, have read that with great care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u48	Mr. Chairman. Many people are angry about the fact that companies and individuals are avoiding or avoiding tax. I think we should be honest: no one really likes paying taxes. When you hear that other people pay less tax through tricks, you feel like you're paying too much. For this reason, the VVD believes that tax evasion, tax fraud, money laundering and also terrorist financing should be tackled hard. Are there sufficient instruments to deal with this type of practice? What else would that take? A number of colleagues have already referred to the article in De Telegraaf last Saturday in which it was said that companies that help Dutch criminals to launder criminal money through tax havens often get away with it. It is, of course, fine that the judiciary should take away illegally acquired assets, but it cannot be the case that those who knowingly help in illegal activities or facilitate them can get away with them without punishment. In this respect, there are sufficient possibilities in the law to deal with and punish this group as well. What possibilities are those? Which ones are missing? Why doesn't the D.A. handle these parties? As far as the VVD is concerned, it cannot be the case that white-collar criminals simply get away with a fine or no punishment at all and avoid jail time. Are tax planning and tax constructions always bad? No, because a lot of individuals and companies do that. For example, individuals do so by shifting the mortgage interest deduction to their tax return as tax partners or by switching to shares when they have almost reached the limit for the exemption for savings. Companies also do so, using differences in national tax systems. However, income, wealth or profit should not be hidden from the Tax Administration. It can't be that you don't pay taxes anywhere or that you only pay taxes somewhere where you don't have real activities. The approach to abuse is being pursued in the OECD and in the European context, but that approach must not be a shot shotgun to hit one company that is abusing it, but at the same time many other companies with real activities and jobs. Tackling abuse and tax avoidance can only take place through international measures, namely in the OECD and G20 context and then translated into hard European laws and not into non-binding agreements. Otherwise, we'll be the best little boy in the class again and other countries won't do anything. Europe is not an island. What is the state of implementation of the OECD and BEPS measures in other countries, for example the United States? What are these countries doing effectively? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to this morning's report in Het Financieele Dagblad, in which experts indicate that the new agreement in Europe on tax rules, ATAD, leads to chaos. I'm here to talk about ATAD himself. The VVD welcomes the fact that the switchover clause was finally removed from the proposal, but still has questions about a few measures, including the anti-abuse measures. Can the Secretary of State clarify exactly what is meant by this, also on the basis of a number of examples? A number of colleagues have already mentioned the CFC measure. It is not entirely clear how this measure differs from what the Netherlands has already included in the laws and regulations and how it can indirectly affect the participation exemption. As far as the VVD is concerned, there will be no unilateral European and Dutch measures. The Netherlands should not be crazy Henkie and should look explicitly at its own investment climate. Otherwise it will cost jobs and left-wing parties crocodile tears again if a company with a lot of jobs leaves. I go into the fiscal investment environment; everyone expected the VVD to bring that up. Dutch companies must be competitive. It creates jobs. That is why the VVD has previously tabled a motion to keep the fiscal investment climate in the Netherlands attractive. The VVD is therefore looking forward to the implementation of that motion. Could the Secretary of State give us a hint of the veil? Tackling tax evasion and abuse through tax avoidance should not result in a common tax burden burden on business. Income should be returned to business in the case of the VVD, e.g. in the form of a lower corporate tax rate. This could include a reduction in interest relief. The VVD is in favour of a lower Vpb rate anyway, because that is also good for the Dutch investment climate and for Dutch companies, thus creating more jobs. Ultimately, it is also about the competitiveness of our companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u49	I notice that the VVD systematically opposes all proposals, but indeed all proposals, in terms of tackling tax avoidance. I can imagine that sometimes there is a proposal for which she is for. This seems to me to be the case, for example, with the proposal on transparency through country-by-country reporting, so that we know from companies what they are paying in which country. The VVD has always voted against it. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u50	I think a distinction should be made between public country-by-country reporting and the ordinary country-by-country reporting. In my opinion, we have been in favour of the ordinary country-by-country reporting, with exchange between tax administrations. Among other things, Mr Ronnes has already said a number of things about the public country-by-country reporting. There is still a lot of uncertainty about data protection at this point. Here too, the reasoning is: let's start with it; then the rest of the world will follow. You know that we are never in favour of this. We are not very much in favour of this. If you're gonna take action, you're gonna have to take it internationally. I have just asked about the OECD/BEPS proposals. We do not yet have the idea that other countries outside Europe are running very fast. As far as we are concerned, let us start with the other measures in the context of the ordinary country-by-country reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u51	The VVD has also always voted against proposals for non-public country-by-country reporting, but if the VVD is in favour of that now, at least that is already a gain. But why doesn't the VVD want a public country-by-country reporting? The VVD says that the Netherlands should not be the only country to do this, but this is precisely the opportunity to agree on this at European level. Of course we want it even wider, but you cannot say: we want it worldwide; if one country does not participate, we do not. Mrs De Vries also knows that this will never happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u52	I am asked: why not? I wonder why. For what problem is this a solution? There's just country-by-country reporting and there's got to be exchange between tax authorities. What does this add to the solution to the problem that needs to be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u53	Mr Merkies, we would do the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u54	Yes, but Mrs De Vries asks me what this adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u55	Yes, but you don't have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u56	Then she shouldn't ask that question. We all want to understand where the big companies are losing their profits. I think that Mrs De Vries should also want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u57	Mr. Grashoff, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u58	I have just heard the VVD Group say that it does not really want unilateral national measures. I also thought I heard that she did not want one-sided European measures. Does this actually mean that the VVD is against this whole package?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u59	I believe that we have already indicated that we were critical of the heads of the OECD and BEPS measures. This is particularly true of the switchover clause. I'm glad she got out. We already had the other two measures in Dutch legislation. We have indicated in this package that we believe that there should be a refund of any revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u60	The whole European ATAD is a one-sided European measure, because the OECD package is not binding at all. So now the VVD is just against it. Then give it to me honestly! Then we know in any case that the VVD wants to extradite us to the arbitrariness of companies to pay taxes at all and that the VVD believes that the tax on income should go down. The VVD therefore seems to consider that we do not need collective provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u61	This reaction by GroenLinks surprises me. That amazement I felt during the contribution of GroenLinks. No one is concerned about the consequences of such measures, about the investment climate of the Netherlands, about Dutch companies and about the jobs of people working in these companies. You just have to take that into account. We're not an island. I don't want us to be either. I therefore believe that this should be taken into account in the measures you are taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u62	Mr. Chairman. Tax evasion must be tackled vigorously. After all, they break the law. Today, however, we are primarily talking about tax avoidance. In other words, we are talking about the search for the lowest taxes within the framework of the law. This is a fairly understandable search both for companies and for individuals. After all, everyone strives for the lowest burden. In the so-called Panama Papers, we saw not only the multinationals frequently quoted by the left, but also many ordinary SMEs, the middle class. And besides that, we even saw a Dutch development aid club, Solidaridad. Strikingly enough we can hardly hear on the left about that last club. The fact that many SMEs, the engine of our economy, are also legally trying to reduce the burden, says nothing about the so-called corruption or the malicious nature of these companies, but something about the huge taxes that are loved by the left in the Netherlands, among others. Why does a company with an income of just over €200,000 actually have to pay a quarter of its income to corporation tax? Tax evasion is criminal and needs to be addressed. Tax avoidance is legal and, in the eyes of some, may not be neat, but we can also say that of the insatiable tax hunger of the government. As long as there is no global policy, despite the OECD agreements and the EU agreement, the Netherlands will not have to price itself out of the market. Tax competition is fine. Further degradation of our sovereignty by convergence of the tax system within the EU, because that is what is happening, is absolutely not. According to the Foundation for Economic Research, these letterbox companies provide 13,000 jobs and 3 billion euros for our country. As far as our group is concerned, these jobs, these billions and our sovereignty are far more important than doubtful growth, the urge to impose taxation and a tie-up at EU level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u63	Mr. Chairman. Tax planning, tax optimisation, tax avoidance: they're all names for something that's okay, but actually not right. Why should a furniture maker from the middle of the country have four companies on Samoa, founded by an agent from Panama, at the request of an intermediary from Hong Kong? That business is suspicious, not to say it stinks. The Panama Papers opened the cesspool. In the Panama Papers there are 200,000 companies and of the Netherlands no less than 600 names. But that's the tip of the iceberg. In the British Virgin Islands alone, 50,000 offshore companies are set up every year, with only one goal: fiscal planning. What's next? The Bahamas Papers? The Cayman Papers? The Jersey Papers? The Netherlands has endured with all these tax havens. Why? Why can information be exchanged, but only on request? It hardly happens, that's how we read. In 2014, the Netherlands made 29 requests. 29 times! And never to the Bahamas, while the Bahamas appear no less than 30 times in the Panama Papers. I ask the Secretary of State, why not? Without a request no information and without information no request. That's the stalemate. What good are all these treaties? What's the point? Why is the data not automatically exchanged? And is that settled in the treaty? Once you make a request, the tax authorities of that tax have no information at their disposal. If you do not levy a profit tax, you do not know how much profit is being made and to whom that profit is being allocated. And what you don't have, you can't give. So I ask again: what is the point of these treaties? There are also no requirements for a UBO register or a trade register. The trade register in these countries also leaves a lot to be desired. The Netherlands is chasing the facts. It is only when something is leaked that action is taken. Then they wake up. We saw that at offshore leaks, at LuxLeaks, at SwissLeaks and now at Panama Leaks, but the problem is not addressed at the root. If the baker on the corner doesn't have a dime of turnover, the world is too small and follows one after the other. But if someone, for example a plumber, locks tons off to the Bahamas, he doesn't hear anything. Shouldn't the alarm bells ring at the IRS? It's legal as long as this plumber gives up his possessions in the report, but you can't check what you don't know. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that this information is known to the tax authorities? Everyone has to pay their fair share of taxes. Those who try to channel money to avoid tax should be tackled and countries that facilitate this should be blacklisted. You shouldn't want a treaty with that. Which countries are now blacklisted? Or is the Secretary of State going to be waiting for Europe? I hope not. The performance of nominee shareholders also contributes to this diving behaviour. Why shouldn't we just ban these fake shareholders? Why does ABN AMRO still facilitate this, while Rabo and ING no longer do so? EUR 200 billion is managed by ABN AMRO as a nominee shareholder. Can we not hold the nominee shareholder liable for fraudulent actions by the actual owner? He'll change his mind twice. And how can we prevent the big fish from getting out of the dance? Mr Groot already referred to the quote of former FIOD Detective Jan van Koningsveld: "In my 25 years as a detective, I haven't encountered one criminal who was visible as a shareholder. They look out and move someone else forward." For example ABN AMRO. I come to the OECD and BEPS. The PVV supports the OECD's initiative to develop a global approach to countering tax avoidance. Tax avoidance, tax constructions and money-sliding are putting tax morals on edge. This must be tackled internationally and not unilaterally. The PVV does want to keep an eye on our locational environment and it does not want to interfere with our fiscal sovereignty, our membership exemption and our treaty network. A level playing field is therefore internationally crucial. The PVV therefore hopes that the OECD will work out its recommendations in concrete actions and standards, so that each country and every company knows what it is up to, and that tax will now be paid where the value is created. I come to my last question to the Secretary of State. What about Action Line 15, the implementation of the OECD Action Lines? An ad hoc BEPS working group appears to be working on a multilateral treaty. How's that going? And why is Europe not waiting for this working group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u64	I see that this will lead to an interruption by Mr Grashoff, but I will not allow it, because we have agreed that there will be a maximum of two interruptions in two, and Mr Grashoff has already had his turn twice. We came here at the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u65	Even if we take into account that the answer given by the Secretary of State is such that there is no need for any interruption, I would suggest that there should be a maximum of three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u66	Mr. Chairman. Somewhere in the first half of 2015, the Dutch cabinet decided to take an active stance against tax avoidance. I sent two more letters on that at the time. At that time the OECD was still developing and the Netherlands was enthusiastic about the idea that it could tackle tax avoidance, without being the only one in the lead, because that way you will not tackle tax avoidance in the end. We wanted to do something about it together with the rest of the world, and then we decided to become a precursor in the field of transparency. Since then, we have made a great deal of progress, because I think we are clearly at the forefront of this issue. We have indicated that we stand for certain strengths. For example, we consider the exemption from participation to be an extraordinary, reasonable, sensible and well-preserved instrument to prevent double taxation. We also attach great importance to giving advance assurance, even if it is only because this is an enormous amount of hassle in the implementation and there is no social benefit associated with uncertainty. We also attach importance to sensible treaties. I think that we have been able to show our active attitude to tax avoidance very nicely during our presidency, and this was partly drawn by my colleague Mr Dijsselbloem. For example, we have called off the country-by-country reporting between tax administrations 40 days after it was submitted by the Commission. That's a record. We have taken five measures unanimously. Let us bear that in mind, because that means that 28 countries with 28 different systems and 28 parliaments know what this means. I dare say that this takes years with VAT. We adopted Council conclusions on a VAT action plan. We got the VAT voucher proposal through, which has been there for years. We have launched a firm approach against carousel fraud and that has led to great enthusiasm among the other 27 colleagues. We've even given some more training to countries to help them on that point. There is also transparency in the Code of Conduct Group. In short, we have had a huge impact on tax avoidance in many areas and on the OECD's first implementation in the EU. The package is solid. The reduction in interest deductions was extremely difficult and sensitive in many countries. The CFC was extremely difficult for a large number of countries and the exit levy hurt those countries that did not yet have it. You don't have pain for nothing. Mr Grashoff spoke of dilution and paper tigers. Well, nobody's afraid of paper tigers, but at first the resistance was pretty strong. It came from all kinds of angles and was against all kinds of different measures, because the changes are doing something. Mr Grashoff calls himself an optimistic man, but at least he is not in a practicing sense. Possibly because of his faith; I don't know. At least he's not practicing it. I'd like to fix him up a little bit anyway. The anti-abuse measure, the exit levy and the hybrid measure have passed through almost unchanged. The interest deduction limit is unchanged in its core. An interest rate deductibility of up to 30% of the EBITDA is simply in line with the OECD. Sure, there was a price threshold in it, and it's gotten higher. Sure, existing loans are spared as long as the duration of the loan runs. That's no more than reasonable. After all, someone has set his business on this perfectly legal practice of attracting debt; there is not so many criminals to that. It must be given the opportunity to adapt to a new reality. There should be no question of eternal grandfathering, which I have warned and watched over, but of an appropriate transitional arrangement. There is also a transitional regime for Member States with equivalent legislation, as we call it. Do all countries fall under that 2024-story? No, of course not. You have to prove before 2017 that your legislation is at least equivalent in the area of interest relief reduction. Even then, you will be forced to amend your legislation, but until 2024 you will have time to apply your old and existing legislation, including with interest relief restrictions, and only then to move on to the new legislation. The Netherlands is not included. The Netherlands will move on to the new legislation by 2019. Some other countries actually have very credible legislation in this area, although it still needs to be reviewed. So that offers a neat transition; no dilution. At the CFC things have become stricter and more flexible. Mr Groot and Mr Grashoff both asked about this. The 40% has become stricter and is now heading towards 50%. There's been some concern about the substance requirements. The Commission's original text in this area, also in accordance with neat tax practices, referred to "valid commercial reasons'. So something would only be approved if you actually had commercial reasons to do so, and therefore no tax reasons. That has changed into "substantive economic activity." You need to get a specialist to see what the difference is at all. What this means is that the substance you need must have a relationship with the income flows you realize there. Is one man enough? Well, if that income belongs to that one man, one man is indeed sufficient. But if you make a profit of tens of millions of euros there, everyone can see that one man is not enough. It's not just about people, it's also about assets, buildings and all kinds of real business appearances. There was, of course, a threat that it would become another term, namely "wholly artificial," the term of the Court. That actually means you're off the hook when you put down one person. In his role as chairman, the Netherlands has been able to prevent this in a proper manner. This means something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u67	It literally says that these substantial economic activities must consist of people, buildings and stuff, but there is no quantification. Analyses that we hear are simply: there is no quantitative requirement and that means that one person at one desk in one office is simply enough. Can the Secretary of State guarantee me that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u68	That would have been the case if we had allowed the outcome of the negotiations to be 'holly artificial'. That would mean that one only falls through the basket when the whole thing is artificial. Well, it's soon not entirely artificial. This is a title that maintains a relationship with the size and nature of the income. So there's an assessment of that. If the income is generated by one person, one person is sufficient. But in many cases it won't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u69	The Secretary of State says so here, but it doesn't say so. There's no explanation. There's no connotation. It's a hard letter. It says, "You have to meet those conditions." I can't do more than add up to one. I think that's just what it says. Now the question is whether the Secretary of State can give me a firm guarantee that there is indeed a relationship with the size of the financial flows? Or can a smart lawyer interpret and implement this at the heart of the matter in such a way that one person, a letterbox company, is actually sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u70	I confirm that it will not generally be true that one person is sufficient. It's not that. I know that Mr Grashoff has graduated from the same university as me and that he can certainly count further than one. In this practice, too, more than one is counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u71	I'm trying to understand something, namely the substantive economic reasons. These are a condition for CFC, but in fact you could have set them as a kind of general substance conditions, as we have substance rules when asking whether you can use treaty benefits or rulings. There's a difference between those two? Is one stronger than the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u72	What you have here illustrates this beautifully. Someone has profits, income flows. You want to know if they are only placed with the daughter because it is useful for a lower tax rate or that that income is actually earned there. Another way to come up with an answer to the question of whether there is a real or an artificial activity at the daughter 'cause that's what you want to know. That shows what the meaning behind this is. Because it's exactly the same. It's another way of asking yourself if that profit should be there. Are the people in those buildings producing that income flow with these machines or does that income flow really have nothing to do with that? So you're trying to expose artificial income. If there is real income in a daughter, we have no objection to it, because then there is simply money being made in that country. The Dutch want to make money everywhere overseas and in other countries. We are not ashamed of that, we are proud of that. The aim here is to separate artificial income. Then "ho, ho, ho" must be said. It's just that the mother has to pay taxes on that. You can do that on the route of transfer pricing. It has a relationship with the activity. That's why you can ask if "one is enough?" do not answer in general either. It depends on the case. There is quite a case in which one is sufficient, but that is not generally the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u73	I'd like those CFC rules to always apply. The Secretary of State only wants to look at artificial constructions, but then I say: you should always apply that at all times. It's not something you hang a CFC on, no, that's something you want to avoid anyway. I have asked about the difference between the two and I have not actually heard the answer to that. Looks like there's no difference. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u74	A difference between what and what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u75	This is about substance rules that are attached to the CFC, but we have also talked very often about substance rules that are about giving rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u76	No, that's other business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u77	Pre-security. If there is no difference between the two, I wonder what the added value is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u78	No, these are very different cases. It is about substance requirements whether you can use a treaty. On one point, I fully agree with Mr Merkies. On another point, however, I very much disagree, but let me begin with the point on which we are very much in agreement. Of course, this is always supposed to happen like this. That is why we also have CFC rules. In those cases where this does not happen in one way or another, this is how we want to burden it. We simply want to tax income where it is earned and not where it is not earned. There are all kinds of rules for that. If one fails, we still have the other. If other things have failed, you use the CFC and you say: this is not right. That is exactly what we want. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Overigens zal ik straks in reactie op de suggestie van de heer Grashoff om al het inkomen van dochters altijd bij de moeder te belasten dan wel bij te belasten.]] I would not go into that at all. I'll comment on his suggestion separately later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u79	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u80	More reactions to the package have been received. Mrs De Vries spoke about newspaper reports that talk about a patchwork and inequality. As a small country, the profit of the package is that it is hard law. It is not about a club that is going to decide something vaguely with peer pressure, when we do not know on what basis. No, it is indeed hard law, it is just European legislation. We still have to implement them in our national legislation, but that is not a completely new figure. It may be less common in taxation because we have less of this kind of thing, but every country has to implement it. The Commission shall ensure that this is done. It is indeed hard legislation. Would I have liked it better and more convenient if the Commission had come up with a more literal translation of the OECD results from the outset? Yes, I said that in the first general consultation. I would have liked the Commission to have been more closely associated with the OECD's more precise texts from the outset. Extremely good work has been done. Perhaps we would have had even more certainty, but let us count our blessings: it has landed in hard law, exactly what the Netherlands has always hammered on. That's the fight against tax avoidance, part of something I call and-and. It's both. It is a proactive attitude to tax avoidance because we simply want one to contribute to the level of provision, and the other to do so. If one company does that, so should the other. We do not want a level playing field between one coffee shop and another. I agree in advance with Mr Ronnes that not everything that is technically permissible is also morally desirable. That's one way. On the other hand, we are obliged to keep the locational environment tax attractive for all those people who are in employment, as well as 40% of those jobs. This means that we should not be weeping in the defensive over now obsolete constructions, but that we should focus actively on what the tax climate will be like in five years' time to make sure that we are still the job magnet we are today. Let's not be light-hearted about that. It's extremely important. I'll send a letter on Prince's Day with a first sketch, but this is an assignment that goes further. We will be working on this in this Chamber in five years' time, because you will not be dealing with it in a few months' time. The statements I make bring Mr Van Weyenberg to a number of follow-up questions. He's asking if that's not gonna be a race to the bottom. That's what I'm saying. Competition for branches and competition for investments exists, which has always existed. This competition is about the whole, about our whole locational environment. There are fiscal aspects, but there is also the infrastructure, education and the fact that this is a very nice country with very nice cities. There's that when you get Americans here, they almost freak out about what they find here. That is all part of the game, but of course there is competition. As far as taxation is concerned, I am afraid that we will never become the discounter of Europe. We must, also fiscally, maintain a good locational environment. There are too many jobs at stake and there is no reason to let that climate fade. Is that right for a minimum rate? With that question Mr Van Weyenberg is talking about the Vpb. I would like to defend here that sovereignty in the field of taxation is a great asset. He himself says: we also have minimum rates on VAT. Yeah, thanks to the cuckoo, look how much discussion that gets here! If the digital newspapers are out of line with the ordinary newspapers, then four motions are not enough, so apparently we all feel that we are allowed to deal with them ourselves, and that is something I will always defend here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u81	VAT is essentially different from the corporate tax rate. One is national, while by definition corporation tax is cross-border. If there are countries with zero rates, then we call them a tax haven. Would the Secretary of State be in favour of allowing countries in Europe to apply a zero rate of corporation tax? Surely that would be an undesirable situation and provoke an undesirable competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u82	It is so far out of the question that I lack the imagination to be able to do something with this. Europe is in no way known as a region in the world with low corporate taxes. We are dealing with the Dutch tax rates. I have not seen any urge to go to zero rates here, and I think that many will agree with me, although not everyone would be equally pleased that we will not soon become the discounter of Europe. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. A lot of questions have been asked about the public country-by-country reporting. I shall have to do this a number of times in this speech to the policy area of my colleague from V and J, who deals with this, because it is annual reporting law. This means that I am now going to say all kinds of things about another's policy area, but let me try to answer all the questions about it. Questions have been asked about this by Mr Groot, Mr Merkies and Mr Van Weyenberg, as well as by Mrs Schouten. The most frequently asked question concerned the obligation to publish worldwide. We have discussed this before in general consultation. I replied at the time that it would not only create an unequal competitive position. Several Members have said here that they are not impressed by that argument. Others are impressed by that. Many other countries that have to participate in this circus are impressed by this argument. I would therefore like to put the question back to the various Members. We can make everything even more beautiful than it is, but do we want to take a real step or do we want beaches in good intentions or in beauty? I can say from experience that it is a pagan job to get a sensible measure through with 28 countries with 28 different systems and 28 parliaments. That's been done several times now, but if you keep pushing the demands, I don't think it's gonna work. I'd be happy to give that to these questioners. We need to think carefully about this proposal. I think the equidistant argument is quite sustainable. There are three issues on which we are still concerned. They need to be solved, too. In this sense, the Netherlands, including at the request of this Chamber, has a very positive attitude, but let us keep this adventure feasible. I would therefore not like to include further enlargements in the proposal or in the plea. Mrs Schouten also mentioned the country reporting obligation. She asks whether we should stop using country-by-country reporting to help developing countries. First of all, of course, it is for developing countries to adopt this same rule. We have annual reporting rights in Europe, but so do these countries. If countries think that what companies pay in their country should be made clear, they should also make this regulation. That's the easiest way. Then all countries will know from each other what the different companies are paying off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u83	Surely the Secretary of State cannot believe that he wants to leave this to developing countries? They know very well that they do not have that negotiating position and that they will not be able to do so. I really think it's hypocritical of them to leave it to them. Why does the Secretary of State not propose the much simpler measure to apply it to all countries? Then you don't have a discussion about what a tax haven is and what isn't. I already know what the follow-up will be: we will get a list of almost no countries, so that we do not know de facto how much tax is paid by multinational companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u84	That's asking the same question again. The best thing that can happen to us is that not many countries are reported separately. This would mean that there are no countries on the blacklist, while we are developing objective, hard criteria for this. This would mean that there are no countries on the blacklist, because these countries need to be reported separately. That in itself would be very good news. I'm serious about this. Countries are about their own law. Developing countries are also about their own law. This does not require dominant positions. It's an obligation you impose on companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u85	I also said in my contribution that the transparency you achieve with public country-by-country reporting is not a punishment imposed on tax havens. That is how the Secretary of State is now putting it, as if this were only going to apply to tax havens. The obligation for public country-by-country reporting should apply to each country. Then we have insight into the way in which profits are shifted. Then we'll see where companies knock down their profits. In fact, another way out is being sought for a half-baked measure. That would not be acceptable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u86	The proposal that Mr Merkies is now commenting is not the proposal of the Netherlands, of this cabinet or of the Dutch Presidency, but of the Commission. He certainly has to make his views known here, but my intention was to first see if we can give this proposal a positive boost and whether we can do it. The further refinement I would not want to use at the stage in which we have not yet shot the bear. That is, in my opinion, the fastest way to achieve what the Chamber prefers, namely public country-by-country reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u87	I'm still gonna try to get the Secretary of State to see some kind of mutual interest. There are countries in the area of irony to which we give development aid. There are even countries where we send tax advisers to ensure that these countries can get their treaties in order. How wonderful it would be if these countries were given a good position in this public country-by-country reporting to show that they would like to collect the tax that they think is due to them, because the activities are being carried out in their country. In this case, the Netherlands may need to offer less development aid. It may be a bit ironic, but we too have an interest in the fact that, in developing countries, tax is paid by the companies that make profits and carry out activities there, so that these countries themselves can move forward. We have to help these countries, right? If they want something, we shouldn't say, "You can call"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u88	If developing countries consider it important to have these instruments at their disposal, what I can imagine is that they can do much better on their own? Otherwise, they will only be provided with information on matters to be dealt with under European legislation. This would only give them information about companies with a European mother and not about companies with an American mother, for example. If a developing country wants to see this tax revenue, it must regulate it in its own legislation. By the way, all these countries can join the Common Reporting Standard so that they can find out who pays what where as a tax authority. This instrument will also be added; we are going to do so worldwide. This is another instrument, a non-public instrument, but it makes sense for tax administrations at least as much. That brings me almost to the question put to me by Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u89	But first a follow-up question from Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u90	I understand that the Secretary of State says that the countries could take care of that themselves. We also know, however, that Mr Merkies says that the negotiating position of these countries is not always the best. It could help those countries enormously if Europe were to say that it was right to make it clear how much tax is being paid. These countries will then be able to see that this is not entirely in line with the activities being carried out in their country. They may not be able to do so themselves, because of their negotiating position, but they will feel a strong wind in the back if Europe is committed to doing so. What does the Secretary of State think of this argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u91	All things considered, we have a preference not to distort the playing field. Countries that want to settle something can do so in their own legislation. I take note that different members of the Chamber feel differently. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u92	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u93	In fact, Mr Ronnes says: what good is it? The direct effect is, of course, stronger in the exchange of services. Tax administrations are the authorities that have to go after their income and they are going to use that information. The idea is to give society a better understanding of the tax on profits paid by a multinational company in which country. That gives people the insight through which, that is the idea, the tax moral increases. That is not new, because banks, raw materials companies, mining companies, oil companies and the like are already doing it, from the idea that the raw materials that they browse are a kind of public property. That's the background to that. The direct influence should not be overestimated, but it can contribute to tax morality. However, it has been chosen to do so only with multinationals with a turnover of 750 million, as Mr Merkies pointed out. These are 10% to 15% of all companies, but they account for 90% of the worldwide income of multinational companies. In its impact assessment, the Commission concludes that we have a good balance between the administrative burden you impose and the information you receive. We have said several times here in the Chamber that we attach exactly to that impact assessment. I am not saying that democracy and the representatives of the people present should not have a different view on it, but this is what the impact assessment delivers. Mr Ronnes asked about the business sensitive information. That point was also considered in the impact assessment. The impact assessment has shown that this does not lead to information that allows you to unravel business secrets or business processes. Of course, we already knew that: if oil companies already did, we could test these things before. All in all, the view, also expressed in the impact assessment, that redirection to business secrets is not one of the possibilities, that we really should opt for public access and that we should not expect major sacrifices in the sense that business secrets would be on the streets. Several questions of all kinds have been asked. I'll try to walk them by in order as much as I can, but here and there I might be a little sloppy in my notes. Members sometimes talk so quickly that I almost have trouble keeping up with the questions, let alone have to look for or write the answer myself. Mr Groot is asking me, in order to be sure, whether the CFC also applies to non-EU fish. Yes, that was already the Commission's proposal. This also applies to EU countries. There has been an enlargement to EU countries, so the example of Cyprus is so to speak in terms of prices. Several questions have been asked about the blacklist. What's going on with that? Actually, there are two of them. At ATTAP, the list will be drawn up in the Code of Conduct Group with a kind of pre-assessment in September 2016 and a longlist. That is a list of high-risk countries, but it is not yet the final list. That final list should be agreed sometime in 2017. Those criteria are being worked on. I thought it was Mr Merkies' call for all this to be settled in 2016. I don't think we're gonna make it, but there's some serious work going on. That, of course, is new. When I arrived here, I received the congratulations of the various participants because they liked to see a blacklist. In the meantime, we are just making it and there are even countries on that list. That's a firm claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u94	Mr Merkies is placing his third interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u95	It's not just a call from me. It is a motion which I tabled together with Mr Van Weyenberg and which has achieved a majority in the Chamber. It called on the State Secretary to bring this up with the European Commission. The issue was that the list should be drawn up and that sanctions should be introduced as soon as possible and at least this year. Did he ask and if so, what was the reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u96	Yeah, that was picked up as quickly as possible. There's a whole schedule. A gross list and criteria are already being worked on this year, but I cannot guarantee that they will all be ready in 2016. All 28 countries are in the process of doing so, so it is being quickly taken up in accordance with the wishes of the Chamber. I'm just saying I can't guarantee that these 28 countries will lay the egg exactly in 2016. The planning is now complete in 2017, including the criteria and the final, completed list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u97	The problem is that this does not really give me the impression that the Secretary of State has actively raised this issue, although the Chamber has explicitly requested it. Has the Secretary of State asked this question specifically to the Commissioner? Has he talked to his fellow finance ministers about it? Did he say to them: boys, it has to be this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u98	The blacklists have even increased a priority strategy under the Dutch Presidency, because we have also said on the occasion of the Panama Papers that this blacklist needs to be established quickly. So it's urgent, but I can't really look at the homework of 28 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u99	The Secretary of State chooses his words in such a way that I keep wondering what exactly he's saying. I understand that he cannot break iron with his hands, but Mr Merkies' question, and the request of the Chamber expressed in the Chamber's adopted motion, is to do as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u100	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u101	Exactly. And the question is to continue to do so after the Dutch Presidency. If it does not succeed, the Chamber may be very disappointed, but it knows one thing: it has not been up to the Secretary of State. I think we're asking for confirmation. I just got it, and I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u102	I thought I'd carried out this active attitude. Mr Grashoff has provided two ideas. I always like it when an optimist shows himself sad, but pulls out by coming up with ideas. I like ideas, but I can't embrace all the ideas right away. His first question is whether it would not be wise to always raise the Dutch rate. In the situation of a daughter elsewhere and a mother here, please don't bring up broken families, because this is about companies and the profits of the daughter should always be adjusted to the Dutch level. For a country that has once sailed the world seas, driven trade and had business overseas, this is a rather dramatic proposal. That would mean that we would allow all our daughters to compete unfairly and place an uneven playing field in the countries in which they operate. It is not for nothing that the Commission says, says many people and I also say that you must tax profits where the value is created. If that value is created in a country with a lower rate than the Dutch, you pay less tax than you paid in the Netherlands. The opposite is also possible: if you make the profit in a country where the rates are higher, you pay more and you don't get a discount here. You tax the profit where the value is created. This automatically means that you have a level playing field with the other local players. That is why we have invented the exemption from participation; I believe that it has its origins in the seventeenth century. In fact, it is the participation exemption that all European countries have taken over and applied among themselves. The Netherlands also does this worldwide. I predict to Mr Grashoff that that will be the future. The participation exemption is a very pure and fair way of achieving a level playing field everywhere. Sometimes that tax rate of that daughter gives you an advantage and sometimes a disadvantage. However, this always has to do with money earned there, with the level of provision that was there. That's fair. Mr Grashoff's second idea was to link the substance to the requirement that 10% of turnover in the Netherlands should fall as personnel costs. I honestly believe that the answer has already been given very well by Mr Groot. I don't want to repeat that answer. We must be careful not to fight things that do not need to be fought. We must also prevent the instrument with which we are fighting from being so blunt that there is all kinds of collateral damage. We must always ensure that profits are taxed where value is created. This kind of rude rule doesn't usually fit in with that. I see Mr Grashoff now rushing to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u103	In my proposal, for the sake of clarity, it was a condition for companies established in the Netherlands. It is about effectively stopping letterbox companies, of which we have 12,000 to 20,000 in the Netherlands. You want real companies, not letterbox companies. I'm always open to suggestions as to how else to do it. It's been my creativity to get this one in. If the Secretary of State agrees with me that it is wise for those 12,000 to 20,000 letterboxes - for example, to separate the chaff firmly from the chaff, then I challenge him to indicate how. If he says that 10% is wrong, then I would like to ask him if he is prepared to investigate what or a real demand you would have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u104	If we look at the OECD instruments, we see the following. I don't even have to say that, because that's what the outgoing chairman of the NOB (Dutch Order of Tax Advisors) did on the front page of the FD a year ago. He said we won't see the bottom of the mailbox market here in the long run. That was his conclusion. That's what the president of the NOB said. I think that is the conclusion when we look at the OECD instruments, but that goes with a fine toolbox, which has been developed together, which is sensible, that is not a blunt axe, and that we ensure that profits are taxed where value is created and that we all pay fairly what we have to pay. At the same time, by that time, we have taken care of this. I would like to always add that the Netherlands also has an attractive locational environment, including taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u105	In about every scandal that passes by here, a vague Dutch letterbox - for example, plays a role. Or it's a Russian entrepreneur, Rostec, who supplies weapons with which MH17 was shot out of the sky and who enjoys tax advantages here. Or it's some vague letterbox company that's been a turntable for large-scale fraud in Mozambique. Am I the only one who's worried about this place? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we have an essential issue here that we need to resolve? And does the Secretary of State agree with me that the very fine OECD instruments with the undressing practices that have taken place in the meantime are simply not going to make us do something about the 12,000 to 20,000 mailboxes? Would he at least like to go on the search with me how we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u106	That's two different things. My answer to Mr Grashoff's further question may cheer him up again. It is in the case of letterboxes, let us also call it trusts, both of which we think they are not acceptable as regards things such as substance requirements and so on. The second case, namely when we find something substance or a Dutch company, has already been investigated. That's the OECD BEPS project. The 34 OECD countries have all participated in this. A lot of developing countries have contributed to this. That's a global exercise of size, a unique. That's never happened before. That's very special. That's what it says. It's a line of files that needs to be implemented. That's the way to do it, not with the blunt axe, but with a well-thought-out toolbox to counter avoidance in all kinds of ways. After all, we all seem to think that you should pay taxes where your value is created, that not only one should do so, but the other too, that not only you pay taxes, but also the neighbor. That is the great project that Mr Grashoff should embrace. That is also the project that the cabinet has embraced. Then his question remains about the trusts. In addition, there are all kinds of things, without you sometimes knowing more, that make you feel bad. It happens. We have found that there is a need for further legislation. My colleague, the Minister for Finance, has now put this legislation on the web by means of consultation. So the internet consultation for that legislation has just been completed, but everyone can get to know the thing that happened. The aim is to send that bill to the Council of State in October and to send it to the House of Representatives in early 2017. These include firm measures and various forms of tightening up that also enable the Dutch Bank to exercise better supervision and to improve the internal management of the trusts. By people who have been working on this, I am told that these legislative proposals are well known as solid. This will be seen by the Chamber as soon as this package is submitted to the Chamber in early 2017. Mr Van Weyenberg has asked whether fines against trust offices are part of this. The new bill offers opportunities to publish enforcement measures. Fines can be included. I hope I am not wronging anyone now, but I think Mr Merkies asked for whistleblowers. With me, the whistleblowers always go through life under the name of tippers. The Chamber knows I'm fighting to protect those tipsters. That is also necessary, because there are cases of tippers who, after giving a tip, got a tap on their heads and were seriously in danger. We really need to keep an eye on that. I've given up a couple of times with the Chamber to protect tippers. If we stop protecting them, they won't come. I think that is a very serious matter. Mr Ronnes asked about the Panama Papers. We pulled the names that came up from the files. The team working on this at the Tax Administration had perhaps initially to suppress a feeling of disappointment because it turned out to be less cases than had been hoped. If you work in the Tax Administration for this purpose, then sometimes fanaticism is greater than you can lose on the basis of the number of names. We have now been able to link half of those names to social services numbers. They've now been passed on to the handler. From previous cases, we know that it may take a while before you finish the treatment. At LuxLeaks it turned out that more than half of the names turned up were people who had savings all over the world, but they had indicated this neatly in box 3 at the tax office. Let's consider them. Even now there can be a lot of people who have arranged that neatly. However, the names are all reviewed and half are now under discussion. That's what we're gonna hear. At the time, I promised to report in the six-month reports on what comes out of this, just as LuxLeaks has done a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u107	The Secretary of State notes that previous experience shows that half of the people have made a clean report in box 3. So not half; it seems to me that there is a lot to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u108	Yeah, that's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u109	Half of the current names are now covered by action. Can the Secretary of State outline a timetable? I understand it's going to take a while, but "take a while" is a stretchy concept that can be thought of differently. How long is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u110	It's hard to predict that. A month or two ago, I gave an AO insight into how far we were with LuxLeaks. Sometimes you spend years doing things like this. In this case too, it is not very simple. If you've linked the names to bsn's, you'll be missing data a lot. It's a huge search process. You need to see exactly what's going on. Who actually paid what for what reason and who paid what income flow where tax? The people who were hired to do that, I'm happy to do their job. If I were to make predictions now, that would probably not only be silly but also somewhat reckless. I'd be happy to check the average lead times for the LuxLeaks cases. I told you about that two months ago, but I'd be happy to bring it back up. We could include this in an AO on the six-month report as comparative material. But those aren't processes that go very fast. I think the hands of Mr Van Weyenberg and I are a little more itchy. It is not the people who are working on it, but the fact that it is quite complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u111	That's youthful fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u112	I think the people who work with this on a daily basis can wait even less than the Secretary of State and I. I don't doubt that for a second. I understand very well that it is probably part monks' work to get above the table what's in those pieces and how to link things up. I appreciate the Secretary of State's offer for the next six months' report. I would therefore like to hear when, on the basis of previous experience, at least all the material is in progress. Then we know that everything in it is mined. I don't know if there's anything to say about that. It's a separate subject. I'd like that information, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u113	You always start with the easiest half. That half is now under treatment. We've linked half the names to a bsn, but we know from experience that it won't be possible to link all the names to a bsn. Sometimes you have a name that sounds Dutch, but we don't know a damn thing about it. It happens. We're halfway there now. We will never make it to 100%, but we are working very hard on this, because the tax authorities' enthusiasm for this case is, of course, strong. Of course, everyone here understands that. Mrs. Schouten asked about the Starbuckscase. I will try to adhere to the secrecy in the Tax Act, but at the same time try to clarify what clarity is needed, but always within the lines. It is known that the Netherlands has appealed. It is also known that the decision on the basis of which surgery is carried out is not yet public at all. The expectation is that she will soon be. This means that the procedure before the courts in Luxembourg is now under way. In such a state aid case, the alleged State aid must be collected directly. I cannot make communications about individual taxpayers, but I can say that the Tax Administration generally adheres to this type of business. I always use a little sign language. The last time I did that, everyone pretended he didn't understand me. I hope that's different now. The Netherlands is doing what a country like the Netherlands is always supposed to do: we follow the law, we are a member of the EU and we abide by the rules. Mrs Schouten asked what we do with tax treaties with countries on the blacklist. Sometimes you are very happy with a country on the blacklist that you have a tax treaty with it, because then you will at least have provisions on the exchange of information and assistance on tax recovery. Without these things, you don't start much. Those are things you do want. The withdrawal of treaties is therefore in no way helpful. If we have a blacklist later, of course there are other ways to let a country know it's on the blacklist. The instruments will include sanctions. Mr Merkies was just ahead of me by calling that. The Commission is still completing those sanctions. That's the thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u114	I have looked up all the countries with which the Netherlands has a treaty as of 1 January 2016 and also reviewed which countries are on the draft blacklist and what kind of treaties they are. I can tell you that these are not all treaties that see on information exchange. I call Barbados, for example. With this we have a treaty that sees the double tax agreements, the prevention of double taxation. That's on the draft black list. Bermuda, Panama, which I have just mentioned, and Hong Kong, too. With Guernsey, too, we have a treaty that deals with such taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u115	Do you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u116	I wanted to point out that this is not just about countries with which we only have an information exchange treaty, but also about countries with which we actually have a tax treaty, a double taxation convention. What does the Secretary of State think of such treaties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u117	A country that may have low rates is not necessarily a country that needs to be blacklisted. Countries choose their own tax rates. It's not a black list of low-rate countries. For example, there are countries on the black list that refuse to exchange information. We're gonna see that, by the way. We don't know that yet, because we're working on it. This list includes countries which do not want to give us the information they are kept, who do not want to give us openness and who are not prepared to give us information about taxpayers who we believe are owed something. Such countries are blacklisted, but the prevention of double taxation of, for example, holdings in Hong Kong does not seem to me to be a bad thing. I can't find out that much harm.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u118	I am not talking in general about countries with which we conclude treaties; I mentioned a number of countries that are on the draft black list of Europe because of the way they operate in the tax field. I note that we have tax treaties with some of them. Those are not treaties on the exchange of information, but real tax treaties. Then it is a bit strange that the Netherlands says: we recognise that these countries are blacklisted; therefore there is a sanction, but we keep our own tax treaty, because we like it so much. That's double standards, isn't it? Then the Secretary of State could also draw the consequences of that blacklist, for example the reconsideration of such a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u119	There could be a lot of different things in a tax treaty. Not everything is beneficial to that country. Some things you want yourself. This includes not only the exchange of information; other things are included. Now let's finish this process. We are working on blacklists at great speed. That's gonna land on it or not. I have seen too many concepts with too many different criteria to believe that the concept will also become the final product. Let's see what comes out of it. In the end, sanctions are also linked to this. This could be related to the effectiveness of behavioural provisions of a particular species. Let's go through that process now. Something comes out of that and the Netherlands will then stick to it. That is what we are going to discuss here, and we are all going to get chips about it, and you name it all, what we can do with it. But let the process come to a conclusion. It identifies, among other things, the actions that we must take against countries that are blacklisted and the sanctions that we must have. That is what is on the table, and that is what we must act on. There are a lot of blacklist concepts in circulation along all kinds of different criteria. One blacklist was simply the sum of the blacklists of all the European countries that had them unofficially. It's not all the same decent work. My proposal is, therefore, to wait and see what comes out of it, and to have this debate and to see what the Netherlands and other European countries need to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u120	Continue your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u121	By the way, I dare to say to Mrs Schouten with great certainty that there are consequences for the route, given its design.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u122	I also have a question about the blacklist. Does this mean that the Netherlands is not currently using a blacklist? Are we waiting for Europe now? I can hardly imagine that the Netherlands does not currently have a blacklist. I have another question. From the Panama Papers it emerged that a furniture maker has four offshore companies in the Bahamas, one for his son and three for himself. Then all the alarm bells will ring anyway. Why would a furniture maker from the middle of the country literally have four offshore companies in the Bahamas? What would be the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u123	I'm not gonna speculate about individual furniture makers. Nor should Mr Van Dijck. It is obvious that there are people in the Panama Company who actually owed Dutch tax but found a way not to do so. We believe that not all of these have been cases of tax avoidance, but that this could be mainly about fraud, money laundering, avoidance, fake transactions and whatever. It could very well be that's what this is about. We won't know until we know. That's why we're doing the research first. This means first that all these names are passed on to the treatment workers who work with them. A blacklist doesn't have anything to do with it. It is well known that the Netherlands does not have a blacklist; we have talked about it several times. The Netherlands does agree with the blacklist initiative, because we agree that information exchange is perhaps at the heart of the fight against tax avoidance. If tax authorities no longer exchange that information among themselves and they don't get it from banks and so on, then we can't do anything. That's why the information exchange is the first station on this trip. The blacklist is primarily aimed at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u124	The exchange of information must take place automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u125	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u126	So far this has been done on request and hardly has been done. I'm gonna go back to that furniture maker. What is the role of the banks? Banks report to the IRS what my savings are at the end of the month. When a bank transfers five tons from a furniture maker to the Bahamas, could the Secretary of State not force that bank to pass on such a transaction to the tax authorities? Of course, it's weird that a furniture maker who makes his money here transfers tons to his offshore company in the Bahamas. Can the Secretary of State just ventilate what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u127	Worldwide, we are going to implement the Common Reporting Standard. Then we know from our own country and from the other countries what the various taxpayers have somewhere in their assets. Then we can do a lot more. That is a revolution in global data exchange. That's done on an automatic basis. That's a unique thing. We're gonna invent a lot. That's why I've said before that black-sparing is a sunset business. I don't see how that's gonna work anymore. How are you supposed to hide money when we report everything to each other? Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg called for the support of Member States to call on the US to take action against hybrid mismatches. High-level officials have spoken with US colleagues. This issue has also been discussed in the Council working groups. We're gonna see what comes out of there. Mr Van Weyenberg is right to say that the peculiarities of American tax legislation are behind this. That's something that's going on around the world with regard to the Americans. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has previously asked for his motion on this matter to be adopted by the House of Representatives in order to estimate the budgetary consequences of ACTAP. He asks whether the adjustments to the interest rate deduction limit have any effect on this. I do not know the actual number yet, but as soon as I know that is also the thrust of the motion for a resolution I will report that number. It is not very likely that the adjustment of the interest deduction will affect the structural amount. If it starts later, in this case in 2019, the effect will also occur later. The Netherlands does not belong to the 2024 countries, but to the 2019 countries. So no, I don't see the structural changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u128	Mr Van Weyenberg, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u129	It is good that you remind me of that, Mr President. I await the execution of the motion adopted. The reason I asked for it is that next year I know that there is a 200 million BEPS mission already in the books. I was wondering whether the agreement would be compromised in the short term, in particular because of the fact that there is further phasing out of the interest rate deduction. 200 million for next year is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u130	That is why we have tax plans and budgets. That task will have to be met. That is the clean job I have between now and the third Tuesday of September. Mr Van Weyenberg is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u131	Sure, but that was a task within the framework of the BEPS. For that, you mainly need international agreements. I understand the Secretary of State in such a way that he says: if it does not work, for example, because it has been phased out in the Brussels agreements: I am pleased that he is going to do other things in order to achieve that task in terms of tax avoidance, if necessary with national measures. Is that what the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u132	Then I will look for the spirit of the mission in countering unintentional avoidance. I've had a year to look for it. That's my clean job. Mrs De Vries rightly said that fraud undermines morale very much. In fact, she asked whether there are sufficient instruments now. Even then, I will be working on the subject of V and J, but there are a large number of instruments. It's always easier for me to be proud of a colleague than what I do. There is also every reason to be proud of that, because I really have a huge list of instruments here. You don't want to know, but I'm going to list them anyway. Listen to this! Firstly, we have improved the implementation test in the legislation. This means that any legislation and regulations are subject to prior scrutiny for fraud prevention. Through its new way of dealing with data, the Tax Administration can now detect abuse, evasion and negligence, but also fraud based on pattern recognition. This is done by matching account numbers, IP addresses and network analyses, but also fiscal and economic behaviour. Bankruptcy fraud, a persistent problem, has been identified, leading to an approach by the polyplars. The same parties were found to account for a significant part of the bankruptcy fraud. We have set up the national and also regional information and expertise centres. In it all chain partners work together. I cannot advertise enough for the working group on the fight against construction, which, by the legislator, detects and closes the possibility of circumvention, but certainly also detects fraud. At the request of this Chamber, that working party is now very busy considering ways of combating avoidance from box 3. This has been a major discussion in the handling of the Tax Plan and a clear appeal has been made to the Working Party on Construction Control. We have the approach of facilitators, including malpractice tax advisors, who are also being tracked down. For money laundering, we have set up the Anti Money Laundering Centre with money laundering teams; yes. By the way, these teams need to take the power away. We have special teams that can be very flexible and very quickly on the spot in money laundering investigations. We have the Anti-corruption Center, which focuses on major international corruption cases. New to the firmament is a special and integral team consisting of specialists and generalists in the field of cybercrime. This includes the FIOD, the police, the prosecution and Europol. In the VAO, I promised Mr Groot to ask my colleague from V and J in the specific area of money laundering to put the approach on paper, possibly with cooperation in the form of everything I can make a tax contribution to it. That too is an approach that has been further refined in recent years. So there's a lot going on. Is that enough? It's a lot, but if you ask everyone here personally if it's enough, everyone will always tend to say it's not enough. I'm gonna take the lead in that, because things happen that go against your sense of justice so much that you always want more. However, we would always like to have more capacity in the Tax Administration, more agents on the streets and more of everything. At some point there's a limit to that. But there are a lot of different ways in which we are working to combat fraud, because nothing is so undermining for morale as a cheating neighbor. Mrs De Vries reminded me, by the way, in a very polite and pleasing way, that I have not kept my promise. I said that during the Dutch Presidency I would come up with some interpretations of typical things that could trigger the anti-abuse measure, so things for which we could use the anti-abuse measure, the GAAR (general anti-abuse rule). I simply did not get there. The whole team, I say with great respect for the team, is on apegaps throughout the exercise with the ATAD; everyone is exhausted. We didn't get to it. It didn't work. All energy has gone to the night-time negotiation, invent tricks and tricks to get 28 countries behind that approach. I do have an example. In the Netherlands we had similar legislation, the fraus legis. With that teaching piece at hand, there is the example of a parent company paying own funds into a subsidiary in a country with a low tax rate, after which that subsidiary returns that amount to the mother, who then deducts that amount. That is a technique, a kind of practice against which you can use a general abuse measure. Member States will all implement that general abuse measure. In this case, we still have interest relief rules on top of that, so you will not deal with exactly these types of cases with the general abuse measure, but some of them can already be captured through interest relief measures. These are examples of things that you just know isn't right and are never meant to be by the legislator. One will result in circumvention while the other will not fall into the prices. Mr Van Dijck asked about the multilateral instrument. What is that, anyway? One of the results of the BEPS project is that tax treaties need to be amended. This could also be the case in the end with the examples mentioned by Mrs Schouten. In any case, it affects tax treaties. If all the countries around the world make tax treaties together, you'll have thousands of them. You can spend decades adjusting all these tax treaties in the same way. The idea has emerged of creating a single multilateral treaty, which is the multilateral instrument, developed under the flag of the OECD and the G20, and to endorse it with each other and then to regulate it in such a way that all the specific provisions in specific treaties are overruled by what we have regulated in that multilateral instrument. Then you have at one stroke adapted all the tax treaties to the new insight and to the agreements you have made with each other. The goal is to have a result somewhere in 2017. However, it is a very complex process. It's a real novel. The Netherlands participates enthusiastically in this. At the time, I promised in a letter that I would keep the House of Representatives informed of the claims as soon as it crystallizes and comes into a more decisive phase. Then we can talk about what it means. So it is basically a way of adapting the treaties to the agreements you make with each other on tax avoidance. Mr Van Dijck specifically asked why we are not making information exchange requests to Panama. We could do that, but we'd have to go after those names first. We've now turned half those names into bsn's. We are now looking at what the cases are and need to look at what information we need. And maybe that information doesn't come from Panama at all, but from a completely different country. The consultant was in Panama, but a lot of these people may have nothing to do with Panama and something to do with another country. In that case, we must make requests for information to those other countries. But first you have to find out what you want to know with all those taxpayers. Mr Van Dijck asked me about the nominee-share holding company and the possible risks of tax evasion. Constructions with nominee shareholders have a high risk of money laundering and even terrorist financing. This means that a bank that works with nominee shareholders is required to conduct enhanced customer research. ABN does so, but also has as a policy that is not involved in tax evasion. In fact, I am here in the area of a fellow executive, namely the Minister of Finance. Is such a nominee shareholder or liable for the tax avoidance or tax evasion that is taking place? Tax evasion, not avoidance, is punishable. The nominee is the one who holds the shares and can therefore be called upon to do so. I think I've run out of questions. It was a whole suit. I'd like to leave it up to you to look for a follow-up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u133	We'll do our best. Mr Grashoff has another question for the Secretary of State; that will be the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u134	I would ask the Secretary of State to answer the following question, bearing in mind the answer given by the Secretary of State. Can he outline to me what changes have been made to the measures contained in the ATAP, which have been implemented in the framework of the OECD/BEPS project? What changes for the company IKEA? This has paid very little tax in Europe for many years by constantly shifting loans from daughter to daughter. What's really going to change for this company, so it's really gonna pay substantial taxes? Can the Secretary of State explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u135	This question about this particular company has been asked before. My answer, not only verbally but also on paper, was then a little more finer. Mr Grashoff now invites me simply to break the law and to talk about individual taxpayers. He can't, and he knows it. But I thought I made up a little ruse on that. I have offered to provide a technical instruction on every conceivable construction and to leave to the Chamber what construction it wants to see explained. It is, of course, free to mention things mentioned in different brochures. So I am always willing to explain something about specific constructions separately from individual taxpayers, but this cannot be done in relation to a specific taxpayer. I can't. I can answer Mr Grashoff's question in general. Because all kinds of things are going to change. Take the exit charge. For example, in many countries in Europe, in many Member States, the following could happen. You did research, and that led to intellectual property. Until then, all this involved costs, possibly subsidies, because that is what is happening, and possibly deductions for all these costs. And when it becomes profitable, someone says: now the tax climate is too unfavourable for me here, now I'm going to reap the fruits of that intellectual property somewhere else, without paying for it. So you actually export the value without paying for it. An exit charge ensures that this does not happen. This simple way of circumventing is simply prevented by an exit charge. A second example is the reduction in interest relief. It is not for nothing that Mr Grashoff's neighbor, Mr Van Weyenberg, asks about the proceeds. The reduction in interest-rate deductions is going to do something. It will no longer be possible for companies to happen to have a completely different ratio between equity and debt in one of their locations with the aim of creating high deductions. Several countries in Europe already had such legislation; a lot of them didn't. So that changes. That's where things change. Mr Grashoff talks about paper tigers, but the tigers are not just paper. Indeed, there are several countries that have protested strongly, and they had never done so against paper tigers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u136	Mr Grashoff, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u137	The latter is a circular reasoning, because in the end they have agreed to something in which there have been such weakenings that it does not seem to affect them so much anymore. With regard to the last question, concerning interest relief, I have to say that all the loans which are 'a company' or 'that type of business' are not covered by the derogation, i.e. those with the 'I' and those beautiful blue letters in that area. And all these loans will turn out to be linked to a company that actually has any economic activity, and thus fall under the exception rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u138	I protest at this, because Mr Grashoff is blackmailing one particular taxpayer without any clear indication. I have offered Mr Grashoff a specific explanation on specific constructions and a full explanation of what is or is not the result of what tax results, regardless of the specific taxable person. He did not take advantage of that offer and then it really does not give a taxpayer a pass here in the Chamber in this way. I really don't think that's a good idea. I'm not gonna be a part of it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u139	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u140	You want to correct that? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u141	No, this is really a personal fact of mine. I really do not think it is right that, when I ask for a specific construction, you are calling at once: you are a certain taxpayer in a negative light. The Secretary of State is perfectly capable of dealing with the construction. The fact that, with the accusation that I have not accepted some offer, I am limited in a debate in the Chamber really goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u142	That was a personal fact. There's no response to that. Mrs. De Vries, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u143	There's been a few more questions I've been asking you. In any case, I had asked how the OECD/G20 measures would be introduced in other countries and other continents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u144	You're absolutely right. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u145	The second question was about the CFC. How does it stand in ATAD's plans and how do they differ from one another in Dutch legislation? Thirdly, the Secretary of State briefly responded to the anti-abuse provisions and mentioned one example of this. I understand that this package has been worked very hard, but I would appreciate it if we could at least get some more examples of anti-abuse provisions in the run-up to Prinsjesdag, so that it can be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u146	I have already put Mrs De Vries' patience to such a test that I am now going to work hard on a few examples. I come before Prinsjesdag with a letter with a few examples of how the anti-abuse measure is being worked out. By that time I hope that everyone has regrouped and made sense again, but it was a wear and tear for a while; I must say that. With a fantastic...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u147	That is a clear commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u148	Mrs De Vries asked a very good question. She wants to know what is actually going on with the BEPS implementation in other countries. I have a full overview of the state of play regarding the implementation of BEPS outcomes in different countries, including the United States. However, that overview does not lend itself very well to an oral explanation, so I suggest that I send it neatly. In any case, it is closely monitored, the OECD is after it and there are whole schedules of colors and traffic lights indicating who is doing what. I think Mrs De Vries could be working on that evenings. In any case, I will ensure that it is sent to the Chamber somehow, perhaps it will just be part of the existing paper flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u149	Mrs De Vries also asked a question about the CFC.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u150	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that the question has been worked out on paper, but I don't understand the answer right now. So let me not just start chatting, because then Mrs De Vries will no longer understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u151	Are you going to take that question off in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u152	Do we have another term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u153	The second term is still to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u154	Then I suggest that I return to it during the second term, and then I will make sure that Mrs De Vries gets a good answer, otherwise it will not do her any good either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u155	I think that's fine. Mr Ronnes has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u156	I've got two dots left. The first point relates to the Ecofin Council's report, because it did not specify which countries have now withdrawn their objections. Can the Secretary of State answer that? And how does the Secretary of State expect this agreement to lie with the parliaments of the other Member States? I also wonder whether the current proposal for a directive also takes into account the legal arrangements that reduce the amount of the income tax to be paid, such as loss relief or the innovation box. If that is not the case, what does the information say about reporting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u157	The latter will not be done. If that were done, there might be more insight into all those trade secrets. However, no whole tax returns are made public. It is really about the tax paid, and regular deductions or deductions, such as the innovation box, can play a role in this, but they are not specified separately. On that basis, you cannot therefore say whether there is circumvention or whatever. You can't make that judgment based on public country-by-country reporting. I come to Mr Ronnes' question about the Ecofin Council. It is not for nothing that countries there can speak in confidence. Countries may object to something, embrace something or express specific wishes at the Ecofin Council. However, the meeting of the Ecofin Council, in which this is finally decided, is open to the public and can therefore be looked at. It is no secret, for example, that Belgium had a lot of hesitation in some proposals. However, it is not for me to indicate which countries had difficulty with which proposals. That's not how it's supposed to be, and that's not the way the Netherlands would want to go. I think Mr Ronnes asked another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u158	Mr Ronnes did indeed ask two questions about the Ecofin Council, including how the agreement lies with the other parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u159	He was wondering if all those reservations are now off the table. The agreement has been adopted and will now have to be implemented. The Commission must ensure that it is implemented by each country. In fact, the Commission should not only ensure that it is implemented by the Member States, but also assess whether this is being done properly and whether it is being properly implemented. We have great support for the fact that this is hard law. This needs to be properly implemented by everyone, even here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u160	I spoke about the UBO register in my first term. After all, I was wondering why we have to endure these tax havens at all. They exist by the grace of anonymity; that is what makes tax havens attractive. I read that there are 1.2 million companies registered on the BVI, but they hardly have any information about those companies because they do not charge Vpb. That doesn't tell them who's behind a company either. And if they already know, they don't know the real owner, they know a nominee. So you can have a treaty with such a country and such a country might want to give the information, but they just don't have that information. Their trade register is wrong, they don't have a UBO registry, it's connected with nominee shareholders, trusts, offshore banking et cetera. If you wanted to know, you wouldn't get it. Can the Secretary of State now include mandatory automatic information exchange, a trade register that is in order and a good UBO register in these treaties? Then you've got something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u161	In any event, as a result of the Panama affair, we have argued that we are going to exchange UBO information within Europe. We can then not only see in our own registers who is behind something, but also in those of other European countries. We do not always have that in other countries. We are not in charge of parliaments in other countries. We also do not want to ban some countries in terms of trade because their parliament has not yet decided on a UBO register. However, I fully agree with Mr Van Dijck that information exchange is the key to combating tax avoidance and evasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u162	I think it's so naive. We're talking tax havens. They're a few Caribbean islands, including our own islands. I call Curaçao. Bonaire has a 0% Vpb. With the Cayman Islands and the BVI, you don't trade at all. They exist at the mercy of giving protection to people who want to avoid tax and who do not want to be visible. That happens under the guise of privacy. But it's naive to believe that, because that's obviously not because of privacy. It concerns pure tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u163	Let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u164	My question is as follows. We don't want to trade it. We do not trade with it, so they are the hiding place for the big money launderers and the big avoiders of the Netherlands. The Secretary of State must do something about that, with or without a treaty. Unless he's boycotting them and blacklisting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u165	I support the desire for information exchange. There will be 28 countries in the world that have a UBO register. We do business with 160 countries. I do not think Mr Van Dijck wants to say that we should not trade with all these 132 countries. It is also naive to think that the Netherlands alone decides how other countries should behave. I agree, however, that we need to ensure as much information exchange as possible on a permanent and hard basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u166	Mr Merkies, you have had three interruptions. If any of your questions have not been answered, you may refer to them. It's limited to that. As soon as there's a discussion or new questions, I'm gonna cut it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u167	This is really only about the questions I have asked about the investigation into the tax revenues that have gone wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u168	That's right. It's about 9% and 5.5%. I have wronged Mr Merkie. That's right. On precisely this issue, a year ago, I sent a letter with the so-called Vpb analysis. It's about the development of the Vpb. That's a very fine-meshed analysis that's been working on for a year. Everything is neatly calculated. It takes into account not only what is paid to Vpb, but also what has been paid to energy taxes, for example. There are also shifts. Actually, I just want to refer to that letter. Now I can try to answer quickly, but this is all sorted out. It's all on paper. I want to take the letter with love, but then I have to go read my own letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u169	Maybe the link can be forwarded. But Mr Merkies undoubtedly has the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u170	In greater detail than that, I cannot give the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u171	I asked whether in the agreements currently being drawn up with industry in the context of international corporate social responsibility, tax avoidance could also be a paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u172	That's a good one. Shall I try to deal with that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u173	I do have a motion on it. So that order is tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u174	That's what makes it difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u175	Mrs Schouten, you could table the motion in advance and, if necessary, withdraw it if the answer is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u176	Let's take that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u177	That is a rather uncomfortable position for Mrs Schouten, but if she were willing to do so, I would study for a sound answer. This question has slipped away for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u178	That's how we get to business. This put an end to the government's first term. We shall proceed to the second term of office. Everyone has two minutes, rounded up even. I see questionable faces, but this is really in line with the agreements made. I'm gonna rub some salt in the wounds, because this includes filing and reading the motions. So if you have two A4 motions, in your case, I would arrange for a motion to be moved elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u179	Mr. Chairman. That's a little tight. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. I have been confirmed in my impression that this directive is indeed a great deal. The interest-deductibility limit does indeed do something. There is no question that anyone can postpone that until 2024. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers on the CFC rules. They are very clear, also in terms of mixing. If you put a fries stand at a company, you can't create a substance so you don't get taxed. The rules have therefore been tightened up on this point. I fully agreed with Mrs Schouten's speech, namely that you should not do business and should not have tax treaties with countries on a blacklist. I shall therefore support a motion to that effect. I'll file a motion myself on country-by-country reporting. On that point, I did not find the Secretary of State's answer convincing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has published a proposal to ensure that multinationals open up their tax position;]] [[whereas this openness obligation applies only to activities within Europe and some tax havens;]] [[whereas this limited scope does not affect the effectiveness of the proposal, as tax avoidance then runs through countries not covered by the Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that all multinationals operating in Europe are obliged to disclose their tax position in all countries of the world,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Groot and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u180	It was good to hear that Mr Van Weyenberg is now also thinking of a minimum corporate tax rate. I hadn't heard that so clearly before. Perhaps he will also come into our camp when it comes to the tax return, so that they benefit everyone and not only companies that have been undertaxing for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u181	Mr. Chairman. It's a fine debate. I think that the Secretary of State has done his utmost to try to make it clear that what is ahead is indeed something. I am in a wonderful position, because I am still extremely sceptical about it, also on the basis of the lyrics I have seen in the meantime. You can give it both one and the other explanation. Sometimes you'd hope you're wrong. This is such a case: I hope I am wrong, but I remain extremely sceptical about the proposal before us. I am tabling two motions which could be supplementary in the Dutch situation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently thousands of empty letterbox companies located in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that these companies have no reason to establish themselves in the Netherlands other than tax avoidance;]] [[Whereas hiring staff in the country of establishment is a reasonably reliable and relevant indicator of effective economic activity;]] [[Whereas a substance requirement should be proportionate in order not to impose unreasonable requirements on SMEs and start-ups;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate an obligation for companies with a minimum turnover of EUR 1 million in the Netherlands to spend a real percentage of their turnover in the Netherlands on labour costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u182	I would like to vote in favour of motions to tackle letterbox companies, but I am afraid I must vote against this motion. I do not see how spending on labour costs related to turnover can ever be a sensible criterion. There are wholesale companies whose labour costs are less than 1% of turnover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u183	We have had that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u184	For Mr Groot's sake, too, I have drafted the motion in such a way as to call for an examination of a percentage to be determined in real terms. Somewhere there must be an element of substance. It is not illogical to see that in the sense of labour costs. I think it would be logical, in the spirit of the Labour Party, to look for it in that direction. I very much invite Mr Groot to vote in favour of this research motion. We will then have a result which shows whether there really is an opening at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u185	About substance seems to me to be a fertile road, but not in relation to turnover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u186	I find the latter incomprehensible, because I think substance is always related to turnover. This is essentially the size of business in the financial sense. Mr. Chairman. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the participation exemption creates an uneven playing field between foreign companies and Dutch companies;]] [[Whereas the participation exemption is an important reason for letterboxes, e.g. to settle in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the exemption from participation may be adjusted without the risk of double taxation;]] [[Whereas the exemption from participation often leads to a particularly low level of taxation;]] [[asks the Government to adjust the participation exemption in such a way as to ensure that tax is always levied at the Dutch Vpb rate on income coming into the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u187	Mr. Chairman. I know the letter on the lost income the Secretary of State refers to. That would show that there are no lost revenue from tax avoidance and I simply do not believe that story, so that really should be investigated. There is another motion that I have already tabled on country-by-country reporting for all countries. As announced, I shall put it to the vote, partly on behalf of Mrs Schouten and Mr Grashoff. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Groot to agree, because their motion is very similar to the motion I have already tabled. I would also like to make the point that this is an accounting measure, and I hope that the Secretary of State can confirm this, which does not require unanimity, but only a qualified majority. It is important to mention this here. On the agreement itself, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an agreement has been reached on measures to combat tax avoidance by multinationals;]] [[points out that the agreements made represent only a first step towards fairer taxation for multinationals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies and Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u188	Finally, a motion on whistleblowers or tippers, as well. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that whistleblowers as the source of the Panama Papers are of great value in the fight against tax evasion;]] [[Calls on the Government to reflect on the legal treatment of such whistleblowers and to consider the possibility of improvements;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in discussions on this issue at EU level and to inform the Court of Justice about the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u189	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Secretary of State for his reply. I am very pleased that he shares my view that not everything that can be fiscally possible is morally possible. I do have a number of follow-up questions, first of all about the Panama Papers. Has the Tax Administration actually received documents from the ICIJ, or can they only look up the names on the websites, as we all can? I also wonder whether the Panama Papers have changed the views of the Secretary of State and the Tax Administration on tax morals in the Netherlands. After all, every year the Tax Administration measures the tax moral through the tax monitor, and every year a beautiful spacious enough out comes out of it. Perhaps, given the present factual situation, it would be good to look at that again. Then there is the tax avoidance directive. I think it is sensible that the Secretary of State should first deal with the implementation of the tax avoidance directive. We can add measure to measure, but we do not even know what the tax avoidance directive will mean in practice. Of course, thinking about follow-up moves continues quietly, but before we start negotiating new directives, we need to implement this directive carefully. The answer given by the Secretary of State to Mr Grashoff's questions on grandfathering calls for an explanation, because when exactly does the grandfathering of the reduction of interest rates end? I understand that in the Netherlands we have bogus loans or participation loans with very long durations of more than 50 years. The Dutch Tax Administration says it's equity, but if other countries consider these loans to be loans, that's a mismatch. We should actually tackle them, but until that has happened, the grandfathering will continue for 50 years, in this case. My group has previously referred to the danger of trading in e.g. with an old loan. Is that danger over now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u190	Will you come to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u191	Finally, I would like to comment on the public disclosure of the income tax we were talking about. The answer from the Secretary of State was clear, but we cannot derive much from the public country-by-country reporting. For example, when a company pays 5% profit tax, we do not yet know whether there is tax avoidance or, for example, the set-aside of losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u192	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering my questions. One question has not yet been answered, but it will be. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for acknowledging that there is something moral about the constructions. Legally, it may be all possible, but that doesn't make it right. Let that be an encouragement to ensure that a fair share is paid by everyone in the Netherlands and worldwide. I have indeed joined Mr Merkies' motion on public country-by-country reporting, not only European and tax havens, but also visible by country. This is important for the developing countries. That's how we get transparency. That might be the beginning of a solution. In addition, I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has double taxation conventions with a large number of countries;]] [[noting that some of these countries are on the concept of European blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions;]] [[calls on the Government, once the European blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions has been established, to reconsider the double taxation conventions with countries on that list and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is working on concluding agreements in the field of international corporate social responsibility with the Dutch business community and its stakeholders;]] [[Whereas tax avoidance is an important risk to corporate social responsibility, with potentially significant adverse effects on developing countries;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to combat and/or combat tax avoidance in these covenants and to report to the Court on this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-122]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u193	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I would like to repeat once again that I really think that a very big step forward has been taken, first with the OECD and now with the agreement under the Dutch Presidency. There's still a lot to wish for, but this is an achievement. I understand that the employees are lying on apegapen and are almost out of their mind, but from a distance it seems to be not that bad. Still, I'd like to believe that it's been hard work. It's an achievement to be proud of. Much remains to be done. We are still waiting for a number of things, such as the blacklists, Mr Merkies' motion and the question of how Europe can do more towards America. I'm filing two motions. The first concerns the letterbox companies and the intermediate offices. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the trust sector entails major risks, including money laundering, corruption and tax fraud;]] [[noting that the regulator indicated that the instruments of enforcement in the trust sector were inadequate;]] [[Whereas there may be a preventative effect on individual taking-and-shaming of trust offices that violate the rules;]] [[calls on the government to empower the regulator to publish investigations, warnings and sanctions in relation to the trust sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effective tax on profits for companies is showing a declining trend in the European Union;]] [[Whereas the pressure on corporate tax rates may be increased by the European arrangements on the tax base;]] [[Whereas Member States have a shared interest in avoiding a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to investigate the possible design and political feasibility of a European minimum corporate tax rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Grashoff, Mr Groot, Mr Schouten and Mr Merkies.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-124]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u194	It is perhaps a rather strange question for Mr Van Weyenberg. I've filed a motion with almost the same intention before. He's been in a mood too. Mr Dijsselbloem's colleague, Mr Dijsselbloem, rejected this motion with some aplomb. I wonder whether Mr Van Weyenberg realizes that this is the second question on the same point. I wonder if the Secretary of State will now answer the same as the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u195	Hope brings life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u196	I have a question on Mr Van Weyenberg's first motion. I believe that legislation is coming in the area of the trust sector. The consultation on that law has just been done. It's kind of weird riding through there right now. This afternoon we voted on a proposal on which some parties said that it was not good to anticipate things and that they voted against it for that reason. Why does Mr Van Weyenberg choose that now, without waiting for the consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u197	A few weeks ago, director Elderson of the Nederlandsche Bank made another tough speech about the trust sector. It is now clear to me that we really need to increase the instruments. I hope that all this will remain, but I also know that there are limits to enthusiasm in the sector itself. Let the motion be a support for the State Secretary to include the powers of De Nederlandsche Bank in that law in the motion. I would like to repeat that it concerns the competence of De Nederlandsche Bank, so it keeps the discretionary space and can make all these matters public. My patience with this sector is just running out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u198	Mr. Chairman. I said in the first term that we want to have opportunities to deal with certain issues. As far as we are concerned, that is not quite clear on a few points. That is why I am tabling the next motion together with Mr Groot. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[be clear whether the Public Prosecutor's Office has sufficient tools to help those who knowingly and knowingly assist in illegal activities such as tax evasion, tax fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing, and/or facilitate this;]] [[it is desirable to be able to address these parties;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether there are sufficient instruments to help parties knowingly and knowingly address the aforementioned illegal activities, and if there are insufficient instruments, to make proposals for them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u199	As far as I'm concerned, this goes beyond just a team that's gonna handle these cases. I am also concerned that there are sufficient tools in the legislation to deal with these matters in an easy way. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and his commitments on a number of points, including the commitment to provide information on how the OECD's BEPS measures are implemented elsewhere. We look forward to the first outline of the Secretary of State for the Investment Environment in five years' time. As far as we are concerned, this is not only for attracting foreign companies, but certainly also for companies in the Netherlands themselves, because they must also be able to compete with other countries. We're looking forward to that. Perhaps it is a suggestion to look for an extension of the first disk of the Vpb tariff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u200	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the first-term questions of the Chamber. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of recommendations made by the OECD, the European Union intends to introduce a directive in 2019 to combat tax avoidance;]] [[Whereas this may in the long term be accompanied by a loss of sovereignty;]] [[calls on the government not to continue on the path leading to further convergence of tax systems within the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u201	Mr. Chairman. I called the Secretary of State naive in an interruption. I agree, because what did he actually learn from the Panama Papers? I understand that he was very busy with Europe, as an honour broker to get this package through, and that he didn't have time for the Panama Papers. That was a cesspool that opened. Everyone in the Netherlands with a little bit of capital......................................................................................................................................................... There it is safe and the anonymity is guaranteed. That's what they live on. The BVI and the Cayman Islands live by the grace of anonymity: bring your money, you don't even pay Vpb. That doesn't even have to be, because they're making enough money with a few people doing that administration for you or acting as a nominee shareholder. No one knows you exist and you avoid every tax: the inheritance tax, the gift tax, the box 3 tax and you name it. Those tax havens are money-laundering havens, evasion havens. You wouldn't want to do business with that. And if you are afraid that this will affect even one promille of exports: not even that happens, because on the BVI there are 20,000 people or so. There are 1.2 million companies in the BVI, with 50,000 new companies a year. This applies not only to the BVI, but also to the Cayman Islands and Curaçao. Throughout the Caribbean, they live on the flight behaviour of our taxpayers. Apparently, the Secretary of State doesn't want to see this leak or close it. The treaties he concludes with those countries are a farce. The information should be requested. What you don't know, you can't ask for it. And if you ask for it, they don't have that information. My crucial question is when the Secretary of State will amend the treaties with these Caribbean islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u202	We have arrived at the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State has requested a ten-minute suspension, which we would, of course, like to allow him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u203	Mr President, I just needed some time to prepare the answers. I usually do not take time, but I have motions and questions here that are addressed to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of EZ, the Minister of V and J and the Minister of BuHa-OS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u204	You're a privileged person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u205	So we needed a little consultation. Anyway, we shouldn't be sitting here with five of us on behalf of the cabinet either. Wherever possible, I shall give the answer, where it cannot be done, I must refer to a colleague. That will happen once or twice. I'll answer the separate questions first. Then I'll come to the motions. Some questions are related to motions. If that's the case, I'll take it together. I note that Mr Grashoff is actually dissatisfied with the BEPS investigation, because he is asking for a new investigation. Mr Merkies is also dissatisfied, namely about the Vpb research. And he's also asking for a new investigation. It may not always be the right method to ask for a new investigation if the outcome of an investigation does not please. However, I shall come back to Mr Grashoff in a moment to deal with the motions on this subject. To Mr Merkies I say that the country-by-country reporting public in the V and J sphere is indeed going by qualified majority. Mr Ronnes has asked if the Tax Office has received any documents. No, the service did get the names, but it didn't get the documents. That means there really is a need for information. However, it is not always there. We have also been asked whether the Panama Papers have changed tax morals. There's no sign of that because that hasn't been measured yet. Mr Ronnes has also presented me with a case of a loan that is actually equity. Own funds that are actually loans, or the other way around: that just needs to be solved. That is, among other things, the whole OECD package. We're doing part of that now. If it really is a loan, the entire duration can be used under the old scheme. However, if the thing is traded, changed or something like that, it's a new loan. That's how it was done in the meeting. An traded loan is a loan to someone else. So it's a new loan. I also say to Mr Ronnes that it is true that I have confirmed that not everything that can be done is morally correct. Let's say it with greater precision. It is a little too easy to say that tax avoidance is always wrong. Mortgage interest deduction is also tax avoidance. Using the innovation box is also tax avoidance. These are all forms of avoidance intended by the legislator. That's fine. The limit lies in avoidance which is clearly not intended by the legislator. The members are the legislator. If things happen there that have never been the intention here in the Chamber and that everyone knows damn well they are not meant to be, then we have to ask moral questions. That's what I meant. I say to Mr Ronnes that I trust that there is no light between the interpretations. Mr Van Dijck says that everyone with a bit of capital is drawing money away. That's a hundred times too far for me. It is about 200 Dutch addresses. It concerns 50 intermediaries and about 250 cases with a link to the Netherlands. I think it's just nice to know that almost everyone with a bit of power is just paying taxes. That's why it's so bad for a few people to go underneath. That means that tax morals are being undermined for all those who simply pay well. However, let us not pretend that everyone with a little money avoids tax. Saying that is harmful to tax morals and is an insult to all those Dutch people who simply pay taxes. Let us not say that in this Chamber. Mr Van Dijck has asked about the Virgin Islands. We have no treaty with that. We have an information exchange agreement with that, a so-called TIA. We could use that, too. Finally, Mrs De Vries asked: how are we going to implement this CFC and how does it relate to the participation exemption? As I explained in the AO Ecofin, they have quite a few degrees of freedom to do so in a good, decent way. We are committed to the legislative texts as they are in Europe. This means that there are all kinds of options, but all are aimed at looking at what income flows really belong to the daughter. In doing so, there is plenty of room for sensible implementation, as is also meant in the preparation of this story. In addition, there are two routes, as I have just explained. I cannot be very specific about this now, but it will be implemented before 2019. Then we in this Chamber can discuss this in detail. I'll get on the motions. In the Groot/Van Weyenberg motion in part No. 117 states: multinationals become compulsory etc. It's about the "all countries" call. That is a V and J motion in itself, but I have to say the following. If all countries participate in the regular country-by-country reporting, then the tax authorities get all the information they want. This is just about the public part. For the above-mentioned reasons, I advise against the motion, but the regular country-by-country reporting is open to all countries. All countries can have their tax authorities investigate all the data they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u206	The motion in part No. 117 is therefore discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u207	The motion in part No. 117 I don't recommend. On the motions on pieces no. I've already entered 118 and 119.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u208	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u209	That of Mr Grashoff and Mr Merkies is something I would advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u210	The motion in part No. 118 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 119 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u211	On the Merkies/Grashoff motion in part No. 120, I don't have to give advice. Mr Merkies proposes to his colleagues to make a statement. Then I'll keep a proper distance. I'll see what it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u212	You don't want to add an appreciation to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u213	No, that's not appropriate either. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u214	"Speaks..." OK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u215	The cabinet is not called to do anything. The Chamber may or may not give a ruling. The Merkies motion in part No. 121 is not only a V and J motion, but also a motion that I cannot properly oversee. The whistleblower policy does not lend itself to reacting at a time of late in the evening without further information. So I would like to offer that my colleagues from V and J will say something about this before the votes. I can't say anything about that with any sense of purpose. Then I'm really gonna put all the policy areas together. In the Schouten/Great motion in part No. 122 the Treaties for the prevention of double taxation. In line with my previous story, I have said that I find that really premature. Let us first have that list, look at the sanctions and then act in accordance with them. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u216	The motion in part No. 122 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u217	The motion in part No. 123 is located on the grounds of EZ and BuHa-OS. Again, I would like to ask my colleagues to come back to this before the votes in the Chamber, because I cannot see this clearly. There are all kinds of agreements. I'm not talking about that either, so I wanted to ask my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u218	On the motion in part No. 123 follow a further opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u219	The motion in part No. 124 is also in the field of V and J and the Minister of Finance. This motion calls for something that is basically in the legal concepts as they have just been consulted. I therefore consider this to be a policy support and leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u220	Take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u221	No, I think there's a need to vote on this. Mr Van Weyenberg's motion on item No. 125 is about a minimum rate. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u222	The motion in part No. 125 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u223	I would remind the House that we are always doing this loud call for sovereignty in the VAT field. The motion in part No. 126 is about sufficient instruments at V and J et cetera. On behalf of the Minister of V and J, I can promise that this motion will not only be given a Chamber of Justice, but that a letter will eventually be sent after that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u224	The motion in part No. 126 is Court of Justice and there's a letter to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u225	The motion in part No. 127 is about further convergence. What do we mean by that? If that means that we are converging because we want to converge, then sovereignty is playing a part. Convergence is not a goal, but at most a means. If this means, however, that it could mean that we cannot proceed with the implementation of the OECD recommendations, then I must advise against this motion. As I implicitly recognise the last reading in this, I will stick to the recommendation to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u226	The motion in part No. 127 is not recommended. Mr Merkies has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u227	I have a question for clarification. How does the Secretary of State interpret the motion in part No. 126. Does he consider this motion to be a policy implementation? Or is she asking for something extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u228	"Asks the government to investigate whether there is...: that calls for something extra, namely an investigation or there is enough et cetera. I understand that the Minister responsible is prepared to do so. That's why I'm leaving this motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u229	That's clear. That was a further explanation of the motion on item No. 10
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-34.u230	I thank you all for your input, your interest, your commitment, your advice, your presence and your sympathy and for the breathless silence that sometimes fell to the public. The vote on these motions will take place next Tuesday, in life and well-being. At the request of Mr Merkies, therefore, his motion, tabled on 19 May last, was put to the vote, which was stopped (21501-07, No. 1364). This motion is still attached to this set. I shall close this sitting only after I have wished you all not so much a joyful evening of work, but let me say a pleasant conclusion to a working day.
