ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u1	We are discussing legislation, so everyone has the room to intervene, without limiting it in advance. It is very much yours, but you do not consider it an invitation to do so as much as possible. We hope to be able to conclude the debate in good time. First, I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven, who replaces Mrs Leijten and speaks on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. The most worrying thing about the treatment and implementation of the European Tobacco Production Directive is the fact that at least 100 young people are addicted to smoking every day in the Netherlands. Is that right? Does the Secretary of State find that figure shocking, too? With the tobacco legislation we are discussing today, we must take a further step in the right direction. A step towards a Netherlands where fewer and fewer people smoke and fewer and fewer people start smoking. Everything must be aimed at our youth not starting with it. The SP wants to make a full commitment to this. The same applies to supporting people who want to quit smoking. We must not lose sight of the aspect of second-hand smoking, which results in thousands of deaths every year. Today we are talking about the production, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. The SP strongly supports the introduction of stricter rules in these areas. The presentation is a form of advertising for a product to which about 20,000 people die every year in the Netherlands. The less our youth is exposed and the less confrontation with tobacco and tobacco products, the better. I think we all agree. The introduction of the Directive is expected to lead to a reduction in the number of smokers. The question is how much. The Secretary of State says 2%, that's the target by 2020. Is this ambitious enough and can the Secretary of State go into that percentage again? We now have 3.6 million smokers. What should the number of smokers be in absolute numbers by 2020? If we establish that, we can see how many hundreds of thousands of people are going to reduce the number of smokers by 2020. We think that 2% in four years is far too thin. In this way it takes decades for the Netherlands to be smoke-free. What is the specific purpose of the Secretary of State? At least 100 young people start smoking every day. We have to prevent that. One of the measures that is suitable for this is the introduction of complete plain packaging: no packages with beautiful colors that give smoking a nice touch. A first step is to choose to neutralize 65% of the packaging. The SP wants to go to 100%. The Secretary of State said earlier that the first research results from Australia seemed positive, but that no conclusions could be drawn from them. Longarts Wanda de Kanter fights the Secretary of State's vision and says that plain packaging is indeed effective in Australia. When we look at the numbers, they speak to her advantage. 12% still smokes in Australia. That's half the average in the Netherlands. Well, that's got to give you some thought. Why can't it be there and why can't it be in the Netherlands? The Secretary of State also said at that point that he does not know what the long-term effects of plain packaging are. The Secretary of State awaits a lawsuit brought by a cigarette manufacturer in England against the 100% neutral packages, the plain packaging. So we're gonna wait and see. I do not understand why, especially since on 23 December last the European Court of Justice ruled that plain packaging can simply be introduced. In order to achieve this, we have tabled an amendment. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to that statement and to ask whether we should not simply go ahead and introduce plain packaging. Does the Secretary of State think that plain packaging can be counterproductive? I wouldn't know how to do that. Or is it a measure against tobacco manufacturers' sore feet? We're not gonna let industry influence us, are we? The SP says take that marketing drug away from them! Do it for our children! The Secretary of State will advise on new research results. What results does the Secretary of State want to see before he opts for 100% plain packaging? How many clues to the fact that this is a good development does he still want? Then I come to another measure: the display ban, so that tobacco is sold out of sight. It was previously agreed that the Secretary of State will conclude a covenant with the industry on this matter. Those negotiations should deliver results by 1 July 2016. In responding to our input, I read that we will not be informed about this until the end of 2016. Has the negotiation period expired or does it take so long to make the agreements public? What steps have been taken? Are we going to make it to July 1, 2016? Should the negotiations lead to nothing or agreements that do not go sufficiently far, is the Secretary of State prepared to impose a display ban? After all, he also concludes that exposure to tobacco displays seems to increase the chance for young people to start smoking. It is likely that a display ban will contribute in the longer term to reducing the number of smokers. I have a motion on this in preparation. Can the Secretary of State also comment on the following? He writes in December that an important condition for the CBL and supermarkets is that the other retail outlets of tobacco products participate, for example in stations or along the highway. In November, the tobacco retail trade and its supporters announced that they did not feel that way. Why didn't the Secretary of State report that to the Chamber when it was already known in November? Why did he not report that the condition of the supermarket industry was not met and that it therefore seems to be a mission impossible? How do we really make less smokers? It is very simple: by making it more difficult and starting with limiting the number of tobacco outlets. But reducing the number of points of sale does not really involve sanctions. However, I read that the Secretary of State regards this proposal as rather radical and that there are economic consequences. Well, it's a big deal, isn't it? But we're talking about the health of many people, aren't we? We're talking about the health of our children, aren't we? Again, every day 100 people, 100 children, start smoking. Surely that must be more important than economic consequences? The Secretary of State is going to conduct an investigation into enforcement at an age when selling via a vending machine. In the absence of better compliance, it will have consequences, but enforcement and compliance are farce. Fewer points of sale: this will reduce the availability of tobacco products. That also makes it much easier to maintain. The SP has therefore tabled an amendment aimed at banning the sale of tobacco products via vending machines. This measure is extremely important, even for young people under the age of 18. The vending machine makes access to tobacco products easy for them. Again, 100 children start smoking every day. The Directive requires that administrative sanctions should be high enough to offset the financial advantage envisaged. I find this a strange formulation. That doesn't seem like a punishment. The financial advantage is neutralized, but you're not going backwards. Shouldn't sanctions and fines scare off? Apparently, the current fines do not. It's a punishment that just doesn't make you any better; it doesn't make you any worse. I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State on the level of fines and their effectiveness. What, for example, shows that the fines we now have are working properly? I'm going into the age verification system. Punishment is only possible if it is properly enforced and if there is a proper enforcement system. For example, with an age verification system you can check if someone is 18 years old or younger or older. The Secretary of State has long promoted the ID scanners. In doing so, he opted for a system that is fraud-sensitive and ineffective. That is evident from his answer to our parliamentary questions. Now they also appear to be in breach of the Personal Data Protection Act. What will the Secretary of State do now? In a recent broadcast by Argos, it was stated that the VWS Ministry did not disclose part of the correspondence requested by Argos after a WOB procedure. This was about the age control of tobacco sales. It had to do with the report entitled Age verification in sight, of the Trimbos Institute. Certain documents have not been made public. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if this is true. Does he still want to make this public and send it to the Chamber? Argos has reported that, when the Trimbos Institute's report was drawn up, a main conclusion was watered down at the request of the Ministry, a main conclusion stating that the Ageviewers control system was the only one that came out well. Can the Secretary of State confirm this message from Argos? How can a Chamber function if the Ministry remembers its important information? Is it not, by such a practice, that I am referring to the influence of the Trimbos Institute on the conclusions contained in the report on the integrity of the researchers? I therefore ask the Secretary of State whether the correspondence can be sent to the Chamber by e-mail and the draft or draft versions of that report. The illicit trade in tobacco products should also be penalised. However, we do not have to expect anything in this area for a number of years. After all, there is a lack of action in the field of dealing with illegal trade and the Secretary of State does not want to do much to tackle cross-border sales. The Netherlands has even criticised in Europe a ban on cross-border sales under the guise of poor enforcement. Is the Secretary of State proud of this result? Instead of stressing the importance of addressing the number of smokers or whatever, the Netherlands should stress that it does not want a ban on cross-border sales. Nor does the Secretary of State do much cross-border care because he is afraid that this will increase illegal trade. Is the idea behind this to prevent illegal trade or is it not really a matter of doing something about cross-border sales? Is it not desirable to prohibit online sales? I'm comparing it to what we do when we sell cannabis. Is that possible and desirable? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I have a motion in preparation on that point. The Secretary of State states that it is not appropriate to bring the rules into force before 20 May 2016 when the Directive enters into force, as the European Commission still has some implementing acts to adopt. What are the implementing acts? What does this mean for the bill we're discussing today? The ministerial arrangement on package leaflets is also not final. Why isn't she ready yet? What is already known about this? Shouldn't we include this part in the treatment? I now turn to another subject: the electronic cigarette. The warning was chosen: "This product contains the highly addictive nicotine. Its use is not recommended for non-smokers." Do I understand that electronic cigarettes are not recommended for people who do smoke? That's weird, because it's a harmful product. If e-cigarettes lead to fewer smokers, wouldn't the producer have to prove this? Then these cigarettes should also be provided under the regime of the Medicines Act and not on the free market. It has to be said, the secretary of state is taking steps with the e-cigarette. Maybe he can do something about this, too? If he thinks it helps bring down the number of smokers and that it's bad for people, why doesn't he choose the same warning as for ordinary cigarettes: "Smoking is deadly, Stop Now"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u3	The latter is a proposal from Mr Van Gerven for the electronic cigarette?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u4	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u5	I would like to ask Mr Van Gerven if he is familiar with the enormous amount of e-mails that the VWS committee has received in recent days from people who had often smoked their whole lives and sometimes could not even get out of their words because of all their coughs. They wrote what it meant to them when they were given the opportunity to switch to the electronic cigarette. But apparently Mr Van Gerven has not read those e-mails. I ask him to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u6	Of course I read those e-mails. They once again show how terrible this addiction is and that we need to reduce it as much as possible. The point is simply whether this e-cigarette is the appropriate means of doing so. Of course I've read all those e-mails. If Mrs Agema of the PVV believes that smoking is an addiction and that we should get rid of these cigarettes, I invite her to support all the amendments and motions of the SP, and for example those of Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. I think that's very good. Let's talk about the electronic cigarette. If it works, just let the producers apply for registration from the pharmaceutical authority in order to get it registered as a medicinal product.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u7	This is really amazing to me. We're talking about a legal product. The cigarette is legal, so is the electronic cigarette. We've received so many personal stories. This was not an e-mail bombing where everyone had pressed "enter" to send the same story. No, they were personal stories of people who had smoked for 40 years, sometimes since they were 9 years old, who couldn't get out of their words, and for whom a whole new world opened up when they could vaporize with the electronic cigarette. The SP doesn't have a message about that at all. What would happen to the cost of care if all smokers switched to that electronic cigarette, Mr. Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u8	Listen, that electronic cigarette is a brand-new market, where a lot of money is made by those who produce it. If those producers consider it to be working, they should in particular apply for a registration to register it as a medicinal product. I've read the e-mails of these people, who would love to get rid of their addiction. The electronic cigarette has the side effect that people can also become addicted to it. She could also be a stepping stone for new addicts. Mrs Agema is not talking about that route, and I want to avoid that coûte que coûte. If people want to get rid of smoking, then there are the appropriate channels of aid programmes, the assisting sector and also all kinds of tools such as nicotine patches. They can also be used. I think that's a safe way. It is a product that is unsafe and unhealthy. Who can be happy that non-smokers are going to use the electronic cigarette? Mrs. Agema can't prevent that. This is a side effect that should also be prevented from being coûte que coûte. Nicotine addiction is unhealthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u9	That's clear. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u10	Next item. Can the Secretary of State explain his plans for the communication route more precisely? Is there, for example, a mass media component in the approach? And how is second-hand smoke handled? Smoking shouldn't be attractive. That also means no tasty smells or flavors. For example, vanilla is banned as an added flavor, but menthol will not be banned until 2020. Why has it not been chosen to ban all additives, all additives that contribute to addiction or health deterioration immediately? I think it is a good development that all data and potentially negative effects of products are recorded in the system. However, I do not understand why we do not strive to develop a single system. The parties are free to develop a common system, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State why we do not require it. Why is the way in which parties are going to shape the system, even without obligation? If we find that the system is not properly maintained, Member States are likely to impose requirements. Secretary of State, I think this is a very weak bite. The Dutch Food and War Authority will monitor this. How can we monitor this properly if there is no framework to assess it properly and if there are no rules and we fully rely on industry? The systems do not automatically become public. Who does have access to it? Just the companies themselves? The Dutch Food and War Authority? VWS? All of us? I'd like to get an explanation of that. Can't there be one uncontested system? Figures from TobaccoNo show that the Netherlands is at least making a financial effort to prevent tobacco. We spend €0.12 per capita for almost €2 per capita in Iceland. I admit that there are fewer people living in Iceland, but there are also €1.50 per capita in Switzerland. That is ten times as much as in the Netherlands. As with no other addiction, tobacco prevention pays off. That is why we are also proposing to add 1% of tobacco tax revenue to the tobacco prevention budget. I shall also table a motion to that effect. I'm rounding up. 100 kids start their smoking addiction every day. This must be the reason for an effective preventive approach, with a substantial increase in the budget for tobacco prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. Every day about 125 underage children start smoking. The SP mentioned about about 100 children a day. Whether there's 100 or 125, there's just 100 or 125 too many. It's worrying. All efforts must be made to prevent a new generation from becoming addicted. When you start smoking as a teenager, it's much harder to quit later. Fortunately, there is no longer any discussion about the risks of smoking. Smoking is very bad for your health. Every year 19,000 people die in the Netherlands from diseases caused by smoking. And I'm not even talking about the number of people who die as a result of second-hand smoking. Last year, a number of important steps have been taken to reduce tobacco consumption in our society. I am thinking of the ban on smoking in the catering industry and of the agreement on a display ban that the Secretary of State is now working on, following a motion from the Labour Party and the Christian Union. Very good, because seeing tobacco does smoking. But much more can happen and it is necessary, because smoking is not tough and addiction is not a free choice. Let us work together to ensure that our young people grow up healthy, free of addictions. Today we are discussing the implementation of the European Tobacco Products Directive. My group is generally very pleased about this because this directive supports the policy of discouragement. One part of the Directive states that two-thirds of tobacco product packaging must be covered with health warnings, scary pictures and information on services that help to stop smoking. The addition of characteristic flavourings is also restricted. That is all very well, but as far as my group is concerned, the implementation of the directive can be improved. I have tabled a number of amendments to this effect. For example, I read in the directive that the tobacco industry itself should set up a system to collect information on suspected harmful effects of smoking. This is the butcher who approves his own flesh. By comparison, NAM, the Dutch Petroleum Company, has the task by law to investigate the consequences of gas extraction. A few days ago, the Chamber discussed this in this Chamber. We see that this task to the NAM results in investigations that are insufficient or investigations that are not carried out at all. Have we learned nothing from this? We are not going to allow this to happen in the tobacco industry, are we? And we saddle the NVWA, who has to oversee this, with an impossible assignment. The establishment of a research system by the tobacco industry is required by the European directive and we cannot deviate from it either. Let us at least lay down rules for this at AMvB. I have tabled an amendment on this subject and hope, of course, that the Secretary of State will respond positively. There is a provision in the law that business or manufacturing data need not be disclosed if that does not outweigh the importance of disclosure. So, dusts that make smoking attractive must be recorded, but if this harms the business interest, then it doesn't have to. There is no interest in disclosure other than the importance of public health. For my group, public health is always more important than business interests. I have therefore tabled an amendment to amend this article. The law also regulates the advertising of tobacco products. Advertising is prohibited in principle, but then there are quite a few exceptions. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, advertising in tobacco shops is fair, but certainly not in food shops and department stores. That is why I have tabled an amendment to remove the possibility of tobacco advertising in food shops and department stores from the law. The Secretary of State is working on a display ban in food shops, but would advertising be allowed? That's contradictory. I can therefore only imagine that the Secretary of State is embracing this amendment. I notice that the law is full of AMvBs, ministerial regulations and so on. There's still a lot of work to be done. Is that gonna happen for the next year? It seems like a fine assignment for the Secretary of State in the last year of the cabinet. I'd like a response. What else is the Secretary of State going to do this year, or is he done with his tobacco discouragement policy? I read in the written replies that the implementation of the directive is expected to lead to 2% fewer smokers by 2020, in addition to the possible effects of the tobacco discouragement policy that has already been implemented. What is the ambition of this cabinet? Does the Secretary of State dare to make it concrete? I have mentioned several times the importance of children growing up in a healthy environment. What about the ambition for non-smoking schools and non-smoking schoolyards? I know the Secretary of State is talking to schools about this, but is this soft hand working enough? According to the latest figures I could find out, 53% of secondary schools and only 6% of MBO are completely non-smoking. That's too slow. To my regret, a motion by the Christian Union and the Labour Party to introduce a stick behind the door was voted away. That is why I have tabled an amendment to agree that all schools in the Netherlands will be completely non-smoking from 2020. I see that schools want to, but need a little support in the back. Then let this be that support. Plain packaging is not introduced because the positive result from Australia regarding plain packaging may be influenced by other elements of tobacco discouragement policy. The tobacco industry in the US and UK has also brought legal proceedings against planned plain packaging by the government. The Secretary of State points to these developments abroad. Of course, we need to see what we can learn from that. However, the European Court has meanwhile rejected a claim from tobacco manufacturers. Moreover, we, the Secretary of State and the House of Representatives, have a responsibility for the health of Dutch society. The Directive has chosen requirements for the appearance of packaging. Plain packaging is, of course, at odds with that. Will the Secretary of State at least keep the Chamber informed about the situation abroad and keep plain packaging as a real option for the near future, for example if it appears that the new directive is not working properly? When will the effects of the directive be assessed? Additives will soon be banned. However, menthol as an additive is subject to a transitional period until 2020, because I quote from the explanatory memorandum that gives consumers time to look for alternatives. That is a very wonderful remark from the Secretary of State, because additives are no longer allowed after 2020. What alternative does the government mean? To be honest, I think that the transitional period is far too long and I have a motion on this. Earlier, I asked for a lot of attention for smoking rooms. Of course, it can't be that the smoking room is some kind of pub in the pub. In practice, we see not only smoking in smoking rooms, but also serving snacks and drinks, putting down gaming tables, etc. That can't be the intention. I hear from catering companies that they experience improper competition. Not everyone has the room to create a separate opportunity for smokers. I have a motion ready to call on the Secretary of State to amend the Decision implementing Tobacco Act in such a way that smoking is allowed only in smoking rooms. That's what they're meant for. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to say that he is going to work on this and a motion is not necessary at all. My group has spoken on numerous occasions about the number of points of sale. We prefer to see sales limited to tobacco specialty shops. In our country you can buy bread in about 9,000 places. However, there are now some 30,000 sales points of tobacco. How many times has the Secretary of State told you not to work towards a new standard and that's that you don't smoke? Then it doesn't help if you can buy tobacco products in 30,000 places in our country. Tobacco is everywhere. There is a sale to minors, because the NVWA cannot possibly control all these 30,000 outlets. There are also the tobacco vending machines in the catering industry. These are places where you are not allowed to smoke, but where a vending machine is covered with advertising with only one message: come, buy a package and light a cigarette. Will the Secretary of State also restrict sales in the catering industry? I am very curious about the SP amendment on this point. The Secretary of State replied to SP's questions that the sale of wine in bookshops is contrary to the Drink and Horeca Act. That's very interesting. Why should you not be allowed to sell wine in a bookstore and tobacco? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State which justifies the distinction in legislation. If we do not allow blurring, mixing functions, when selling alcohol, why do we allow tobacco? I wonder what the Secretary of State can think of to answer this question. Finally, I would like to draw attention to good information, information to our teenagers on the harmful effects of smoking and second-hand smoking. I read that the Secretary of State will launch a new campaign in 2016. Very good. Does he want to involve KWF Cancer Control and the KNMG and also the evaluation of the NIX18 campaign? I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mr. Chairman. Smoking is bad for health. That is why the D66 Group has already said in previous debates that it is in favour of a firm policy on tobacco discouragement. Because the facts don't lie about it. Of the adults who smoke, 80% started smoking for their 18th year of life. In 2013, 9% of young people smoked daily. The percentage of people smoking tobacco is falling in the Netherlands. That seems positive, but the use of the e-cigarette is increasing. I have said before that we are not yet here and that there is still a lot of work to be done. I will continue to say that, and the Secretary of State is happy to agree with my group in this respect. The EU directive and the legislative proposal before us represent an important step in protecting our young people from the dangers of tobacco. Temptations, such as attractive packaging and glorifying flavors, are restricted. This is a good development, because young people often do not know that menthol, one of those "tastes," numbs the upper part of the airways and thus masks the roughness of tobacco. My group has already said that information on the dangers of smoking must be central. This requires good information, to achieve long-term effects and to realise that smoke-free generation. We want to get to such a smoke-free generation. This information should be regulated at national and European level. D66 aims to prevent consumers and producers from circumventing effective measures by deviating to other Member States. The EU directive is taking a big step in this direction. That is why D66 is in favour of the implementation of the Directive. I have already stressed the importance of information and information campaigns. My group also asked for this in the written round. Is the introduction of the age limit in this legislative proposal linked to specific information or a campaign? In the reply it was read that it was still necessary to consider how this would be designed. That's why I'm asking again. How's the Secretary of State gonna shape that campaign? What does he come up with in this area this year, apart from the campaigns that are already going on? The current legislative proposal regulates more than requested in the EU directive. This choice brings consistency in Dutch policy. D66 acknowledges that the harmful effects of the e-cigarette are less than the harmful effects of tobacco. However, this does not mean that the e-cigarette does not cause any damage at all. D66 also wants to prevent the e-cigarette from encouraging young people to start smoking. My group is therefore pleased that this e-cigarette is covered by the Tobacco Act. The Directive focuses on importers, producers, distributors and retailers. But the directive goes further by making it compulsory to set a 65% standard for packages. This means that 65% of the imprint of the package must consist of combined health warnings, which actually means that there are scary pictures and texts on the package. This measure focuses strongly on discouragement policies, specifically for young people. The Secretary of State has already indicated that short-term effects have been scientifically demonstrated. The present packages also contain warnings about health consequences. Can the Secretary of State say how much of the print we're talking about? And to what extent does this imprint contain information on the effects on health? Will the Secretary of State measure the effects of the introduction and implementation of the European Directive in the Netherlands? My group would like to see these effects measured. It has already been said a number of times that within three years the number of smokers in Australia has fallen by 15%. In addition to increasing excise duties, plain packaging was introduced. In the Netherlands there are professors who say that these terrifying pictures may not have the desired effect. They say that scaring people only helps if they think that there is a solution that is feasible for themselves. Scaring could lead to defensive behavior, fear these professors. They propose to make the packages boring. For example, advise on stopping smoking so that smokers are encouraged to quit in a positive way. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about that. After all, that is a form of plain packaging. Moreover, there has been some confusion within the EU about this. Italy thought that the aim of this EU directive was to introduce plain packaging through legislative proposals. As Mrs Faber said, this is also the subject of legal proceedings. Does the Secretary of State have any idea how other European countries are opposed to plain packaging? Does he find plain packaging an option in the long term? I will go back to those professors in Maastricht who say that there are good ways to get rid of this nicotine addiction, especially through effective forms of help and guidance. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that it is precisely for this reason that the cessation of smoking programmes should be included in the basic package? In 2013, the Secretary of State indicated that he was wondering whether those frightening plates should also apply to pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco and cigars. He was wondering if that was proportional. Can he tell us how he sees it now? I understand that Article 11 of the EU Directive exempts packaging of tobacco products other than cigarettes, shag and water pipe tobacco from combined warnings. I also understand that our neighbours intend to implement that article one-on-one. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? How does he look at the choice of neighbouring countries and the possible border effects? Finally, I have a question about the AMvBs. I'd like to know what we can expect as a room. What does the Secretary of State intend to do about this in concrete terms? What choices is he going to make in that? I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. How nice to see you in that chair!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u14	The joy is completely mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u15	That's great. Mr. Chairman. Of course it is good to discourage people and especially young people from starting smoking. Let me say first of all that the Freedom Party also wants as few young people as possible to start smoking and as many adults as possible to stop smoking. We are only opposed to Brussels intervention through this directive. We don't know where it stops either. Who's to say the horrible signs of inflamed gums and contaminated lungs are gonna make people stop smoking later? Everyone knows smoking is bad for health, right? What will Brussels do next? Are we going to put a box of chocolates on the order of Brussels with a warning sticker for obesity? Will Brussels soon demand that we put on candies a picture of a rotten teeth, or on a bottle of whiskey a picture of a fatty liver? These labelling rules are far too heavy for my group. And where does it stop? Even without Brussels intervention, we are not in favour of it. We are not in favour of a 65% health warning, a ban on flavors, health warnings on non-smoking tobacco products, the need for new types of tobacco products to comply in advance with the directive, the possibility for Member States to prohibit cross-border sales and the equalisation of fines with those for alcoholic beverages, provided that this can be done at the old level. I would remind the Secretary of State that we are still talking about a legal product. I also pointed this out to him this morning in the debate on drugs. While there is a war on tobacco going on in our country, young people are going on hard drugs massively. I wonder where the priorities lie in this house. What I find too crazy for words is the proposal to sell a legal product under the counter. Smokers are thrown away as criminals and shopkeepers as dealers. Isn't all this going too far? I am also against national headlines, such as plain packaging and a display ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u16	I didn't think Mrs. Agema's story was so bad at first. She said: I am in favour of young people not starting smoking and I am also in favour of adults stopping smoking; so that in the Netherlands as few people as possible smoke and if possible not one. But then she holds a whole tirade against all kinds of plans and all kinds of proposals which are precisely designed to reduce the number of people who smoke and also that the number of children who smoke has just been said: every day 100 children are hitting smoke-addicted cyclists. Mrs. Agema can keep a tirade that's all wrong, but how does she solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u17	I have just made a comment on this. While the SP is working on this war on tobacco and war on alcohol, at the same time a war on drugs has been lost. We had a debate this morning on drugs, which shows that a majority of young people are on hard drugs in our country, but the SP is doing a display ban! Shouldn't the SP even shift attention? That's the point I'm worried about when we talk about young people. Of course, young people should not smoke behind a shed like they used to, but pills are now being worked in; they are hard drugs, illegal products. The only thing I would like to say to the SP is: you open the whole cabinet; you seize all the possibilities, but why don't you just ban smoking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u18	I would like to look at the reports which state that the majority of young people are on hard drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u19	This morning it was about the Trimbos Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u20	The fact that one day a pill is taken is quite different from the fact that one is systematically on hard drugs and addicted and that half of the young people do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u21	The SP is right here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr Van Gerven has the floor, Mrs Agema. After that, you're welcome to respond. Ask your question, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u23	There's no one for hard drugs. No one here in politics in the Netherlands says: we should encourage that; that's okay. So Mrs. Agema shouldn't be arriving on that escape route. I would ask Mrs Agema just to go into the fact that the PVV claims that she is in favour of a tobacco discouragement policy, but that she then throws all the proposals to discourage tobacco into the wastebasket and, therefore, simply leaves that addiction to exist. 100 kids get addicted every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr Van Gerven continues to talk for a very long time, but I am surprised that my colleague here in the House of Representatives is playing down the fact that young people are going massively on hard drugs. We had a debate on this this morning. The Trimbos Institute came out at 60%. I believe that illegal hard drugs should be dealt with harder than a legal tobacco product. I think that the House of Representatives should shift its priority. For the rest, the SP can have its views. I'm old school. I'm like, "Smoke, we'll figure it out together." We're having a good talk about it. You convince people you love to quit smoking. There are also just people who quit. I quit on my own. People just stop smoking without plain packaging and without all those things pulling the SP out of the closet. If the SP does all these things, then I call her to the following: just ban smoking and make it an illegal product, just like those hard drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u25	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u26	I just posted an interruption about the fumes and all the personal stories we got about the e-mail. Those stories were sent to us and not to the Ministry. I'd like to hand them over to you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe the Secretary of State can respond to that. If he does not, I can also imagine that he will come back to that later in a letter. I find these personal stories of people who actually got back a very large part of their lives after they stopped smoking tobacco and switched to the electronic cigarette, extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u27	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u28	No, but on the image that comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u29	So it is not intended that he responds to every belief or testimony, but to the general picture. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to take that with him in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u30	I shall now turn to the subject which has so deeply annoyed me in this discussion for so long. On 24 June 2014, the State Secretary confirmed that the water pipe is covered by the Tobacco Act and if there is no nicotine in it, it still falls under the Tobacco Directive and therefore under the smoking ban in the hospitality sector. That was on June 24, 2014. Last year we also had a debate on this. The Secretary of State then confirmed on the basis of documents that a few fines had been handed out. Yet you see more shishalounges opening the doors every time. It is materially impossible for shishalounges to exist if you have a smoking ban in the hospitality industry. But there's not one closed; there's only more to open. My question to the Secretary of State is how he is going to solve this in a country where small cafés have had difficulty with the smoking ban and have all gone along with it, since the exception for small cafés no longer exists. How is it that more and more shishalounges are coming? It can't be material! The bong is covered by the Tobacco Act. Even if there is no nicotine, they are covered by the Tobacco Products Directive. This was confirmed by the Secretary of State in the summer of 2014. When do those shishalounges close? I'm gonna close up with what I just said. I'm old school. We'll figure it out together. I'm not in favour of smokers being criminal and selling their dealers. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the legislation we are discussing today. It is good that the tobacco directive is transposed into national law. In order to prevent children and young people from smoking, these tough measures may be taken as far as the CDA is concerned. The ban on flavourings, additives and other misleading products suggesting that there are also healthy aspects of smoking should be introduced by the CDA today rather than tomorrow. The CDA also supports the alignment of requirements to e-cigarettes, including the increase of the age limit to 18 years. Of course, the combined health warning that should be on the packaging can also count on the support of the CDA. As stated in last June's AO on tobacco discouragement policy, the Secretary of State may be even more ambitious as far as the CDA is concerned. It's all about different things. Tobacco manufacturers make every effort to make the packaging of their products look as cheerful as possible. As far as bright colours and cool pictures are concerned, we are now even experimenting with packaging with LED lights and sound effects. Does the Secretary of State share the view that this is not a desirable development? Is it true that this kind of beautification is mainly aimed at ensuring that children get a positive impression of smoking and are therefore less comprehensible for information and will start smoking faster? The CDA would like this bill to include at least the possibility of going into plain packaging in the future. The CDA would like to see all these new beautifications with lights and sound effects from this moment on. When it comes to the beautifications that have just been mentioned, the development that is evidently coming, it is good to note in this legislative proposal that at least this cannot happen in the coming period. That's why the CDA, together with the PvdA, is considering whether we can include a slightly broader basis for the AMvB in the law to settle that in advance. That amendment is still under development because it is legally listening closely, but we hope to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible so that everyone can read the amendment. The Secretary of State himself says about plain packaging: I am not doing so at the moment, but I am only doing so when the combined health warning does not deliver sufficient results. But what is not enough? What result of the combined health warning is he satisfied with? What consideration factors does he use for this? The Secretary of State explicitly chooses to exclude large cigars currently on the market from the obligation of the combined health warning. The reason for this is that mainly a small group of older consumers smoke these cigars. Does that mean that the Secretary of State refers to the members of the Upper House? Of course, that's what I'm talking about. The Secretary of State does introduce the combined health warning for large cigars if the volume changes or more young people start smoking them. But how many older people smoke these cigars now and how many do the young people smoke? The Secretary of State must know that when he comes to this decision. When does the Secretary of State consider a cigar to be a "big" cigar? Can he indicate exactly how many millimeters such a cigar is? Are these cigars less harmful, so there is no need for a warning? And I have one final question on this: how did the Secretary of State come up with this idea? Because in the original bill that went into consultation, this was not included. Several studies have shown that it is plausible that a long-term display ban can contribute to a reduction in the number of smokers. The CDA would like entrepreneurs to take their own responsibility here, starting with places where children are often confronted with power walls. That is why last year the CDA supported the motion of the Christian Union and the PvdA to conclude a covenant with supermarkets. The deadline set in the motion for concluding that agreement has now gone to 1 July. The supermarkets now also demand that the other retail outlets of tobacco products be included in the covenant. It started out so nicely. I saw another huge press release from a number of supermarkets that said that they were going to contribute to public health and that they were going to prevent young people from smoking. However, now that we are a little further in the process, the deadline is shifting, complicating demands are being made and everyone suddenly has to go along. What is the State Secretary's estimate of the possibility of reaching a covenant at all? Which stick behind the door is he planning to use if the sector itself doesn't come out? Following the motion of the PvdA, D66 and the CDA, the Secretary of State has now indicated that he is going to address the lack of knowledge about the harmful effects of second-hand smoking. It is good to see that the Secretary of State supports the campaign Towards a smoke-free generation of the Alliance Netherlands Smoke-free. It is also good that he has said that he will pay attention to pregnant women who continue smoking during their pregnancy. Today we have seen the first result, at least by press release. It is good that the Secretary of State wants to take the first steps here on this day. However, I still have a few questions about the information campaign. International studies show that these types of campaigns are the most effective if... I would now like to use the word 'crossmedial', Mr President, but as a former teacher you may have a good Dutch translation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u32	Maybe you could say "different media."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u33	I like that. Something is cross-media when different media are used. These campaigns are most effective if they are conducted with the use of different media and for a long time. These information campaigns really only make sense if they are long-term and if different types of media are used properly. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. Can we assume that he's going to use that information campaign for a really long time, despite the likely end, you never know about the cabinet period in 2017? Is he really planning on recording this for several years? Can we also assume that it will not be an information campaign with just a few leaflets, but that new types of media will be viewed and used, such as social media, Instagram and all the other new opportunities with which young people communicate and where we can make good use of young people? In the replies to the actions aimed at VMBO students, the Secretary of State refers in particular to the NIX18 campaign. Can the Secretary of State confirm that this target group is also largely aimed at increasing knowledge? Especially in the VMBO category and in the MBO students we see that the number of young people who smoke, also long-term, is many times greater than that of pupils who sit in other schools. A very specific approach is therefore needed. I'm about to finish. The Secretary of State has indicated that in 2016 he will draw attention to the support offer and the additional support he makes available to develop smoke-free schools. What kind of support should we think about? In short, there are a number of very good measures here that can help young people not start smoking. Any young person who doesn't start smoking is a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u34	Before you leave the Chamber, there will be another interruption by Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u35	The CDA talked about the cross-media campaigns, different campaigns towards the media, while the question was how to reach young people as effectively as possible to prevent them from smoking. The resources available for this purpose are quite limited. This brings TobaccoNo to €0.12 per person in the Netherlands. Does the CDA agree with the SP's proposal to add 1% of tobacco excise duties to the "pot tobacco prevention" in order to step up this type of initiative with a view to significantly reducing smoking among young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u36	In my opinion, the CDA has advocated a prevention fund with Mrs Dijkstra of D66. They have even tabled a motion to see if this could be developed, indeed with the proceeds of excise duties. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State said at that time that he would not want to begin. The idea is very sympathetic. I don't know if it should be 1% or anything. The CDA has previously indicated that it is interesting to develop that idea and to assess its feasibility. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State has subtly shot that off, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u37	Clear. A follow-up question from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u38	The CDA's answer is nice. In the second term, we shall table a motion. Perhaps the Secretary of State will develop other thoughts. We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u39	I almost thought Mr Van Gerven would say that it was nice that the Secretary of State had shot it because it now gives him the chance to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u40	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u41	Who knows what else good this motion can do to blossom. Mrs. Dik-Faber, you want to post another interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u42	I'll come back to the last sentences of the CDA regarding the support offer to make non-smoking schools. How important is it to the CDA that schools and schoolyards become smoke-free?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u43	The aim of smoking-free schoolyards fully supports the CDA. I only know that the Christian Union and the CDA differ on the means of opinion. I think you've previously filed a motion to legalize it. We were not in favour of this at the time, but of all the other support measures that the Secretary of State has. That is why I am asking you explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u44	That motion didn't make it because the CDA wasn't in favour of it. That was particularly unfortunate, because the Secretary of State and the Minister of Education had to take stock of the possibilities of creating some kind of stick behind the door. I see that schools want to, but also really need some kind of blackbird in the sense that they want to be able to say: they have to do it and that is why we do it here. That gives parents and students a stronger position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u45	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u46	If these support measures work well, for example, we can agree to work with each other, so that schools are smoke-free by 2020. Is it a passable way for the CDA to set a deadline and to actively support schools in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u47	That motion also mentioned legislative measures, perhaps not in the operative part, but in the recitals. That was the reason for the CDA not to support her. In fact, I am very confident that this Secretary of State and his colleague from OCW are really considering how to get schools involved. I think it is very nice that schools have been raising awareness in recent years of the fact that they actually have an exemplary role to play. That's especially true in high schools. In a number of other schools you can see that things are still quite slow. I'd like to hear what opportunities the Secretary of State still sees. It seems that Mrs Dik-Faber has also tabled a motion on this point. We're just gonna take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u48	Thank you. This concludes your first term. I call Mrs Volp. She speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mr. Chairman. That is what we need in the fight against tobacco. Sometimes we have to hold that breath longer than is right for us. In the past period we have taken steps. I refer to the increase in age, the ban in the catering industry and the motion on the Covenant on display ban submitted for the summer. It's small steps and it can be harder, it has to be harder, but the ones with the longest breath eventually win. The number of young smokers is slowly decreasing. Unfortunately, the number of young starting smokers is still alarmingly high. The implementation of the measures in the EU Directive is yet another small step towards making cigarettes less attractive and preventing young people from starting smoking. My party wants to take responsibility for a new, smoke-free generation. We see that the Secretary of State does and has done so in the past period. Sometimes that went with some slight pressure from the Chamber, but it was also the removal of late maintenance, because that was indeed the case. It's not normal for young people to smoke. We shouldn't think it's normal for parents to light a cigarette in front of their kids. We must make every effort to ensure that everyone is given an equal opportunity to grow up smoking-free and healthy, without constantly being confronted with the attractively presented offer of tobacco. I have a 13-year-old son who thinks smoking at this age is extremely stupid and stupid. Still, I'm worried about him when he's 16, 17 years old. Let alone if he goes to college, where smoking is part of the fun. He grows up in a non-smoking environment. His school and the schoolyard are smoke-free. On the sidewalk in front of the school, however, it is smoked by older students. If he's on the PlayStation too much, I sometimes threaten that like the smoking ban and the ban on alcohol under 18 years old, I'm also going to implement a game ban under 18 years old. That works very well for a very long time, but I also know that legislation alone does not work. Laws provide frameworks, but we need a coherent package of measures. There is also a need for social support and support from the field. In that respect, the note we received from VNO-NCW yesterday was another missed opportunity. I believe that the basis of support should and can play a major role in the realisation of a comprehensive package of smoke-disturbance measures. I see that my adopted motion on the introduction of a display ban has led to the movement of parties who can actually provide support, albeit under slight compulsion. Smoke goods are no longer in sight in the supermarkets. Once again, I invite all the other tobacco salesmen to join us. When I take my kids to the supermarket, instead of the animal tags at the cash register, I prefer that my kids are not affected by the display of beautiful packages of junk in them. It's good to see that steps are being taken. The Secretary of State leads the tango, just to stay in the wording that we used in the previous VAO, but it is not without obligation as far as I am concerned. He states in his letter that he wants to make further arrangements. I'm sorry to hear that. If that is not enough, I still believe that additional legislation is needed on that point. Another, very nice, development is the ban on the e-cigarette under 18 years old. I argued a long time ago that the age limit of 18 years should also apply to e-cigarettes. It's nice that this is within reach now. Soon, hopefully, we will be back here when the ban will apply to e-cigarettes without nicotine, because as far as I and my party are concerned, it is simple: anything that looks like a cigarette or an e-cigarette is not suitable for young people. I, like my colleagues, have received many e-mails in recent days from dampers, ex-smokers who have been wiped off their tobacco addiction with the help of the e-cigarette. Mrs. Agema already referred to it. Let me say first of all that I'm very happy that they're done with their addiction. I would like to do so, especially since I have seen too many times in the past as a general practitioner and still see the negative effects of smoking on health. Let me be very clear. I support the demands made by the Secretary of State on the product and on the age limit. The product should be safe. As long as it has not been proven beyond doubt that the e-cigarette has added value in replacing the ordinary cigarette, we must be careful. Above all, we must prevent it from being a hip alternative to young people and a top-up to smoking tobacco. Nicotine addiction and tobacco death! We also know the reports of RIVM and NVWA which conclude that e-cigarettes also contain harmful substances. If we are talking about stopping smoking, as a general practitioner, I would prefer to recommend the effective methods of stopping smoking that are reimbursed. The current EU measures are a step in the right direction: you are going to see what you are buying. A combined packaging with a terrifying photo and text covering 65% of the packaging is clear: you know what you are buying and you know that this product is not good for you. It is important to stress, in addition to the deterrent effect, the warning and the help that can be provided. Fear may not be the best counselor, but you also offer the opportunity to point out how people can get rid of it. I'm very happy about that. Ask also if we know enough about what motivates people to start smoking and what motivates them to stop. Is it not necessary to allow this to be a guiding principle in the way in which we put together this package of smoke discouragement measures? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u50	Before you get to the next point, there is an interruption by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mrs Volp is in favour of the Tobacco Act, for the Tobacco Products Directive, for the smoking ban in the hospitality industry, for the work-free workplace, for all kinds of measures relating to the e-cigarette, including for minors, and so on. In fact, she wants to go much further than what is already possible and is being arranged. My question to Mrs Volp is: should the shishalounges close?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u52	We are taking a next step in the possibilities of age control. Soon we will be able to expand this if we can control the use of the e-cigarette without nicotine and possibly also the shisha without nicotine or tobacco by age. That's a possibility to check. I know the answer from the Secretary of State to Mrs Agema's question. I also share her concern because, let me be quite honest, the shishalounge should not be a hidden place where young people are confronted in a hip way with products that can lead them to smoke tobacco.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u53	A follow-up question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mrs Volp even proposes banning e-cigarettes containing no nicotine. However, it does not answer the question as to whether a hospitality place where the water pipe is smoked, and which is therefore covered by the Tobacco Act, should be closed or not. The water pipe must be removed and thus the right to exist of that tent disappears. So, does it have to be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u55	We have seen, and the Secretary of State has also indicated, that this is complicated. I agree with Mrs Agema that anything that does smoke or is attractive and resembles smoking should be banned at least for young people. For me and my party, an e-cigarette without nicotine is included. It looks like a cigarette, so let's not make that possible for young people. It is wise to ask the Secretary of State again what the obstacles are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u56	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u57	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u58	No, we'll do the interruptions in half. Mrs Volp continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA has already indicated that she sees that manufacturers are trying to create new smokers in all possible ways. A new generation is seduced with designer suits, horns and bubbles, glitter and handy sizes. I intend to table an amendment with my colleague from the CDA to prevent, through an AMvB, such temptations from appearing on new packages. As far as I am concerned, the new EU measures, even more than they are now, should be reduced, and in any case, no new glam and glitter. This AMvB for new packages should be in the autumn as far as we are concerned, after which European notification can quickly be made. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State, as well as whether he will eventually come up with a plan for plain packaging for all packages and how he will work on them. In the previous debate, I tabled a motion on the agreement to introduce a display ban with the sector. I just talked about that. Tobacco must come out of the sight of the minors. They are very sensitive to advertising and at an early age they connect a good feeling to well-known, attractively presented brands. Think of the big yellow M along the highways. If it's in sight at all, I'll get a restless back seat. It is a good ambition to come up with a covenant with the sector before 1 July. However, I would once again urge all tobacco sellers to take their social responsibility. Good steps are being taken by well-known supermarkets and a number of petrol stations. Secretary of State, let's not lose the sense of urgency. Keep your course and work with the sector to have that ambitious covenant by 1 July at the latest. Can you promise me that? How do you keep the pressure on it? If the sector does not come to terms with itself, I intend to legally enforce a display ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u60	I would like to come back to the previous point: the plain packaging. I understand that there is an amendment in preparation. The SP has also tabled an amendment on plain packaging. Can Mrs Volp tell us what the differences or similarities are between these two amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u61	In any case, the amendment, which I have tabled together with the CDA, provides that no new packages can be produced with shiny, glitter and the like. The packages have to comply with the regulations we're about to meet. I think that the space that remains on it should not be tilted, glued and glittered or provided with flashing lights. This would allow tobacco manufacturers to tap into new target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u62	Why be such a complicated amendment as at least three parties, and perhaps a majority in the Chamber, for plain packaging? Wouldn't it be much easier to say that two thirds of Europe should be agreed and the other one a third neutral? Period. That is actually the intention of plain packaging.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u63	I understand Mr Van Gerven's wish: to ensure that we sell what it is and the way it is. It is something that is not attractive and should not be. In the way we try to realize a display covenant, I see that the support is very important. The Secretary of State has indicated that in Australia it is precisely the coherent package; the plain packaging is not the only one. If we're gonna get lawsuits that are gonna slow things down a lot, we need to prepare ourselves for that as best we can. Together with Mr Bruins Slot of the CDA, I ask the government how we can work towards a complete plain packaging package as soon as possible. I do think that support is extremely important. So I share the desire to end up selling a real product, but the way to achieve that really needs support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u64	Maybe you can do something for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u65	Compliance with the age limit must be improved and sellers must take greater responsibility for this. We've talked about the tobacco vending machines before. I do not think that the success rate of minors of almost 100% is acceptable. Following a PvdA motion, Horeca Netherlands is working hard on compliance. We are waiting impatiently for the results. Does the Secretary of State itself expect a major improvement in this respect? As far as our party is concerned, if the sector itself is not in good shape, we believe that legal intervention is justified. There is now a ban in 13 Member States. Let us not wait too long to intervene in the way that is needed. What about the information campaign aimed at young people who are most at risk? Mrs Dik-Faber asked for that too. I told you, there's no smoking at our house, and my eldest son's schoolyard is smoke-free. However, there are families that do smoke and a lot of schools are unfortunately not yet smoke-free. How can we reach those young people from VMBO and MBO schools? What's that campaign gonna look like? It has already been indicated which media are being used for this purpose. Can the Secretary of State, for example, undertake to use role models to convey the message? I'm rounding up. "Be brave forward!" It's adagium. I am waiting, albeit impatiently, until the summer, to see what these steps have led to. I really want to see an ambitious covenant, a solid AMvB, preferably a huge improvement in compliance and a significant reduction in the number of novice smokers in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u66	I wholeheartedly recommend to the Labour Party our motion that 1% of tobacco duty be reserved for tobacco prevention. I'm anxious to see how the PvdA stands in there. I have a question about a blog by Mrs Rebel, which says: "The PvdA would like vending machines to disappear in the hospitality industry. If there's no smoking in the cafe anymore, why sell? And it saves a lot of enforcement: in the hospitality sector, age control is often poor." Let that be the argument in an amendment I tabled today. Does the Labour Party support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u67	Mr Van Gerven refers to a blog that I wrote under my previous name. To reassure you: that is not a previous life and I still support the blog. I would indeed like to see young people unable to buy. We have seen that this is quite easy at a tobacco vending machine in the hospitality industry. The branch organisation Koninklijke Horeca Nederland has indicated that it is taking action against this. I've just indicated that I'm waiting very impatiently for that. I share the sense of urgency that if that is not enough, then we must take other measures. Once again, there must be support for this. I think the mass removal of vending machines would cause a huge stir. We'll give them one more chance. If that opportunity is not grasped, we must follow up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u68	Does this give rise to a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u69	Yes, I do, because I don't understand any of that. Mrs. Volp was very clear in her blog. She said there's no smoking in those cafes anyway, so get rid of the vending machines. And as it turns out, enforcement is a farce. Nine out of ten young people can just buy cigarettes, because the age coins are just on top of the vending machines and people say go ahead. It's not enforceable. There are vending machines everywhere. Why, then, do we not take a measure for which there is a great deal of support, except for the group that deserves it? A lot of cafes really aren't waiting for it. Why does Mrs Volp not support her own proposal from a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u70	It is a wish, a wish, to ensure that young people can at least not buy cigarettes in the hospitality industry. I see that Horeca Netherlands is now coming up with a new plan. This new plan also has the support of the catering companies. I think this is important. It has not only the support of manufacturers of vending machines but also the support of entrepreneurs. Let's give this a chance. I share Mr Van Gerven's sense of urgency. There should no longer be a 100% acquisition opportunity for young people. If that is the case, the plan has failed and, as far as I am concerned, follow-up steps are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u71	Mr. Chairman. The next item is the amendment to the Tobacco Act implementing a European directive. The debate on the sale and use of tobacco remains topical. Each year, the debate flares up, whether or not inspired by new measures to discourage smoking. The VVD supports the policy of discouragement of young people under 18 years of age from smoking. I'll take you back in time. As a kid, I was sent out to get cigarettes for my mom or dad's birthday party. Almost all uncles and aunts smoked, and mostly also their own brand. At weddings and parties, the smokework for the guests was from those glasses on the table. You know how it is. In cafés but also in restaurants there was plenty of smoking. And that's only a generation back. Generations that come will wonder how all this happened. The health risks were not fully identified at the time. In the meantime, the necessary results have been achieved, and that is a good thing. It often creates the impression that tobacco vendors do not want to take it so closely with the legal rules. My experience is different. Since the summer of 2015, I am on behalf of the VVD spokesperson on this file. As a former entrepreneur, I was wondering what impact the laws and regulations had on the retailers involved in selling tobacco products. I was also very curious as to how they comply with the rules. I visited a shopkeeper in Groningen who had specialized in tobacco products, but also sold reading and lottery tickets. He talked enthusiastically about his shop and how he carried out the age check and indicated that no one wanted to speak with him from a political point of view. European rules would prevent that. In my first general discussion on the subject of tobacco, I mentioned this. As a representative of the people, you need to know what's going on in the workplace. Companies have shown in recent years that they are willing to take responsibility. Look at the catering business. Smoking policy has led to enormous consequences. To serve the smoking guest, there is huge investment in smoking rooms. The staff should not be exposed to smoke. As a service for the guests there are tobacco vending machines, but that is not good. Compliance figures are abominable. The industry has picked up the glove and the first custom vending machines are placed provided with a good ID check. Supermarkets are now experimenting with a different way of displaying the smoke products. So they're picking up the glove, too. Pump holders use mystery guests to check whether their employees comply with the rules when selling tobacco. Information and training of employees are high on the list of priorities of these companies. Does the Secretary of State recognise these efforts by the industry? Is he prepared to take account of the different sales channels, such as the 18-plus environment, when evaluating the covenant concluded with the supermarkets? In recent years, a number of illegal cigarette producers have been wound up. The fact that these producers are there is a bad development. Figures indicate that 850 million illegal cigarettes are being smoked. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that he should go hand in hand with the entrepreneurs who do comply with the rules in order to achieve the ultimate goal? Fines are strong and the points of sale that do not comply with the rules can and must be dealt with firmly. That's gotta be better. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that there is still a profit to be made there? It is not for entrepreneurs who do follow the rules to sell that people who break the rules can get away with it. Compliance figures simply need to be improved, but also time plays a role in this. Sellers of drinks and smoke products know how to tell me that there is already a habit to show an ID when buying a product. That's how it's supposed to be. There must be time to allow the measures that are now being taken to land properly. But compliance with tobacco vending machines and restaurants that deliver at home and so on should be improved, in order to better match the efforts of e.g. supermarkets, gas stations and tobacco specialty stores. In error, then enforcement! My colleague Arno Rutte also introduced this: three times wrong is closed. The addition of the directive from Europe with unproven effects of additional measures puts even more pressure on the industry. The VVD does not consider that desirable. First implement the directive and then measure the effects. How does the Secretary of State view this? There are also sounds to oblige the industry to purchase ID verification systems. The VVD doesn't care how the age verification will take place. If an entrepreneur decides to do so through a security guard at the door, that is his or her business. The assignment is simple: no sales under 18 years old. A good example is bread. In 1960 the Netherlands had more than 10,000 hot bakers. These days, there's another 2,500. Yet no less bread has been sold. According to research, reducing the number of outlets does not appear to have an effect on the quantity of tobacco sold. We should not therefore seek the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u72	That gives Mrs Dik-Faber cause for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u73	This is a bit of an apple comparison with pears. The number of points of sale of bread has been significantly reduced, but the Netherlands does not eat less bread. I think a bread is a daily need for life. Does the VVD now mean that tobacco is comparable to a daily need for life?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u74	I was waiting for this interruption. Mrs Dik-Faber used the example of bread before. That's why I brought this in. That's how Mrs. Dik-Faber gets it back. What's the case? In her contribution she mentioned the example that bread could be bought in 9,000 places in the Netherlands, but in many more places tobacco. I went in there for a while. That is why I mentioned the example. It wasn't about bread, it was about brown bread. That's what it started with, Mrs. Dik-Faber. Next, the comparison of the KWF included the service stations at the sales points of tobacco, while the same service stations also sold bread, but as a bread point they were not included. So when it comes to apples and pears, I thought I'd give it back. If we are to contribute to KWF which is intended for research, I think it is better not to do such misleading advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u75	Let me go back to the underlying point. People need certain products for their food supply. This cannot be maintained by tobacco. All kinds of studies show that watching smoking makes smoking work. Availability of tobacco encourages people to buy tobacco. They see it, they buy it. For that reason, and because it is not a daily need, is it certainly desirable to reduce the number of outlets?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u76	We're different in that. I have just said that research shows that reducing the number of outlets does not limit the quantity of tobacco sold. Hence the argument that this is not necessary. I know that Mrs Dik-Faber is also keen to make the vending machines in the catering industry disappear. She claims that after all there is no smoking in the catering industry. Then I ask her the question: what do we do with the condom machines?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u77	We confine ourselves to the subject on the agenda. This is strange to the order of the day. Please continue your speech, Mr Ziegs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u78	We were really talking about the vending machines. That's why I made a comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u79	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u80	Do you feel personally addressed, Mrs. Thick? It is not intended that an interruption should be carried out in three instalments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u81	I know, Mr. Chairman. But again, it is apples and pears, because smoking is bad for public health. The VVD doesn't mean sex is bad for public health, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u82	This is a third deadline in this interruption, so we see this as a communication. I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u83	I assume the VVD has no objection to a coffee shop in every street in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u84	In my day, a coffee shop was a place where you bought a cup of coffee, but I assume Mr Van Gerven means a different kind of coffee shop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u85	Sure. Mr Ziengs knows that too. Let him just answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u86	I understand very well that Mr Van Gerven is asking me this question, but I do not quite understand why I should then make a statement on a coffee shop in every street. I think there are guidelines for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u87	No, Mr. Van Gerven. This is the third term. Mr Ziengs is talking about his own answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u88	I object to that. He pretends he doesn't understand my question and avoids a second term. I would like to put my second term in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u89	He's about his own answers. There are two deadlines. I would then emigrate and put another interruption at another time. Mr Ziengs continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u90	A wise decision by the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u91	That's not for the speaker's assessment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u92	Then there's the exception. Smokers of cigars are generally not young people under 18 years of age. The Secretary of State has also recognised this and uses Article 11 to protect these products from so-called "scarce pictures," with the exception of textual warnings. The same arguments apply to pipe tobacco. That is a very small percentage of the tobacco market. A number of companies in the Netherlands are still engaged in their production. Although not specifically mentioned, it seems to the VVD that this product group may also be covered by Article 11. I would like to hear confirmation from the Secretary of State on this. The documents also refer to new products. Can the Secretary of State define what he means by that? For example, the volume was mentioned earlier. Surely it will not be the case that a cigar manufacturer who increases the number of cigars in the cedar box will be hindered by an incorrect interpretation of this definition? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, the question to the Secretary of State when the final Smoke Decision and the related ministerial regulations are published. The VVD supports the measures described in the Directive and will support one-on-one implementation in the law, including the exception Article 1.11. But more, and more, and more, as far as the VVD is concerned, is not at issue at the moment. However, I shall table another sub-amendment. I am probably doing this together with Mr Van Vliet, who is not here tonight, but who has authorized me to do so. With this sub-amendment we want to create a slight veil, so that the Chamber can still respond to an AMvB of the Secretary of State. This concerns in particular the CDA and PvdA amendments announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u93	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has told me he needs some time. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.30 p.m. If that's enough, I'll ask the Secretary of State. I can see that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u94	Can't we suspend until 21:15, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u95	No, that's too short. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u96	I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u97	Mr. Chairman. It is well known that smoking is a deadly addiction. Around 20,000 people die every year in the Netherlands from smoking and several thousands from smoke. These are, in themselves, worrying numbers. Less known is that home smoking in children can lead to middle ear inflammation, asthma and worse. Moreover, these children have a greater chance of smoking themselves later, with all the consequences. My ambition is that young people should no longer start smoking in the future and that children should no longer be exposed to further smoking. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal to implement the tobacco product directive, a package of tobacco discouragement measures which is in itself a fairly robust package. The following is proposed by law. For tobacco products: a mandatory notification when placing new tobacco products on the market. For e-cigarettes: a ban on brand extension, the obligation to add a package leaflet to the packaging of these cigarettes and to refill containers. The obligation for producers, importers and distributors to set up a system for collecting information on harmful effects. There are two points on which we are going to go further. For e-cigarettes and refill packs there will be an age limit of 18 years and an advertising ban. In addition, a general warning on tobacco products is provided per AMvB, including the website. Furthermore, a mandatory combined health warning in the form of photographs and texts on cigarette, shag, pipe tobacco, cigarillos and water pipe tobacco packaging; a ban on small packages containing less than 20 cigarettes; a ban on misleading information; a ban on cigarettes and shag with distinctive flavors and an increase in the obligation to provide information and a registration requirement for traders in cross-border sales. For e-cigarettes: a general warning on packaging and rules for safe use. For refill packaging: an information obligation for producers and also a registration obligation for cross-border sales. This is a pretty sturdy package, especially when you see it that way. Measures which are in line with the tobacco discouragement policy we have been pursuing for some time, aimed at preventing young people from smoking, helping smokers who want to stop and protecting bystanders from the health damage caused by second-hand smoking. I think there is a solid package of measures with this bill. In doing so, we are taking important steps to ensure that young people in particular are better protected against the health risks of tobacco products. It is good that we are working together at European level here. Although the number of Dutch smoking tobacco is falling, the number of users of the e-cigarette is increasing at the same time. In 2014, more than 4% of the Dutch used e-cigarettes, while in 2013 this was 2.5%. In itself, it is good that people who have been smoking for years also see the e-cigarette as an alternative to smoking in the mails I received from Mrs Agema. So for them it will be an outcome. I appreciate that these people have often tried to stop them many times, trying to stop them in this way. Maybe the e-cigarette will do the trick. There's nothing wrong with that. However, research by RIVM shows that the e-cigarette also presents health risks, perhaps even more than was initially thought. So although the e-cigarette is less unhealthy than the tobacco cigarette, the vapour of the e-cigarette contains substances that can be harmful to health. In addition, the e-cigarette creates or maintains a nicotine addiction. It is therefore important for users to be aware of this at least. I want to prevent young people from becoming addicted to nicotine by the e-cigarette and that the e-cigarette serves as a stepping-up product for the tobacco cigarette. Mrs Volp pointed that out, too. That is why I am taking measures to discourage the use of e-cigarette among young people. In April 2016, I expect the results of RIVM's research into the harmful effects of co-gases with an e-cigarette. On that basis, I will consider whether additional measures are needed to protect bystanders from this. In addition, there are developments around other smoke products such as the bong and the e-cigarette without nicotine. I would also like to keep a close eye on them, because it is very undesirable for young people to use these products, also because these products can be harmful to health. I am also preparing legislation on this point. This bill is expected to be submitted to the Chamber in mid-2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u98	The Secretary of State rightly notes that the use of the e-cigarette is increasing very sharply, from 2.5 to 4 today, and that the number of smokers is not actually decreasing. You would actually say: then it obviously doesn't work. If the use of the e-cigarette increases, you would like to see the number of smokers decrease equally. That's not true. How does the Secretary of State see that? How does he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u99	It may simply be too early to say. You will notice from reactions, however, Mrs Agema already referred to the e-mails she has received about it, that many people experience the e-cigarette as a way to get rid of smoking. You do not see that in the figures yet, but it is natural to imagine that many people say: instead of smoking tar, I am going to vaporize the e-cigarette. Let us hope that any increase in the use of the e-cigarette will also lead to a reduction in the use of cigarettes. Indeed, we do not see that very clearly in the figures. So I would like to emphasise two things. I think it is a good thing for people who want to get rid of smoking and that the e-cigarette is an alternative for people who have smoked. However, it would be bad if the e-cigarette were a stepping stone for young people. Let us also look at the fact that there may still be substances in the e-cigarette that are harmful to health. I'll have that investigated. So I'm not saying that it's all wrong. It may help, but we must be careful that young people see this as a stepping stone and then use a harmful product, which would be contrary to my policy on young people's health.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u100	If the e-cigarette were to help you get rid of smoking, would it not have to be registered as a medicine, like all other medicines that are also intended to get rid of smoking? We also know nicotine patches and the like. That also requires registration. My second question is: is there also an explicit examination of whether the e-cigarette is actually a stepping stone for smoking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u101	Mr Van Gerven is right about that. Anyone who thinks he has a cure is free to register it. As you know, careful investigation procedures have been set up for this. Apparently, it is not yet possible to consider it as a medicine or to register it as such. So what Mr Van Gerven is saying is true: it has not yet been registered. Then I come to Mr Van Gerven's second question. We will indeed follow closely to what extent e-cigarettes are used as a stepping stone and seen by young people. That's exactly why I'm taking the e-cigarette measures I'm taking. I think it is clear that this bill changes the obligations for manufacturers, importers, distributors and providers of tobacco products and e-cigarettes. I think it is very important that these groups know what new rules are going to be introduced and what this means to them. In the short term, therefore, resources are being prepared to inform them of the changes that are important to them. That is, as it were, the information on legislation. In addition, I think it is important that several Members of Parliament have also insisted that smokers and non-smokers understand why new measures are being taken, such as the frightening pictures on cigarette packs. I am also preparing funds to increase the level of knowledge on the harmful effects of smoking and second-hand smoking. Knowledge of the harmfulness of smoke and smoke is needed to create more support for tobacco discouragement. I also focus on the part-campaign NIX18, where we use social media-actions and vloggers, so that young people don't light each other up anymore.That's a nice pun, by the way, to start smoking. In addition, I include the VMBO bridge classes with a number of actions, including the Action Antidote and the intervention Fresh Start. I will come back to the information campaign in particular later, but you will see that, in addition to providing information on the rules, we are going to launch specific campaigns to ensure that young people, especially those in them, are properly informed and informed of the disadvantages of smoking. I inform entrepreneurs and employers about what they can do to prevent health damage caused by smoking or second-hand smoking. Smoking areas are not mandatory and entrepreneurs can limit smoking themselves on the terrace. The Chamber has seen that in my approach I also pay particular attention to pregnant women and future parents so that babies and small children can get a better start and not smoke again. I also very much support Mrs Bruins Slot's earlier initiative. 22% of low-skilled women smoke during pregnancy. It is therefore extremely important to take everything out of the closet to get that percentage down. Especially in unborn babies, the effects of second-hand smoking are high: premature birth, low birth weight, increased risk of perinatal mortality and sometimes permanent damage. It is an expensive duty of all of us to change that, to increase knowledge and to make the professionals more supportive of mothers. That really has to change. That is why I organised a meeting last year with doctors, pediatricians, funds and nurses, among others, to work together on an approach. I remain committed to this joint approach. The prevalence should be explicitly reduced. It's a figure that scares the hell out of you, when everyone knows it's unhealthy. I think the mothers-to-be also know it's unhealthy. Maybe they're in a situation where it's really hard to get rid of it. Even if the addiction is so great that it is incredibly difficult to get rid of it, we must take everything out of the closet to better support these mothers so that this figure goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u102	I could not have said more clearly on this point. I've also seen a nice press release come by. I just haven't seen a letter to the House of Representatives detailing the steps the Secretary of State is about to take. When's she gonna get that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u103	I would like to draw up that letter in consultation with the profession. I do not have exactly a date in mind, but let me say first of all that I intend to send a letter to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u104	I would like to express my appreciation for the attention paid to this particular, very vulnerable group, a group that cannot arm itself against it either. In that context, I ask myself the following question and put it as an open question. A number of countries around us, for example, have a ban on smoking in the car for parents when they transport children. What's the Secretary of State's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u105	I hope everyone knows how bad it is to smoke in a closed room, like a car, which makes babies and little kids breathe the smoke. I am very curious to see what the real effects, the compliance effects and their enforcement effects can be. I think it goes very far and is not effective, but I am very curious about the results. I tend to focus more on the awareness that you should not only not do it in the car, but also not at home, not in front of children and not in the playground. I think that's better than having some kind of partial ban in a private environment. I think it's clear that I think it should be clear to everyone that you shouldn't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u106	Nor do I believe that this is the solution, but it is a rather specific wish of, for example, the pediatrician profession. I can imagine that this is also a specific piece which can be brought to the attention of the various professions, such as the obstetricians and consultancies. Maybe the Secretary of State can take this as a specific part. It is precisely because of the small space that the exposure to the harmful substances in a car is even greater. I'd like to impress the Secretary of State on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u107	I agree with that. I can imagine that it can indeed help if doctors and professionals, who do not deal with pregnant women daily but very frequently during pregnancy, warn and explicitly inform by saying 'don't do it there' or 'don't do it at all, and at least not there'. So I will be happy to include that in the discussions we will have with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u108	I'd like to take this opportunity to correct an omission. Mrs Dijkstra has asked me to inform her that she has to opt out. Of course, I should have done that at the beginning, but here's the thing. I would now like to give the floor again to the Secretary of State for his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u109	Some of your members have commented on monitoring and enforcement. That is a point of constant attention. In order to prevent products that do not meet the requirements from reaching the consumer, the legislative proposal extends the sanctioning tools for administrative enforcement with the possibility of administrative enforcement. I will continue to work on improving compliance with age limits. I would point out that around 1,200 additional inspections were carried out in 2015. In 2016, I will continue to closely monitor compliance with the smoking ban in the hospitality industry, including in the shishalounges. There I will also investigate whether tobacco is being smoked with the bong. I will come back to that in detail later. With such a package you can always discuss whether it is enough and what the developments are. In particular, three topics have been discussed: how about the display ban, what about the vending machines and what about plain packaging. I am in this about as Mrs Volp put it. On the one hand, we must occasionally be tempted to think further than we have done so far. At the same time, we must also pay attention to the time of implementation and the support for the measures we are taking. There's a very sturdy package here. Of course there's a discussion going on about the display ban. Mrs Volp also pointed that out. The sectors have said that they want to think about whether it can come to an agreement. I think it is important that we can take action with the support of the sector. Mr Ziengs asked if we would like to work side by side with bona fide entrepreneurs who are thinking with each other and with the government about responsible business management. I think that's very important. This strengthens the support for all kinds of measures. That's why I want to see if we can come to such a covenant. I'm going to go into that in detail later. However, a display ban can work; there are good experiences with it abroad. I would very much like to be able to do this together with the sectors. I have agreed with the sectors that they will come forward with further proposals. I have agreed a deadline of 1 July for this. However, it is not without obligation. I want the sectors to think about how they can reach that covenant. I am very willing to consult with them. But if it doesn't work, maybe we should consider further measures. In the various contributions, attention has also been paid to this. A similar approach applies to vending machines. At the vending machines there is poor compliance, very bad. I have asked for clearly better compliance rates. Other techniques are also being considered. Here too, it is important to consider whether this can contribute to further reducing smoking, especially among young people. Compliance with vending machines needs to be improved. That is not a non-binding agreement; if better compliance remains, we will consider further measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u110	I have a question about the display ban; let me limit myself to that. The Secretary of State is somewhat vague about what will happen if there is no covenant after 1 July 2016. Probably won't come out, but we'll see. The Secretary of State says, however, that he might do something. Shouldn't we just say: if it isn't resolved on 1 July 2016, then that display ban comes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u111	I actually think that's what I'm supposed to say. Don't be so fancy. On the one hand, I am sitting at the table with the sectors. They have told me that they want to think about such a covenant and that they want to see in their circle how far they can get. We made the deal that they'll show what they're capable of within a certain time frame. And on the other hand, before that deadline is over, I'd say I'm gonna do something else if it doesn't work out. But it's not noncommittal. I'm assuming it'll work. Why wouldn't it work? In other countries it is possible. That means I'm counting on it to happen. But if it does not, then we will have to take further action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u112	However, if one already feels that after 1 July the Secretary of State is going to follow a system of padding again, it will not get any better. The SP disagreed, but said: okay, we're gonna try the way of the covenant. Then one has to deliver too. If you do not deliver 1 July, I would say: if you do not get it done, that display will be there, because it serves a purpose that we all pursue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u113	You actually put it neatly. The sectors want to take on their responsibilities. That has been shown, also in the conversations I have had. It's all kind of tricky. There's a level playing field. Of course, the sector does not want to be alone, but wants others to participate. I understand that. Such a display ban and the actions that the sectors have taken to see what they can do with it, I take it very seriously. I think they also take me very seriously and know, knowing me, that further measures will follow if their actions do not produce sufficient results. That's what I told them. I take them seriously. That means they'll take me seriously, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u114	I take the other subject raised by the Secretary of State: the tobacco vending machines in the catering industry. Because of the performance that is already a form of advertising. They are in a place where many young people come, where there is hardly any supervision and where smoking is not allowed. So the Christian Union likes to see them disappear. Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on? Does compliance indeed improve? Are cigarettes much less easy for young people via the tobacco vending machines? We've really been talking about this for quite some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u115	I don't have any numbers yet. The numbers that were there were just bad. Enforcement must therefore be improved, substantially. I spoke to the entrepreneurs through the trade associations. They actually thought so and are now discussing with each other what measures can be taken to strengthen enforcement. That's what we're gonna measure. On that basis, we're just having a business conversation. Has it been sufficiently improved so that we can have confidence in it or not, which means that we need to take further action? I think this is a fair deal. It's the same kind of deal. I take them seriously and expect them to take me seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u116	When has it been sufficiently improved? On what date are we going to measure that with each other? Is that, for example, 31 December of this year? Are we going to see how things are going over the next few months and whether there is indeed no tobacco sales via vending machines to young people under 18 years of age? Would the Secretary of State be okay if half of the vending machines were functioning properly and the other half weren't? Does he think we've taken sufficient steps together? Where is the limit on which it is sufficient? When are we going to take a decision on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u117	I am looking at my external thoughts and I think I see that we are getting new figures after the summer. On this basis, we can assess whether compliance has improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u118	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u119	The measures we are discussing today are necessary if we want young people to stop smoking in the future and not to be exposed to further smoking. There is a solid package here in my view, although I understand that there are differences of opinion in the Chamber. There are people who can't stand it, but there are also people who think this is a very solid package and propose to look at what it all means first. The government believes that this package has struck a reasonable balance. It is a robust package of measures to implement the EU Directive with additional measures taken on the basis of Dutch experience. In addition, we keep a close eye on the developments surrounding the Covenant on display ban as well as compliance with the vending machines and the possibilities that there are and may still be around the plain packaging. I also want to take a very serious look at Plain Packaging. I would point out, however, that there is still a great deal of discussion about this in other countries and that there are also legal proceedings. Before we consider plain packaging, I would like to have legal certainty as to what effectiveness is on the one hand and the legal feasibility on the other. This is typically one of those measures that we should consider. We should not throw her away, but its support and legal sustainability must be firm. Legislation is not enough. That is why I continue to focus on information and increasing the public support for tobacco discouragement in order to ensure that the positive trend for the number of smokers to fall and for fewer and fewer young people to start smoking continues in the coming years towards a smoke-free generation in the future. I now come to the specific questions. Mr Van Gerven asked whether it was true that about 100 young people a day start smoking. That number's right. It is precisely the reason why we are working so hard to discourage smoking among young people. We have already taken many measures for this group, such as setting the age limit, the NIX18 campaign and the non-smoking school grounds. With the implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive, the photographs and the tastes to put it simply, and a great deal of communication is being done. Of course, we also focus on the parents. Mr Van Gerven also asked whether the target of 2% fewer smokers by 2020 was ambitious enough. The 2% is a kind of summation of the expected effects of individual measures under the Tobacco Products Directive. The measures are mutually reinforcing and the final impact is likely to be greater than this sum. We have not yet taken into account the impact of any national measures introduced by the Member States up to 2020, such as the age limit and the advertising ban. They will have consequences for the numbers we will see in the Netherlands. It is a European ambition, a cautious move, which we will certainly achieve with everything we do. It is independent of the national measures taken in the wake of European action. Moreover, I believe that reducing smoking among the generation of resistant smokers is more complicated than making the battle for a smoke-free generation. We're betting on both, but the smoke-free generation is the most important thing. Disheartening and helping people to stop is also important. That's why the numbers are a little bit off. I note that the 2% in reversing major trends may not be a very ambitious objective, perhaps it is even reasonably cautious. It does not take account of all the measures taken at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u120	Can the Secretary of State mention a specific number? That is what I asked in my speech. There are 3.6 million smokers now. I believe that the number of smokers over 15 years is 24%. If we assume 2% reduction, it should be 22%, I understand from the words of the Secretary of State. Does this mean that the 3.6 million will, for example, be 3.3 million? I would like to hear how many hundred thousand fewer smokers there will be by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u121	I think it's a slightly more complicated calculation, because you also have to look at the demographic effects. There are also great differences between the numbers you have for the elderly and for the young. At that last target group we use much harder. I do not know exactly where Mr Van Gerven is going with this, but an absolute number does not say that much. The main line is that there are fewer smokers among the elderly, but above all that we are growing towards a smoke-free generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u122	I would like to hear a specific number. That says a lot. If 3.6 million people smoke, we know that this group is exposed to harmful effects. If that substantially reduces in number, if it becomes 3.3 million, it is clear. Demographic trends up to 2020 are well known. In my opinion, it is very good to mention, in addition to the percentage, which is fine, concrete numbers, both for the 18-plussers and for the category underneath. Those are very similar figures. In the meantime, you can see very well whether the goal is actually being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u123	Let's see if this can be further coloured in the various reports. Whether you set targets in percentages or numbers, it doesn't matter that much. I don't see the added value exactly. It's about what happens when we take the measures. Let us see if we can present this in a different way, if Mr Van Gerven is more convenient. Of course, it's about turning the trend around and working towards a smoke-free generation. Mr Van Gerven asked whether the covenant was not a mission impossible. That is very much the question for me. If the sectors tell me that they want to try to implement the covenant, I take it very seriously, as I hope they take me seriously. I trust that all efforts will be made by them to achieve this. Mr Van Gerven asked for a response to the European Court ruling of 23 December on plain packaging. On 23 December, the Advocate General delivered an opinion to the European Court, which is not yet a final ruling. We are still waiting for the final judgment of the Court, but it is not yet known. Mr Van Gerven also asked about the level of fines and the sanctions that we are going to impose in the Netherlands. There are, of course, different sanctions now. Experience has shown that they generally have sufficient effect. The Tobacco Products Directive further extends and strengthens this. As a sanction, administrative penalties may also be imposed, as set out in the Annex to the Tobacco Act. In the event of a violation of the advertising and sponsorship ban, a maximum fine of €450,000 can be imposed on manufacturers, wholesalers and importers, and a maximum fine of €4,500 to others. The fine for infringement of the age limit has been increased from 1 January 2016 and is equivalent to the fine for infringement of the age limit for alcohol. For companies with more than 50 employees, a doubling of the fines will apply. Mr Ziengs also mentioned it: if the age limit is broken three times within 12 months, there is 'three strikes out'. We must, of course, monitor whether these sanctions are effective, but I note that there is a solid story here, with fairly strong fines. We will therefore be monitoring effectiveness closely, but I believe that there is a solid fine here. Mr Van Gerven also asked whether the main conclusions in the reports have been watered down. We have talked about this before. The relevant documents were provided in the context of the WOB request. I don't know if there's another mail missing, but that's obviously not a setup. I would point out that the main conclusion has not been watered down. The report's conclusion is that only one system has been proven effectively: Ageviewers. That conclusion is still in there. Moreover, the data provided in response to the WOB request are also on national government.nl. I would also point out that the Argos programme had two professors check whether the conclusions were watered down. The conclusion was that this is not the case. Then I come to the question of why in the e-cigarette we do not opt for the warning "Smoking is deadly."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u124	One moment, Mr Van Gerven has another interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u125	The final conclusion in the draft version stated that scientific research shows that only Ageviewers leads to a high degree of compliance: 96%. As well as that only one study is known, from 2010. In the final report, that conclusion is no longer number one. A long way away it says...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u126	Is it number four?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u127	That conclusion is mentioned a long way down. However, it does not say that it is based on one investigation, but that the evidence is thin. The term "thin" is introduced here. This makes the coloring a very different one and the prominent place of this system has been pushed down and some muffled away. My point is that this has apparently been proposed in an official consultation with the Trimbos Institute. My question to the Secretary of State was whether he thought this was a good way of doing things and whether it would not put the integrity of the researchers under pressure, as it would have an impact on the colour of the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u128	My experience with the researchers at the Trimbos Institute is that they are scientifically responsible and highly professional researchers. Of course, they discuss any research report with everyone and come to a conclusion on the basis of their scientific insights. However, I have no reason to doubt the integrity of the Trimbos Institute's researchers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u129	No, that wasn't the port of my comment either. I didn't say that either. I have asked whether the integrity is not being tested by the actions of officials who are trying to weaken or colour the conclusions in the draft report. My other question was whether the draft report of the Trimbos Institute and correspondence could be sent to the Chamber, with which it is an official document which the Chamber can take note of, so that the Chamber can carry out its duties as the auditor of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u130	When scientists discuss their findings, with anyone, I do not think that the integrity of those scientists will be compromised. If they are good scientists, they will support their conclusions. Again, I have no reason to doubt that. And the information provided in the context of the WOB-procedures is simply on national government.nl. So it's public and anyone can see it. I will continue on the e-cigarette and on the proposal for the warning "Smoking is deadly." The alert text for e-cigarettes is set out in the Tobacco Products Directive. That's implementation legislation that I can't deviate from. Mr Van Gerven asked whether the idea of banning cross-border distance sales was related to preventing illegal trade, or simply did not have to do anything about it. The reason why we do not opt for a ban is the possibility of increasing illegal trafficking via the Internet. I don't want this business to get any bigger. Effective enforcement in cross-border internet sales is very difficult. The alternative is a registration obligation with an age verification system. This obligation to register makes the offer for cross-border distance sales visible and potentially more manageable. That is not the case with a ban. That is why a registration requirement has been chosen. I think I have already mentioned the e-cigarettes and the medicines. Mr Van Gerven also asked why the e-cigarette had not yet been included in the package leaflet and what is already known about it. The rules for the package leaflet are already laid down in the Temporary Goods Act e-cigarettes. These rules will soon be included in the ministerial regulation of the Tobacco Act. Mr Van Gerven also asked why we did not ban all additives immediately. On the basis of this bill, all additives will of course be banned which significantly increase addiction or health damage, except the presence of nicotine and tar. This does not necessarily apply to flavours. If the taste contains a characteristic aroma, they increase the attractiveness. That is why they are no longer allowed for cigarettes and shag. Mr Van Gerven probably referred to the transitional period for flavourings with a market share of more than 3%. It is indeed laid down in the European directive and we cannot deviate from it any further. Then I come to the question of why there can be no single system for the ingredients. I think Mr Van Gerven and Mrs Dik-Faber asked for this. Let me just say for the record: all tobacco ingredients are made public. This already happens via the website tobaccoinfo.nl. This information will remain public, through a common entry gate, which specifies the format in which the ingredients are displayed in tobacco and electronic cigarettes. These are fixed formats, which makes them very similar. For e-cigarettes, there is not yet a format because the assessment of product characteristics is still under development, but there is already a format for tobacco and cigarettes. The question of whether the NVWA can monitor this should also be considered in this light. The NVWA has the power under the General Administrative Law to request access to the systems and to request documents. You can do that through those formats. For the e-cigarettes it is developing, but it is not really necessary, as long as that information is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u131	The law really states that business and manufacturing data need not be disclosed if this does not outweigh the importance of disclosure. As far as I am concerned, this is a public health issue, and for me it is always above the interests of companies, i.e. the tobacco industry. So this is literally in the law. I really wonder if I have misunderstood it, because the Secretary of State is now claiming something quite different. I would like to hear an explanation of this. If, at some point in time, business interests are dominant and certain issues cannot be published, it seems to me that it is very difficult for the NVWA to monitor this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u132	Let me get this straight: this is about business secrets. The Tobacco Products Directive obliges us to protect those business secrets. In implementing the Tobacco Products Directive, we simply adopted these rules. This is different from the information given about ingredients. In the case of tobacco and cigarettes, it must be formatted and the composition of e-cigarettes must be indicated. So the NVWA can see to that. It is certainly standard practice in the European Union directives to protect trade secrets. This means that that provision has been incorporated into our law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u133	I understand that we are bound by the European directives and that we will have to comply with them, but I have proposed that an AMvB should indicate in advance what should be included in that system that the tobacco industry should set up. It now states that further rules can be drawn up through an AMvB. Wouldn't it be helpful, even for the NVWA, if we agreed that we would just do that anyway and that we wouldn't leave that to the tobacco industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u134	I just want to be very specific. I just said that those data were formatted through that common entry gate, both for tobacco and cigarettes. It simply indicates exactly what the companies have to fill out in the columns. It is also not the case that the NVWA and RIVM cannot see the trade secrets. They can see them, they just don't need to be made public. This means that there is a view for the supervisors of what is happening in such a company, including what they themselves need to publish. However, trade secrets shall not be disclosed. However, supervisors can see them. I have already given a detailed answer to Mr Van Gerven's question on plain packaging, vending machines and displays. He also asked which implementing acts have not yet been adopted and what their consequences are for the legislative proposal. The following implementing acts have not yet been adopted. I refer to the implementing act for the establishment of a characteristic flavouring, the implementing act for a format for the notification of technical standards for refill packaging of electronic cigarettes and the implementing acts for the establishment and maintenance of a priority list of additives. They will be drawn up as soon as possible. This will be possible before the date of entry into force. I now come to the questions of the Christian Union. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if I could promise that measures will be taken to allow smoking areas only for smoking, and no more than that. I believe that we have exchanged views about the ultimate aim of a smoke-free society, for which a package of measures must be taken. Smoking rooms are an exception to the smoking ban. They were set up to at least increase the support for non-smoking hotels and to offer smokers an opportunity to smoke without harming others. I think it's important that smoking rooms serve that purpose, not other purposes. I would like to say to Mrs Dik-Faber that I would like to examine, in consultation with the industry, the possibilities for agreement. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about plain packaging abroad and about the lawsuits. I have already mentioned this in my general speech. Australia has won a lawsuit brought by Philip Morris. The hearings of the trial brought against the United Kingdom by British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco Group, Japan Tobacco Group International and Philip Morris were concluded on 17 December. The verdict is not yet known. Following the case brought by the tobacco industry against the European Commission, the Advocate General drew up a report. It considered that the TPD alone leaves room for Member States to lay down rules. In March, the European Court of Justice will rule on this case. I think it would be wise to await the rulings of these trials. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the ambition of the cabinet. In my general story I said: preventing young people from smoking is the most important thing. This smoke-free generation is a very important anchor point on which all policy is directed. At the same time, we are looking at how we can help smokers who want to quit smoking and how we can protect co-smokers. In addition to this package, we have a communication campaign, not only about the rules but above all also to increase the knowledge and skills of parents and children. The Chamber has already been able to take note of my views and my increased efforts towards pregnant women. Mrs Faber also asked why a transitional period was introduced to give consumers time to look for alternatives. This is about tobacco products with a characteristic aroma. That has been established at European level, and that means that it is a binding rule, which I cannot deviate from in the context of this legislation. Mrs Faber also asked me to involve the KWF and the KNMG in the campaign and in the evaluation of NIX18. The answer to that is, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u135	I am, of course, very pleased with that last commitment. I'm gonna go back to the last point... it's gonna blow my mind right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u136	Over 3% additives. All that flavor, I better say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u137	Exactly, yes, the additives. In the explanatory statement, I read that additives are simply no longer allowed after 2020. The Secretary of State also writes in the explanatory statement: we use a transitional period for menthol until 2020 to give consumers the opportunity to look for alternatives. But if additives are no longer allowed, how can you look for alternatives? I find that so strange in the explanatory statement. If consumers are unable to find alternatives, this time limit may be somewhat shorter in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u138	I cannot go against that deadline, which is prescribed in the European directive. In the second term, let me see if we can give the same explanation of that sentence. If you read it this way, I also wonder what we can understand. I'll check on that for the second term. Then I come to Mrs Faber's question as to why tobacco may be sold in the bookstore, but no alcohol, if blurring is not allowed. I would like to look at the blurring issue in the context of the evaluation of the Drinking and Horeca Act. That's one. The second point is that the Tobacco Act and the Drinking and Horeca Act are different laws. Under the Tobacco Act, it is not necessary to have a licence to sell tobacco products. That is the case for alcohol under the regime of the Drinking and Horeca Act. This has to do, among other things, with possible effects on public policy. That is also why there is a different regime with regard to the combined sales. Furthermore, Mrs Dik asked me whether I would also like to restrict the sale of tobacco in the hospitality sector further. We are having a discussion with industry about the lack of compliance. I'm gonna repeat that, too. There are consequences to it. Koninklijke Horeca Nederland has promised me that she will inform her members about the importance of this good compliance, including the best practices available and therefore the sale of tobacco in the catering industry itself. In June, I expect to have an insight into the latest figures on compliance. We can then discuss this right after the summer. Mrs Dijkstra had a number of questions about health warnings. Some countries opt for the same exception as we do with cigars. With regard to the popularity of cigarillos, the so-called small cigars among young people, I think it is desirable that the combined health warning should remain mandatory. Then I come to the difference between cigars and pipe tobacco. That was also a question from Mr Ziengs. There are two aspects to cigars: on the one hand, implementation aspects. In the case of large packaging, the warning would be rather complicated in terms of implementation. On the other hand, I mention the small target group. There were no implementation problems with the pipe tobacco. We have now, I think, talked enough about the plain packaging. Mrs Dijkstra also asked if I agree that smoking should be included in the basic package. It is not for nothing that we have decided on this. It's important to stop smoking. Fortunately, the fact that it is in the basic package and remains in it is now well regulated. She also asked me to measure the effects of the Tobacco Products Directive and its introduction in the Netherlands. That is indeed the case. With the lifestyle monitor, we keep our finger on the wrist. We will regularly inform the Chamber about this. It also asked for specific information to be organised for the introduction of the age limit for the e-cigarette. In communicating on all the changes that have been made by this bill, I take with me the information on the age limit for the e-cigarette. At the moment I am looking, together with the experts, at how I will do that. She also asked me to indicate how many of the present packages are used to point out the dangers of smoking. The health warning should cover 30% of the front of the current packets and the warning should cover 40% of the back. After the law is introduced, it becomes 65% of both the front and the back. Mrs Bruins Slot asked what kind of support is offered to schools. The answer is that this support is very diverse and depends on the needs of the school. The method of the Healthy School is to first discuss with the school what priorities it sets itself. School advisors identify the need and offer appropriate guidance. At www.gezondeschool.nl you can see all the hand-outs, flyers and roadmaps that the schools can use and actually use. The answer to the question is therefore: a very differentiated supply per school. Mrs Bruins Slot asked me whether the information campaign is cross-media or long-term and whether leaflets are not only used, but also social media. The next two years will be devoted to active communication. The social media is also used. I recently commissioned research into the social media behaviour of young people to ensure that we can respond to this as best we can. So the answer to Mrs Bruins Slot's question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u139	Good in any case that is done very diversely, only two years is not that long at all. Why did the Secretary of State choose a two-year term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u140	Not to say after it all has to stop then, but more because you have to observe a certain period and then look back in an evaluation. Maybe you should change the concept of the campaign or the form again. So it's not supposed to stop. We choose a certain commitment for a certain period of time and then look at how to evaluate it. Then there is the question of whether the exception for cigars has to do with the majority that we are also trying to get for this bill in the Upper House. That's not the plan. During the internet consultation of the amendment of the Tobacco Act Implementing Decision, it emerged that placing the combined health warning on large cigar packs also poses a number of technical problems. And again, combined with the small target group, I think that with this exception, we have also found a good balance in terms of implementation. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked what thick cigars are. I've thought about that for a while, but fortunately it's been arranged as well. Those are 3 grams or heavier cigars. We've already talked about the display. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked how many young people actually smoke cigars. The factsheet Continuous Research Smoking habits 2014 of the Trimbos Institute shows that about 4% of the Dutch smoke cigars. It is not known what percentage of young people regularly use cigars. The trend analysis of additives of Dutch tobacco products from RIVM shows that the use of cigarillos, i.e. small cigars, is increasing worldwide among young people. That is exactly why we do not want to make an exception on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u141	I couldn't find it either, but the answer from the Secretary of State says very clearly: if the number of young people smoking large cigars is growing, then perhaps we will reconsider the policy. But if you don't know how many young people smoke those cigars, how can you reconsider your policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u142	That means we'll put a special monitor on that. There is also a European barometer watching this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u143	The Secretary of State is going through the list of speakers, but he would come back to the questions I had asked about water pipes. I wonder why I'm being skipped now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u144	Maybe the answers are in the wrong order in the folder. Perhaps it is a good thing that you conclude Mrs Bruins Slot's question and then take a look at Mrs Agema's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u145	My apologies, Mr. Chairman. I would like to add a few words to Mrs Agema's questions. I haven't forgotten you, Mrs. Agema. I would never do that. How could I forget you? I couldn't do that at all. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked me if there is a special commitment to VMBO students, aiming at more knowledge of NIX18. Yes, Mr President, that is the case. We are going to focus on specific actions and interventions that are mainly related to different target groups, including VMBO students. That means they're going to be part of the campaign. How are we going to measure the results? As I said to Mrs Dijkstra, I am going to follow the effects of all measures through the Lifestyle Monitor. This allows us to see whether trends are being reversed. Then I come to Mrs Agema's questions. She asked whether the water pipe was covered by the Tobacco Products Directive. The bong falls under the Warenwet as a product. However, the Tobacco Products Directive lays down rules on water pipe tobacco and herbal smoke products for the water pipe. With this bill, I'm implementing those rules. She asked why there were more and more shishalounges, while smoking was banned. Is that even possible? There is no ban on shishalounges under the Tobacco Act. However, all shishalounges must comply with the Tobacco Act. This means a smoking ban for tobacco, except in smoking rooms, and no smoking ban for herbal mixtures. They can therefore be used outside smoking rooms. Moreover, the Dutch Food and War Authority does indeed monitor compliance with the Tobacco Act in shishalounges. I'll give you some numbers. In 2015, 113 shishalounges and 89 catering companies with a shisha function were visited. 83 fine reports were imposed and 11 warnings given. The NVWA will continue to monitor compliance with the Tobacco Act in the shishalounges in 2016. Moreover, the safety of the supervisors is at the heart of this. For example, at high CO values, the municipality will be informed so that it can maintain it with the aim of first creating a safe environment for employees and visitors. In addition to the products, we also look at CO emissions. I didn't know that myself. That is what we will continue to monitor. I would like to thank Mrs Agema for the e-mails she sent me. I'll tell her I'll write a response to that. I think it is important that the questions are answered and I also very much recognise that the e-cigarette is an alternative for many people for years of smoking. I will try, as she asked, to analyse the image in the e-mails as well as possible and to provide an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u146	Thank you so much for that. For many people, the electronic cigarette really is a rescue. I had another question about the shishalounges. The answer of the Secretary of State is well known. This is what we discussed a year ago. What struck me at the time was that in a large number of cases fines were issued. So, yeah, they don't stick to the smoking ban, and yes, fines are being paid. What was also striking, however, was that it was also overlooked. A year ago, I called for 100% fines in the event of a breach. The small café on the corner has also been whipped: fine on fine on fine. My question to the Secretary of State was a year ago to treat shishalounges the same as the small cafés, which really went over the whip. If we can't do this, we just can't. Then you keep checking and then you keep handing out fines. In the end, we don't have shishalounges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u147	I just want to be specific. I just said that under the Tobacco Act there is no ban on lounges, but on the products used. That is also maintained. I gave the numbers. To this end, the same regime applies as for all other companies, namely that fines are imposed and that risk-based supervision is carried out. If you're one of the offenders, you'll be visited more often. There is also "three strikes out" when it is detected. Therefore, we do not distinguish between the enforcement of tobacco products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u148	I can't control that. This was sent to the House of Representatives in 2015 quite specifically last year. These figures also come from 113 visits and 83 fines. I would like to receive an overview of this from the Secretary of State in a subsequent progress report or whatever. I'd like to check that that little cafe is treated equally to the shishalounge. Indeed, in 2015, it was already clear that there is often a mistake and that a fine is not always imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u149	In the progress reports I will simply provide the statistics of the shishalounges for 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u150	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u151	I come to Mrs Volp's questions and comments, and I would like to add the answers I have already given. Mrs Volp asked if we would consider working with role models in the youth campaign. I think she is quite right to make that point. We will have to use role models, especially in the part-campaign aimed at MBOs and VMBOs. From research we know which role models appeal to young people. We are looking at whether we can use them to motivate young people not to distribute or accept cigarettes. By the way, parents are still role models, although some may question that. We also made comments on this this morning when it came to drug policy. It is of course also a bit dependent on the age. Parents are therefore good role models, but we will also use role models in the campaigns. Mrs Volp further asked if I expected a major improvement in compliance in the catering industry. We need to see if that improvement is going to happen. I said to the sector: it is really not enough. A number of comments were also made in the verification of compliance. In the meantime, 1,200 additional inspections were carried out for the age limit. The focus has also been on sales via the tobacco vending machines. I have spoken with people from Royal Horeca Netherlands and the industry association of vending machines holders for tobacco and sweets, in order to achieve better compliance. The Chamber was informed of the outcome of these talks in December. In any case, I have noticed that the industry organisations are taking my appeal extremely seriously, because it is also seen there and that these compliance figures are simply too low. So that's what they think, too. I appreciate that, but this also applies, of course, not only to talk about it, but also to show results. So we'll find out after the summer. Mrs Volp pointed out that it is important that we know enough about what motivates people to start and what motivates people to stop. She felt that this should be more guiding in tobacco discouragement policy. I endorse her comments. In fact, there is general tobacco discouragement, but I think we are now also encountering borders where we must ensure that we move forward. Perhaps now we come to the persistent smokers and the persistent addicts. An increased effort is needed among young people, and perhaps more specific among young people at the MBO and VMBO schools. That is why I am very much in favour of looking at the differentiation to be made in this 'new style' campaign. What specific messages should be given? Mrs Volp also mentioned the importance of role models. In short, I agree with her. We need to know better why certain target groups start smoking and why they quit smoking. This will enable us to develop very specific information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u152	I thank the Secretary of State. I think it is very important to know the rational and motivation to start very well. We can specifically set things up if we want to motivate starters not to, and with that we can also help people to get rid of smoking. In what way, for example, will the Secretary of State return the proceeds of the campaign to the Chamber? With such a feedback, the Court can better determine which measures it would like to take. I would like that information clearly expressed to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u153	I'd be happy to say so. I have another idea of my own. During the development phase of the NIX18 campaign, we also organised a specific briefing for interested MPs, where they could think with us and see the results of the studies carried out on this issue. That way, we could show what we were up to before the campaign started. If the Chamber appreciates that, I would like to organise such a briefing for the new campaigns that we are going to develop. Then the Chamber can look at it both on the front and on the basis of the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u154	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that invitation and go into it. I would like to point out that we should especially involve the target groups. We must therefore also concentrate on involving these groups in the campaigns which the Secretary of State is about to launch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u155	Sure. It has to work for the target groups. They must like it. I come to Mr Ziegs' comments and questions. He asked me when the final smoking decision and the ministerial arrangement will be known and published. That moment is expected to be just before the date of entry into force. The AMvB should be adopted after adoption of the bill to the Council of State and after the Council of State's opinion. The Ministerial Arrangement is in preparation and will be published after adoption. Mr Ziengs asked me if I would acknowledge the efforts of the supermarket and the vending machines sectors and take this into account in the covenant. I have acknowledged in my discussions that the industry also wants to take responsibility, which I appreciate. I'm expecting some of them, too, and they know it. However, I very much appreciate that it is taken very seriously. It is good that this has also been said. I said, with these figures, you really can't come forward. They have said: we understand that, we ourselves do, so we will make an extra effort. Again, I appreciate that. I can also see that efforts are being made to do this. I am counting on this to give us better results. Mr Ziengs also asked me if I could explain what I mean by 'new products' and what the volume is. New products are products that have not yet been notified under the current Tobacco Act. That is actually the criterion for the term 'new products'. I have already made a few comments about pipe tobacco. Mr Ziengs specifically asked me whether I agree that there should be an increase in the number of entrepreneurs who are doing well and that entrepreneurs who are doing wrong should not get away with it. I think that is an important point. In other words, I spoke with entrepreneurs about the Drinking and Horeca Act. This involved entrepreneurs who are very responsible in running their business. They are hospitable to their guests and do care about what we all think of their achievements. They also said to me: what is best for us is that benevolent entrepreneurs who do their best to pursue a good policy are not appreciated and that entrepreneurs who throw their hats at it get away with it. That does seem very annoying to me, to put it mildly. As an entrepreneur, you want a level playing field. You want to pay for the fact that you're investing. You don't want to be overwhelmed by someone who doesn't invest and therefore gets a better operating result. I am very keen to be and remain in consultation with the sector. I have noticed that this responsibility is also being taken into account. I think it goes without saying that everyone must comply with the law, not just those who do their best. This can mean something for the way in which the NVWA organises risk-oriented supervision. I'll talk to the NVWA about this, too. Finally, I come to the amendments that have been tabled. I'll take a look in your direction, Mr. Chairman. I understand that the second deadline may be next week. I can imagine myself serving the Chamber separately by giving a written response to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u156	I suggest that I suspend the sitting for a moment and invite the spokesmen to speak with me. We are approaching the clock of eleven, and according to the Rules of Procedure, that is about the time to go to bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u157	If the Secretary of State is willing and able to comment orally on the amendments, compactly, then we would like to keep the second term, so tonight. We expect to finish by half an hour or 45 minutes. Everyone is very involved in interrupting. That's not a legal requirement, it's a sort of agreement. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u158	I hope I have them all, including the numbering. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 9 by Mrs Dik-Faber. That amendment introduces a smoking ban for school grounds from 2020. I sympathise with the amendment, but I would also like to make a comment. I think a non-smoking school area is important for the protection of young people. More and more schools are behind that. 53% of schools are non-smoking. Steps are also taken in the MBO. For two years, the educational councils, the Long Fund, the GGD and VWS are attracting extra effort to provide tailored advice and support. With this support, I expect the vast majority of schools to be smoke-free and firmly behind it. It is just a question of what this supplement adds to the bill, because we need to think in due course about what we mean by enforcement. Is this about fines? Is this about fines for the schools or those sitting in the schoolyards? That is not covered by this amendment. However, the aim is the same. I like the motion. With the remark that we will have to consider in due course what it means for enforcement and supervision, I leave the assessment of this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u159	The opinion on the amendment to item No. 9 leave you to the Chamber, where any textual adjustments may be considered. We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u160	In the amendment to item No. Mrs Dik-Faber's proposal is to include rules on domestic distance selling in an AMvB. The Tobacco Products Directive does not oblige domestic sales to be regulated. I do not consider registration to be necessary for domestic internet sales, as this market is sufficiently visible. I do not think that an obligation to have an age verification system is necessary because the Tobacco Act already provides that the entrepreneur must verify the age at the time of purchase and at the time of delivery. I would like to make this point, but I shall leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u161	You leave the opinion on the amendment to item No. 10 to the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u162	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. We have already spoken with Mrs Dik-Faber. The Tobacco Products Directive obliges us to protect business secrecy. It's about public access. It is therefore not possible to delete the possibility under the directive. I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u163	The amendment in part No. 11 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u164	In the amendment to item No. Mrs Dik-Faber asked for an AMvB to be drawn up on the system in which operators of e-cigarettes would have to keep track of harmful substances. The Tobacco Products Directive lays the responsibility for setting up the system among operators of e-cigarettes. The system gives the freedom to decide for itself. At the moment, I do not think it is possible to formulate additional rules, because the development of the product conditions and the product content of the e-cigarettes is under way. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u165	The amendment in part No. 12 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u166	In the amendment to item No. 13 by Mrs Dik-Faber, advertising in supermarkets is restricted. There are already many restrictions on the possibility of advertising tobacco products in specialty shops. It's about the number of square meters. With this bill, these rules will also apply to specialty shops for electronic cigarettes. In view of the rules we already have and the fact that they apply equally, I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u167	The opinion on the amendment to item No. 13 is left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u168	I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer That's about entering plain packaging. I have talked about this extensively. It has been said: let us do this package first and then look at its effects. This amendment goes a little further because it would also apply to electronic cigarettes. We have discussed this at length. I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u169	The amendment in part No. 14 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u170	The amendment in part No. Mr Van Gerven's 15th report deals with tobacco vending machines. We have also discussed this issue at length. We have agreed that compliance is now insufficient, that the sector has the opportunity to ensure that these compliance figures improve. In the meantime, the NVWA holds extra supervision. In 2016 I repeat the compliance survey. I'll wait for the results before I take any action. I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u171	The amendment in part No. 15 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u172	I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 16 by Mrs Bruins-Slot and Mrs Volp on plain I do not think it is desirable that there should be shiny packages, let me just mention it. In the field of plain packaging, there are still court cases. I've already mentioned them. I have already said that we would like to make a decision about plain packaging afterwards. There are many new requirements for packaging. In the light of the explanatory statement by Mrs Volp and Mrs Bruins-Slot, I leave this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u173	The opinion on the amendment to item No. 16 is Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u174	In conjunction with that, the amendment tabled by Mr Ziegs and Mr Van Vliet, namely that in part No. 17. It proposes a slight veil, as Mr Ziengs mentioned in the debate. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u175	The opinion on the amendment to item No. 17, in conjunction with that in part No. 16, it's "judge chamber." This brings us to the end of the first term. We'll continue with the second term immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u176	Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise a number of points. First of all, I will discuss the discussion with the Secretary of State about Argos' broadcast of Ageviewers. I understand from his answer that the Trimbos Institute's report clearly showed that Ageviewers' system is best at age verification. Then why should it not be written down in this way by the officials? The Secretary of State said that it is in the final conclusions of the final report, but it is not in it. It's a little further down underneath. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send the draft report plus all the e-mails on it, some of which have not been sent to the Chamber in spite of the WOB request, so that it can be officially informed and give its opinion on it? I had a fraternity with Mrs. Agema from the PVV. She claimed that 60% of young people use hard drugs. I asked her to prove that, but she didn't provide that evidence. I have here the figures of the 2015 Annual Report of the National Drug Monitor: cannabis 7.7%, cocaine 0.8%, opiates 0.2%, xtc 0.9%, amphetamine 0.6% and GHB 0.1%. Then how did Mrs. Agema get 60%? I also found out what the percentage of smokers is among young people in the Netherlands: 30. That's substantially more. The SP is not in favour of hard drug use, certainly not in favour of it, but it is also not in favour of playing down the problem of smoking, as the PVV does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u177	Such a personal invitation is so clear and clear that you may respond to it, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u178	We had an extensive debate on drugs this morning. This is the third debate we have with the Secretary of State today. In this morning's debate, Mrs Kooiman, on behalf of the SP, expressed her concern about the explosive increase in the use of hard drugs, namely ecstasy and MDMA. The Trimbos Institute's research has been discussed extensively. I am therefore very sorry that Mr Van Gerven...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u179	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u180	I don't have a question, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven raises an issue that we discussed extensively this morning and on which the SP also expressed its concerns this morning. I think that Mr Van Gerven, instead of taking another step further, might be better advised that the use of hard drugs among young people has increased explosively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u181	It is not a question, but you can respond if you wish, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u182	I do, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Agema doesn't contradict my grades. I hear what you're calling out of the microphone, Mrs. Agema, but you're not denying it. We debated that this morning...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u183	We are doing this through the chairman, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u184	Through the President: give us the figures showing that 60% of young people between 12 and 18 years of age regularly use hard drugs. Here's what this morning was about. It is known that there is a massive use at dance parties, but I am dealing with an orderly comparison with the just mentioned category. The numbers I just mentioned are from the National Drug Monitor. So you can't brush it away. And then I'll come back to smoking. You are concerned about the use of hard drugs, but you should also be more concerned about the massive use of tobacco products among young people. 30% use those products! In Australia they have a very different policy than the PVV, but there is tobacco use among teenagers 6.7%. So that's 6.7% versus 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u185	Mrs. Agema, you may ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u186	Mr President, we promised you that the debate would not last long, and I am truly sorry that this embarrassing display is taking place here, but Mr Van Gerven is standing firm. He continues to compare hard drug use, so illegal products, with a legal product like tobacco. It is truly appalling that the SP here continues to trivialise this explosive increase in the use of hard drugs among young people, while this party was still so concerned about it this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u187	Mr Van Gerven may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u188	We're not playing games. I am just saying that you are making the wrong comparison and using the wrong figures, and that the PVV is playing down the harmful effects of smoking. It's not about whether smoking is legal or illegal. We all know that. It's about whether it's harmful. You should be a little more concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u189	That 60% comes from the Trimbos Institute. I didn't mention 12 to 18-year-olds. It was the young people who went to dance parties a lot, and that is what more and more young people do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u190	Aha! Aha.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u191	In the eighties that was a separate scene, but nowadays that is widespread. And you don't have to say "aha," because I didn't say that in my term. Don't accuse me of misusing facts, because I won't!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u192	This was a personal fact for a moment and there is no need to respond to it. Mr Van Gerven may continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u193	We therefore note that the 60% of 12- to 18-year-olds...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u194	Please continue your speech, Mr Van Gerven!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u195	We are going to continue to strengthen the policy of reducing smoking, as this is urgently needed. We're moving forward, but that's not enough. That's why I'm going to table three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is relatively easy for minors to purchase smoke products via the Internet;]] [[noting that the directive currently in force does not address tobacco sales via the Internet and therefore also to minors;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit tobacco sales via the Internet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some 2.5 billion in tobacco taxes are coming in each year;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is spending relatively little on smoking prevention;]] [[noting that 20 000 people die each year in the Netherlands from the effects of smoking and 100 young people start smoking every day;]] [[believes that we should make a strong effort to prevent smoking from starting;]] [[points out that 1% of tobacco taxes should be used to prevent smoking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a displayban greatly reduces the visibility of smoke products and thus reduces the temptation of smokers and potential smokers;]] [[Considering that discussions are now taking place between the Ministry and the supermarket industry, which should lead to a covenant on the displayban on 1 July 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to require a displayban in the absence of a covenant as of 1 July 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-18]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-19]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u196	Mr. Chairman. I would have mentioned a little more time than it says here on the display.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u197	I don't know how much time it says there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u198	It says three minutes. I hope this isn't a problem. I would very much like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given. I'd like to run a few more parts. I'll try to read my own handwriting. First of all, I would like to say a few words about tobacco vending machines. After the summer there will be a report on whether the sale is in order and therefore there will be no sale to young people under the age of 18. The Secretary of State indicated that he will check after the summer if there are enough improvements. My question remains what is sufficient. The Secretary of State has not yet replied. Maybe he can do that in the second term. My group believes that compliance should simply be in order and that there should be no more sales to young people under 18 years of age. I understand the vending machine industry wants to use scanners for age verification. According to one of the reports of the Trimbos Institute, however, they are not effective. The Secretary of State calls the people of the Trimbos Institute very professional and their reports scientifically sound. If we then know and there is such a report, do not give the vending machines industry time to work on a system that we already know will not work. The SP has tabled an amendment on this point. I wholeheartedly support that. In the first term, I said a lot about plain packaging. I will support the amendment tabled by the Labour Party and the CDA on this point. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to consult with the industry on the smoking area, because I can see now that there are smoking rooms and slot machines. So the smoking room is really a pub in the pub. Catering entrepreneurs themselves are also really a thorn in the eye. It creates unfair competition. So I ask the Secretary of State to send a letter to the Chamber following the conversation. I'm gonna file a motion anyway. Maybe I'll keep it on, but I'll give her an inspiration for the conversation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that smoking may still be allowed in the hospitality sector in a closed and designated room, i.e. a smoking room;]] [[noting that the current wording of the Decision implementing the Tobacco Act provides room for the catering industry to bring in a consumption and/or place a slot machine;]] [[Whereas, for reasons of public health, but also because of unfair competition, it is undesirable to make smoking spaces attractive;]] [[considers it important to avoid a "tub in the pub";]] [[requests the Government to amend the Decision implementing Tobacco Act in such a way as to allow smoking only in smoking rooms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u199	I'm getting to the point of the blurring. The Secretary of State said the Tobacco Act is a different law than the Drinking and Restaurant Act. I know that, of course. The Secretary of State also indicated that the Tobacco Act does not deal with a licensing system and that the Drinking and Restaurant Act does, also because of public order. I have previously advocated the introduction of a licensing system for the Tobacco Act, because both laws are addictive substances that you want to control sales. Unfortunately, that proposal did not come through the Chamber at the time. That is why I have a motion to try to take a step in the direction of avoiding blurring in tobacco. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Drinking and Catering Act does not allow for blurring, mixing functions, which prevents the sale of alcohol in bookshops, for example;]] [[Whereas, despite the proven adverse effects of tobacco on public health, there is no policy to reduce the number of outlets;]] [[considers that it is not consistent if "blurring" is not allowed in the case of alcohol, but in the case of tobacco;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways to counter "blurring" in tobacco and to inform the Government of this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u200	Mr. Chairman. I'm almost at the end. Three of my amendments have been welcomed by the Secretary of State. I'm really happy about that. I hope that these amendments will receive the support of the majority of the House. They deal with the rules for internet sales, no advertising of tobacco products in department stores and food stores and 100% non-smoking school grounds by 2020. On the last amendment, the Secretary of State made a comment. I would, of course, like to consider in the consultation with the Ministry whether we can take another step in the right direction in order to avoid any ambiguity. I have tabled another motion on additives and, in particular, menthol. The Secretary of State said he was bound by the directive, but it is not yet 2020. With regard to exceptions for Member States, there may still be a route in Europe. I'll file the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tobacco Products Directive provides for a transitional period for cigarettes and tobacco with a characteristic flavouring, the sales volume of which in the European Union is more than 3% in that particular category of product;]] [[noting that a transitional period is provided for giving consumers time to look for alternatives by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to shorten this transitional period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u201	Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna do anything about it. I'm not gonna do anything about it. My questions have all been answered. We'll get some information later. Finally, I say to Mr Van Gerven that I did not mention 12 to 18-year-olds. We didn't talk about that age group at all. They don't go to dance parties, they don't go to nightclubs. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u202	Clear, that point is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u203	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given and for the positive appreciation for the amendment that Mrs Volp and I have tabled. Mrs Volp is going to table two more motions that I have co-signed. Those motions are intended to ensure that the amendment is carefully introduced and that we can do so in a way that is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u204	Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. The Secretary of State has just stated once again that there will be a solid package of measures with this legislative amendment. I agree, but he knows the impatience of me and my party. He called the e-cigarette a step-off product. I think we share that this is important. It should not become a stepping product. What is now before us can contribute to that. In addition, the Secretary of State mentioned the importance of and-and. It is about providing information on the new rules; what do they mean? Take manufacturers and sellers with you. It is also about increasing consumer knowledge. I share the analysis that it is both necessary. I appreciate the Secretary of State's commitment to the specific risks for unborn babies and also the importance of informing on smoking parents. I'd like to make another suggestion: don't forget the fathers. This concerns both before and after conception. In other words, a free medical advice for the consultation which the Secretary of State is going to carry out. Fortunately, he also says that the display agreement is not non-binding. I'm really glad to hear that. The Secretary of State knows I'm standing next to him, or breathing down his neck, but I do want a firm covenant by 1 July. In the motion I'm going to table next to the other two, I'll take an advance on that. To reassure Mr Van Gerven: it is certainly not paps and wet. As regards compliance with the regulations on vending machines, the Secretary of State indicated that he had no expectations. Let us then express the hope that it will lead to a significant improvement. Here too, the non-committal phase is over. I hope so for the time being. I want my children and their peers to be part of a smoke-free generation. The amendment we tabled together with Mrs Bruins Slot from the CDA should help to ensure that no new temptation is created. I therefore welcome the State Secretary's assessment, as well as his commitment to gain more insight into and knowledge of what makes people start and stop. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sellers of tobacco or related products are working on a covenant to import a displayban;]] [[considers that exposure of children to tobacco products is undesirable because children are sensitive to brand recognition;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the covenant to introduce a displayban is established and informed to the Chamber by 1 July 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u205	Then there are the two motions with colleague Bruins Slot of the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tobacco industry regularly places attractive packaging with new distinctive brand elements on the market for tobacco or related products;]] [[calls on the Government, the General Measure of Management, to introduce requirements for new packaging and existing (packing) products, which take into account new developments and/or distinctive brand elements, by 1 October 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Volp and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall now make the final motion, again with Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that international experience shows that fair standard packaging (plain packaging) for tobacco or related products is considered less attractive;]] [[considers that packaging for tobacco or related products should be as unattractive as possible for young people considering starting smoking or for smokers considering stopping;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards mandatory fair standard packaging for all packages and (packing) products of tobacco or related products (provided that products are legally excluded) and to send a timetabled approach to the Chamber by 1 July 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Volp and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u207	Mr. Chairman. I also drew attention to pipe tobacco during my first term. In the Netherlands, a very limited number of companies still produce this. A minimum percentage of total tobacco production in this area is still taking place in the Netherlands. Pijproken has even been placed on the national inventory of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage. They did not respond in the consultation, but they were a number of companies. Given that Article 11 could be invoked for cigars with the same motivation, this should in fact be possible for pipe tobacco. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands large cigars are excluded from the obligation to use a combined health warning under Article 11 of the European Tobacco Products Directive;]] [[noting that large cigars are mainly used by a small group of older consumers;]] [[Whereas the same reasoning applies to pipe tobacco;]] [[Whereas a majority of European Member States use Article 11 of the European Tobacco Products Directive to exclude products;]] [[calls on the Government to also exempt pipe tobacco from the obligation to use a combined health warning under Article 11 of the European Tobacco Products Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziegs and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34234-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u208	Can the VVD explain to us what health purpose this motion serves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u209	The relationship with the motion has to do with the relationship laid down in the answer given by the Secretary of State when it comes to cigars. With the same motivation, we can also add pipe tobacco.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u210	I was expecting that answer. That is not the answer the VVD wants to give, because it does not serve a health purpose, but economic interests. This harms health. That's a sad conclusion. Health smokes at this point through the VVD a very heavy pipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u211	An interruption is meant for a question. I don't hear that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u212	I didn't hear the question either. I cannot therefore come to an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u213	Thank you for your input. The Secretary of State has indicated that it will take a short time to prepare his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u214	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber asked for the transitional period in the first term. That sentence is not contained in the explanatory memorandum. The Tobacco Production Directive states why an exception should be made. It was indeed stated in the recitals that consumers should have the time to get used to an alternative, or to be able to stop. This is not therefore stated in the explanatory memorandum, but is, among other things, a statement of reasons in the directive on additives. That is why this sentence is in the report. Mr Van Gerven had another question about a report. I don't think it's right to go over all kinds of draft reports again now. It is also very unusual to talk about draft reports. I would point out that the conclusion is the same. I would like to point out once again that everything has already been published on reichsoverheid.nl and is therefore visible to everyone. I now come to my explanation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u215	The Secretary of State repeats what he has said, namely that it can already be seen there and there. As far as I know, that draft report is not entirely on that. To my knowledge, a number of unrevealed e-mails are not on them. Moreover, a piece that is public somewhere is not yet a piece that can be used in the official movement between the Chamber and the Cabinet. I therefore ask the Secretary of State once again to do so. Does he not agree with me that we should not get certain things to us through WOB requests, but that this should simply be done in the orderly movement between Cabinet and Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u216	You're talking about a case from the past that's been extensively investigated. In normal traffic there is a discussion about reports, findings are under discussion and this leads to or does not lead to changes. The Court will eventually receive the reports drawn up by those who led the investigation. That's what we're discussing in the Chamber. Of course, we are not going to have a discussion about which draft reports are all there and what discussions they have led to. The Chamber will receive the reports that have been adopted. I note that there has been a WOB request and that it is all just public. If you have any questions about that, you can ask them. You can just watch. It seems to me to be an exaggeration that we should send a note on matters that are already public, with information where it is all there and where it can be found, although we often do so. You can simply ask further questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u217	This point seems to me to be sufficiently discussed once again. I suggest that the Secretary of State continues his appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u218	The motion in part No. 18 is about banning tobacco sales via the Internet. I have indicated that a ban increases the risk of illegal trafficking, while a registration requirement does not. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u219	This motion in part No. 18 So it is not recommended. This gives Mr Van Gerven the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u220	May I conclude from the Secretary of State's answer that he can, but he doesn't want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u221	We do not choose that variant because of the disadvantages attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u222	Then my observation is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u223	I shall leave the claim that this is true on behalf of Mr Van Gerven. Now the motion in part No. 19. There's a separation of income and expenditure. Tobacco taxes flow to the richkas. We have agreed a good budgetary policy, in which income and expenditure are not mixed. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u224	Mr Van Gerven also gave rise to a question by dissuading the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u225	That's a procedural answer. I am concerned about the content of the motion. That means that far too little money goes to tobacco prevention. It's gonna take him for an extra 25 million. Is the Secretary of State prepared to bring 25 million to the table in a different way, so that we can actually do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u226	That's not what this motion is about. But the Secretary of State may, of course, respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u227	If Mr Van Gerven feels the challenge of suggesting at our next budget discussion that we spend more money on tobacco control, then I look forward to his proposals, provided they are adequately covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u228	Is that enough invitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u229	That is certainly enough invitation, also to respond. This motion indicates a cover. It says:'says that 1% of tobacco taxes should be used to prevent smoking'. The Secretary of State also knows that proposals have been made in the Cabinet to increase excise duties in order to finance certain items. So I think it's a very lame argument. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u230	I don't hear a question in it. The Secretary of State may comment on the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u231	Let's not qualify each other's arguments! I come to speak about the motion on item No. 20, in which the government is asked to continue to require a display ban on failure to reach a covenant on 1 July. We have just agreed to give the industry the opportunity to come to an agreement. I do not think it is in line with the agreements that we have made at that point, to say by way of a motion that a display ban should be proclaimed. Moreover, we also have another motion that evokes urge on the display ban, so to speak. I'll be back to talk about that later. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 21 is proposed to amend the Decision implementing Tobacco Act in such a way as to allow smoking only in smoking rooms. I indicated in the debate that I would like to talk to the industry. I've agreed to inform the Chamber about that. I'd like to ask the applicant to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u232	That is a question for Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u233	I'd like to hold the motion. When does the Secretary of State expect to be able to inform the Chamber? Is that for the summer, for example? That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u234	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (3423), No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u235	I'm afraid to say that. Let me try to do that around the summer. In the motion in part No. 22 is requested to identify ways of combating blurring in tobacco. There's a point of principle. That discussion about blurring has been called. People ask: what about the licensing system and the mixing of permits with things you don't need a permit for? It's really different with tobacco. You can't really speak of blurring because there are different systems. It's just products you can sell that don't require a license. You can't indicate where you can or can't do that, as you can in the Drinking and Restaurant Act. That is why it seems incredibly complicated to me to map all of this. I would therefore like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u236	Mr Ziegs, I see that you want to respond to this. It's not your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u237	I'm asking for clarification. It's a very strange motion. The operative part states "calls on the government to identify the "blurring" of tobacco and to inform the government of this before the summer of 2016.' You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u238	This will undoubtedly require a drafting amendment. It's a good thing you're pointing that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u239	In any case, the government is well informed!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u240	I assume that "the government" should be changed to "the Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u241	I will, of course, modify that textually. I apologize for that. Let me make it clear that the Secretary of State and I simply do not agree on the substance. For me, it is not the question of whether or not a permit is needed, leading the rules and everything around them, but simply the fact that products are addictive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u242	That's clear. The conclusion is that the motion in part No. 22 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u243	We also discussed in the debate what was said in the motion for a resolution on item No. 23. The transitional period is a direct result of the Tobacco Products Directive. I want to implement it, too. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. In the motion in part No. 24 another request is made about the covenant regarding the display ban. It states that it has been agreed to come to a covenant, that we will look at the situation by 1 July at the latest and that the Chamber will then have to be informed on that point. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber. I would, of course, like to inform the Chamber about the outcome of the consultation on the covenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u244	Non-verbal, I can see that this is the correct interpretation. That is why the motion for a resolution in part No. 24 received the opinion of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u245	In the motion-Volp/Browns Slot to piece No. 25 a time limit is set for the requested AMvB. It says "to be put into effect by 1 October 2016 at the latest'. I'm asking if that could be changed to "to hang out." Why? Because due to the notification of the rules to the European Commission, entry into force on 1 October is not expected to be feasible. If the text can be amended to that effect, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u246	I conclude from the non-verbal communication that the editors are adapted in this way. So instead of "initiating," it becomes "to hang up." That means that this motion has in part no. 25 received the opinion of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u247	In the motion-Volp/Browns Slot to piece No. 26 actually says that on 1 July 2016 we will send a plan of action with a timetable to the Chamber. That's a vigorous motion. An amendment has been tabled to create an AMvB, with a slight veil if the amendment makes it. I would like to suggest to the authors that they hold this motion until we have the discussion on the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u248	Are the petitioners prepared to hold this motion until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u249	Perhaps I could return to the previous motion for a moment. Can we put the deadline forward a little bit? We are talking about 1 October. This was partly on the basis of the time that might be needed for this. Now we're gonna add the front. We understand that, but can we do that until July 1st? Then we can hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u250	Then we get into trouble because of the notification procedures that are necessary for the deadlines for introduction. We really need the time until 1 October, because of the notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u251	I would once again urge the Secretary of State to do so as soon as possible, with the understanding that we are also monitoring the notification so that we can put this motion to the vote as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u252	At the request of Mrs Volp, I propose her motion (3423), No. 26). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u253	Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Zieggens/Van Vliet on pipe tobacco. I understand Mr Ziengs' motives. I do find it difficult, because the consultation has shown that there is an argument about the implementation consequences and the target group, whereas the implementation problems in this category have not been identified and therefore pose a legal risk for a precedent. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u254	Thank you all for the input, interest and support. I would like to thank the executive for his reply. The votes on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions will take place next Tuesday. I wish you a good journey home and a good, blessed night's sleep.
