ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister in our midst.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. This summer, after ten years of battle, the House opened for whistleblowers. What I would have liked to have stood beside the minister to ring the opening bell together, but the minister got it to his heart. I sincerely hope that was not caused by us. The Minister has had a rough summer and I am glad that he has returned in one piece and full of energy. For years I pulled on one side of the rope and the minister on the other, until the First Chamber forced us to pull together because the interests of whistleblowers are greater than the political contradictions between us. It wasn't a mild delivery. Immediately after birth I had to give up my love baby again, because the minister had to set up the House for whistleblowers. How's it going? Are reports handled properly and detectors adequately protected? How does cooperation with other organisations work? Does the House have enough people and resources to do their own research? The House for Whistleblowers is mainly intended for new reports of wrongdoing, but there are still many old wrongdoings that have not yet been resolved or which the reporters are still suffering from. Their lives have been in ruins for decades. Is the Minister prepared, together with the House of whistleblowers, to set up a sort of coldcase team for major old whistleblower cases to learn from mistakes and provide redress? A special case is that of Frits Veerman, who, 40 years ago, revealed an atomic espionage that helped Pakistan to create an atomic bomb called an "Islamic bomb" in that country. Pakistani spy Abdul Khan stole information about ultracentrifugation at URENCO in Almelo. In his own words, he has sold these secrets to Iran, North Korea and Libya, among others. He also had contact with Al Qaeda. Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers revealed in 2005 that the Dutch government had knowledge of this espionage, but Khan allowed it to go ahead on behalf of the Americans. Veerman was a close colleague of Khan and reported the espionage, but ended up in the Bijlmerbajes himself. Veerman was fired and has been bearing the consequences of doing his civic duty for 40 years. I am pleased that Frits Veerman has asked the House for whistleblowers to conduct an investigation. I ask the Minister to assure me that the government will not try to influence this. I also want a substantive study of this international nuclear espionage. I want to know why our government has never acted against this and let this spy go. Is the Minister prepared to ask the CTIVD to investigate this espionage affair? Has the minister seen Oliver Stone's movie Snowden? That's highly recommended. The film is about a young patriot who went to work at the NSA out of patriotic love, but couldn't bear to see what he was seeing there. The NSA can also track Dutch citizens anytime and anywhere, for example via computer or telephone. The NSA can access all the information, but it can also manipulate it. Not only potential attackers, but also our politicians, entrepreneurs, scientists and journalists are the subject of espionage if the NSA considers it necessary for the interests of America. I was reminded of the hearings we have organised here and of the experts we have heard. I was reminded of the debate we had at our request in April 2014. While watching that movie, however, I was especially reminded of the deafening silence I have heard in the Chamber since then. A government that is silent when it appears that our digital sovereignty is under threat. Some debate has been held in America and some rules have been adapted, but foreigners, including Dutch, are still outlawed. Our security is still in the hands of an all-powerful organization, the NSA, which will soon be in the hands of the erratic President Trump. What has the Minister done since the debate in April 2014? What actions have been taken in those two and a half years? When is our government finally prepared to grant Edward Snowden asylum? Of course, there is also a great danger from the other side. Yesterday there was reports about Russian hackers. The director of the German secret service, the BND (Bundesnachrichtendienst), warns that in the coming election year Russian hackers may be active in influencing the elections, not only by stealing information but also by spreading misinformation, as probably happened in the United States. Is the AIVD aware of this, too? How does the Minister see the danger to the Netherlands? Does he think there is a danger in the forthcoming elections in March and in the campaign that Russian hackers want to influence our democratic process? Has the government been in contact with political parties? What's the government's scenario to prevent this? I come to other democratic processes. Does the Minister know the video of the D66 council member from Hellendoorn who proudly said that the municipality has pocketed €45,000 of the €61,000 for the Ukraine referendum? Zutphen, Pijnacker-Nootdorp and many other municipalities have also made half of the referendum and put money into their own pockets. I ask the Minister about which municipalities are involved. I also ask the Minister to have these municipalities repay it to the last penny. Money intended for the referendum has been spent on other matters. The Minister also knows the stories of the mayor who said he couldn't open enough polling stations because there wasn't enough money. The Chamber then insisted on extra money. Now it turns out it was just unwillingness of mayors who have an opinion instead of doing their job. I also hear reports that in the forthcoming elections in March, municipalities are planning to set up fewer polling stations. Did the Minister hear those noises? Can he assure us that this will not be the case? Can he assure us that there will be as many polling stations in the March elections as there will be in the previous national elections? Then there are also discussions about voting boards that are no longer put out and about all kinds of other matters. Can the Minister assure us that we are not going to cut back on access to our democracy and that he is going to act against municipalities that want to set up fewer polling stations? The Minister is working hard to strengthen local government. Aldermen are becoming more and more executives of decisions taken elsewhere in regional contexts. People's representatives are becoming more and more popular officials, who are sitting late to meet but are increasingly less and less. Does the Minister see with me that his policy is partly responsible for this, that the decentralisation of care tasks has laid a whole new management layer on the municipalities of expensive consultants and smart advisors? They pay dearly for their cheap chatter and send officials on a course of €8,000 per person on how to make citizens happy, with lucky coordinators, fortune budgets and the designation of happiness spots in the municipality that would increase luck for every citizen. Does the Minister know these people? They send local directors on expensive courses to find out if their congregation of the future will be an Ikhoven or a Mergendam, or perhaps become a State Castle. Does the Minister know the examples of council members who get an expensive master class in which they hear things like: decisions are not taken, but happen to us? Yeah, those councilmen would've figured that out by now. I would like to ask the Minister whether this kind of chat can be over. Can't the Ministry even stop letting hardworking people be harassed by people who have read a management book? Will the Minister please free the local government from this chatty class? I was shocked by a message in De Telegraaf from a journalist who made a portrait of the Secretary of Defense. The ministry seems to have placed phone records of employees alongside those of the journalist in an attempt to reveal anonymous sources. This was not about a state secret, but about the image of the minister. That's impossible, isn't it? Can the Minister respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands regularly has to deal with government services, whether they are seeking an identity card, making a tax return or making a declaration of birth or death. We prefer to handle our business online today, especially when it is easier and faster than offline. However, the VVD wonders whether our data is safe and with whom it is shared. The government agreement states that everyone should be able to handle their business with the government digitally from 2017. There are many initiatives, such as User Central, and the number of connections to the basic infrastructure is growing, but the government still threatens to miss the digital boat. On the rankings of the most digital countries, the Netherlands is still in the top ten, but it is rapidly declining. The helm has to be turned. This is why the VVD will focus on the very urgent need to respond to the rapid digital developments around us. A transition to a digital government leads to profound disruptions of traditional processes and requires a firm approach to organisations, processes, people and culture. The current approach is too slow, too focused on projects and too old-fashioned. We are putting the contents of CDs on a hard drive while the world around us is working with Spotify. The government must now make the battle to become truly digital. The keywords are ease, speed and reliability. However, we should not forget to facilitate those groups that may not be so convenient with the computer. I recently saw a nice development of digital services in healthcare. There are various platforms in healthcare. Through these platforms, chronic patients can upload the results of measurements they have made at home and pass on any changes in well-being to the hospital. A necessary change in medication can take place within 45 minutes instead of within three days. This requires a different organisational structure at the hospital, other roles and functions and a different way of working for the doctors and laboratory workers involved. The login must also be safe, better than the current DigiD. That's what people are all about. If it doesn't get there soon, all these hospitals are gonna come up with their own safe DigiDs. That is the consequence: if the government goes crazy, the world is going to build up its own systems, which can or cannot be brought together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	I was a little triggered by the words "safe," "fast" and "easy" and by the apps that would send data from us to and from hospitals. I have just devoted a huge questionnaire to this, because it is going very badly there. On the one hand, I hear the VVD pleading for greater ease for the citizen, but on the other hand the story stands to ensure good safety. That hasn't been settled yet. Mrs de Caluwe speaks to the Minister for the Interior, but it is ultimately about the whole society we are dealing with at the moment. That train is driving like crazy now. We're also talking about safety. My question concerns another aspect. We're working on the law on computer crime. The VVD wants the government to install backdoors in software, making that software even less reliable. How can a party that talks about security on the one hand say that it will be made less safe for the citizen in this way while on the other hand saying that it wants to run very fast and put everything in an app? How does the VVD rhyme these two things?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	One doesn't have to rule out the other. For the sake of safety, it cannot be that we say: then we do not move, then we wait. The world around us is changing. I absolutely agree with Mrs Oosenbrug that it must be safe. That is why we always say that the basis must be in order. That is what we have said about the eID. The base must be in order. It's gotta be safe. It must be clear in advance what conditions and safety requirements there are and how privacy is secured. That's gotta be really safe. That does not mean, however, that we must stand still and therefore do not make any changes. Otherwise, the world around us is going to do that and the government is going to go after it. So you're gonna fix it at the back instead of organizing it at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mrs. Oosenbrug, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yeah, rounding it up. I agree that the basis should be in order. But what is happening now is that we are going to amend all kinds of legislation on all sides. I believe that there is a little coordination problem here and that we do indeed need someone who is coordinating a task. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	I think Mrs Oosenbrug is right to say that this coordination can definitely be strengthened. This is also demonstrated by the fact that there are so many different people, organisations and ministries involved. Coordination can still be strengthened and at some point there must also be a certain power of perseverance with one minister who indicates how we are going to do it. This can prevent you from installing safety on one side and running too slowly on the other. I will continue my speech. Systems must be more compatible. That's what we see with the eID. One system it had to be, with multiple means. What do we see now? Multiple resources, own systems and a set of basic conditions that hopefully six months before the implementation of the entire project will finally come about. Another long-term project is the Basic Registration Persons (BRP). In August, KPMG presented a report stating that the code generators "Those are the generators to which the software is being hung" were removed from the project and replaced by a manually encrypted model. What impact does this have on the duration of the project and on the costs? Does that have consequences and, if so, which ones? After all, we are already running hopelessly and the project is already three times over in terms of costs. It is high time for action in the area of digitalisation. In doing so, we need to look in particular at the needs of citizens, such as the desire to have control over their own data. Can I see, for example, who looked at my data in the long term? And how are we going to settle this in a simple way and at a low cost? Another question is whether in the future, for example, I can choose to have my name, address and residence data from the BRP passed on to civil society organisations of my choice. It would be easy if I didn't have to e-mail the sports club, the library and the church separately in a move. That's innovative digitalization that really adds something. The VVD wants a much more assertive approach for the future and has the following concrete proposals for this. The desired innovations I have just mentioned require a different view on the matter. In the UK, a group of creative, innovative ICTs are working on the development of new, groundbreaking digital pathways for government. So I am not in favour of yet another Directorate-General. On a small scale and with a small budget, very nice things can be invented. What's the Minister's position on that? That doesn't have to cost anything extra, it simply earns back by saving on the current expensive routes. In addition to the next digi-year programme of the Ministry, the Minister must also look at the longer term, say five years. That's a very long term in ICT. That must be a look-through with concrete goals, roadmaps and resources. The use of digitalisation requires a corresponding budget. Now that the business case eID has been created, the ICT budget from 2018 doesn't even prove sufficient to hold that eID in the air, let alone the rest of the digital infrastructure. It is also necessary to indicate which services are to be provided to the Dutch and what consequences this has for ICT, the working methods and the human resources, including knowledge and skills. Can the Minister undertake to do this? Digitisation projects need much more thinking from the citizen. This is not about what the government is offering, but about what facilitates citizens. In this context, for example, the VVD wants us all to be able to actively identify, in the long term, what data we share with which social institutions are shared, both ad hoc and structural. Now you can only view data via my.overheid.nl, but you can't actively do anything with it. The Special Forces I just mentioned could work that out. What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'd really like the customer to be the key keeper. Some time ago, I tabled a motion to make this possible. I had exactly the same reasons as Mrs De Caluwé has just mentioned. The customer must see at all times what happens to his data, who looks into his file and why he has looked into it, so that the customer can control it. Does the VVD intend to make such a proposal, so that we can hang out together? Then perhaps the motion can also be passed. Last time the VVD voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's right. We did indeed vote against last time, because the point was that you could have access to who looks into your data in the short term. The Minister has rightly indicated that this would be a very large and very expensive project. That is why I have also indicated that it would be very nice to appoint a special unit to see how this can be done in the long term at low costs and in a fairly easy way. If we had it figured out and it happened at low cost in the long run, we would be able to find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	In the end, it's about the goal, and we share that goal. I think we'll figure it out. We're gonna make the customer key keeper and we're gonna make sure he knows exactly what's going on with his data and that he can control it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	I didn't hear a question right away. That is why I give Mrs Oosenbrug an opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	I had to let it work on me for a while. I heard about a small unit with smart thinkers. Of course, I'm always in favour of that. I'm just wondering what's going on here. We also tried this at the ICT Testing Office (BIT). We said, "Come on, put people out there; put creative thinkers in those who know things." In this case, Minister Blok is responsible for this and officials are placed there. I won't say anything to the detriment of officials. I know a lot of enthusiastically thought-provoking, good officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	Those officials have united in Pleio as well. Aren't we gonna recreate something that's long gone? Is a "digidendktank" I just throw this concept into... isn't it very interesting when there are people from outside? You shouldn't want to hire them inside the government, should you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	I actually hear two questions here. The first question is about the BIT we rigged. In the beginning, there were mostly civil servants. That is also what the Minister for Housing and National Service has indicated. After that, he supplemented it with people from outside. That's what I had to do. It had to be a interaction between people inside and people outside. The BIT is there to look at projects before they start. So this has a different role to the role of the group I am proposing. This is about the whizzkids. Mr Elias, the Chairman of the Temporary Committee on ICT, called them "the boys with the hats backwards on their heads." It's about people who think about what you could do with the digital government and what projects it could deliver. In England, this has led to 20 concrete proposals. This is more about substantive proposals than about what BIT does, namely checking that projects are okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	The BIT is indeed an example: all good intentions, but in the end it doesn't come out completely. Mrs. De Caluwe always mentions, like so many people, the smart guys, but I'm gonna lance for the smart women. In that respect, I would point out the Dutch Women in cyber security. Although these women do not wear caps backwards on their heads, they have discovered, for example, that there are incredibly many leaks in hospitals and apps. They're creative thinkers. You shouldn't want to hire the government and put it behind a desk, because then creativity will be lost. I'm trying to make that clear. You can fly these people in any time. They're always willing to come out here and take the Bits of Freedom, the Women in cyber security, but don't take them. That's my plea. I support the warm feeling of the VVD, but don't hire these people. Fly them in once in a while. Ask them and take a look. That doesn't have to cost anything. I know that community. On the contrary, these people want to ensure that we all create a safer and cheaper world when it comes to ICT. So I don't have a question. It's more of a warm plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'd still like to comment. Mrs Oostenburg's first point is entirely justified. It's also about pretty girls, handsome in their heads that you can put on them. Then something about hiring. I'm sure there's talk to me about whether or not you should hire those people. I advocate attracting people from outside. Do you have to hire them? Maybe not. If you go for a changing composition because you have a different need each time, for which you need different expertise, then you have to hire other ladies and gentlemen. I'm sure there's talk to me about not hiring those people. I will continue my speech. Currently, municipalities are working on joining the digital infrastructure. However, not all municipalities do this yet. They're hooked up, but they're not all working with it yet. The central government cannot impose this. However, there is a need to agree on one format. The Dutchman suffers if not all governments can exchange information, because that is precisely the intention of the BRP. This will also enable the information to be made available. According to the Veldman/Oosenbrug motion adopted unanimously, the government must establish a common framework of standards applied by all public institutions. A number of principles have been formulated, but they leave room for differentiation. How is the Minister going to reach these necessary agreements? Part of the Digital Government is the open government. In the framework of open government, Mr Veldman, among others, has tabled a number of motions which were able to count on a firm majority. However, the Minister is not always clear in his letter following the motions. I have some questions about that. The Minister, together with other public authorities, must organize the information system and draw up an action plan for this purpose. What's the status of this? The Minister has promised to produce further results in 2016 on efforts to pool financial resources for the digital infrastructure. How's that going? The Minister has entered into consultation with the VNG to improve the application of open standards by municipalities. For this purpose, the Minister would lay down a legal basis in the General Digital Infrastructure Act. This law will come to the Chamber in December, but is it now in the Chamber? All these things are needed to keep pace with the rapid developments in ICT. I look forward to the answers with interest. Another thing about the subcluster Housing, Spatial Planning and Urban Renewal of the Municipal Fund. The Minister decided to redistribute a second 33% tranche and not to carry out a third 33% tranche. The VVD understands that from the point of view of avoiding excessive annual fluctuations. A lot of municipalities are asking for that, too. The VVD would like the last 33% to be included in the review which is currently being worked on, on the basis of last year's Veldman motion, in which a review of the Gemeentefonds was requested. Can the Minister give an opinion on the inclusion of redistribution in that complete review?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. In 2012, this parliament had big plans with the public administration: the wild provinces merge, as well as parts of the country. It wanted to blow up municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. There would be new ballots, which is rumbling in the margins. The highest administrative ruling would be reorganised, while the Netherlands scored well on the European barometer. The highest administrative court has become the playball of the coalition. There would be a quarter fewer city council members and a quarter fewer provincial statesmen. How can you see the people's representatives at a time when the citizens are crying out louder than ever before? We are now four years ahead and it is time to take stock of the situation: there have been no super-provincies and municipalities and no new ballots have been issued. The highest rule of law still functions as usual and the number of representatives of the people has been maintained. That is what the CDA Group has been committed to. What is good must be preserved and innovation must make a substantial contribution to the inhabitants or society as a whole. How do you come up with the idea of recklessly cutting back on the AIVD, an important knowledge-intensive organisation, at a time of social unrest and national security risks? If we had not immediately called the bell, the cuts in this cabinet would have continued with all the consequences for the security of all our inhabitants. Now the Foreign Minister wants to seriously consider a European CIA. What is the view of the Minister of the Interior as responsible for the AIVD? And then there's the referendum the CDA has always been against. This cabinet also signed the consultative referendum. One day after the Ukraine referendum, exactly on April 7th, the minister for the NOS camera said that we need to look again at the Referendum law. He said the rules are confusing for some. They should therefore be reviewed for future referenda. We have not yet seen any proposals from the cabinet. I would like a response from the Minister. What is the Minister himself proud of when he looks back on this cabinet period? What has the Minister achieved in concrete terms for our citizens over the past four years? Looking back, this cabinet has little regard for rural regions. These regions still have 80% of the inhabitants of the Netherlands and 20% live in the ten largest cities. As an example, I mention the situation in the South of the Netherlands, which was affected earlier this year by hail and water damage. The impact on the affected families is enormous. There are people who are hard-working entrepreneurs and there are people who earn their living from or from these entrepreneurs. These people feel abandoned by the Empire. Only Secretary of State Van Dam came to take a look. He immediately said he couldn't do anything for these people. Unfortunately, we have not seen or heard the Minister of State responsible for the entry into force of the emergency law. The Secretary of State for EZ said I'm not here for the farmers. Does the Secretary of State say I'm not here for the citizens? Then there's the precario charge. The Minister recently sent a bill to the Chamber to abolish municipal taxes on cables, pipes, gas, water and light. That is a good thing, but in the meantime an average household will pay as much as €50 more for gas and light. Because the minister has hesitated for so long, even more municipalities will raise precario, or they will even increase the rates. Many municipalities started raising precario this year. It's still going on. The submission of the bill does not seem to act as a brake, but rather as an incentive to introduce the precario charge quickly or to increase the precario rate. With a transitional period of no less than ten years, this continues to pay for the neighbouring municipalities. Is this what the Minister calls solidarity? Does this policy not undermine the distribution system of the Municipal Fund? I would like a response from the Minister. Then the regions. The regions are not the backyard of the Randstad. The CDA believes that urban and rural areas should not be sidelined, but that one should strengthen the other. There are enormous economic growth opportunities in the regions. The Van Zwol report that we once looked at and discussed clearly shows this. Municipalities, provinces and the Empire have to move together. And the foundation of this cooperation is trust. This confidence is undermined if municipalities in the region feel that financial resources are not being distributed fairly. An example is the distribution within the Cluster Housing, Spatial Planning and Urban Renewal of the Municipal Fund. No less than three research reports show that the distribution has to be different. The VNG, the representative of the municipalities, believes that the distribution should be different. And what does the Minister say? He thinks it's only two-thirds different. Does the Minister understand why people think: in The Hague they do what they want? This way you don't buy trust in each other. Municipalities with a large outdoor area should also be able to maintain their own infrastructure, greening and waterworks in tight times. The impact of non-transmitting the new distribution is considerable. A medium-sized town like the Limburg Venray runs a total of 0.5 million per year. The CDA Group therefore asks this minister to implement fully the proposed new distribution of the municipal fund. Then the digital government. We are on the eve of 2017, on the eve of Digital 2017. Citizens should be able to do all their business with the government digitally from 2017. The CDA Group supports this ambition, but in our opinion the impact is far too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	I have another question on the previous point, the redistribution of the Community fund. Mr Amhaouch says that Venray, for example, misses a lot of money. If you redistribute now, you'll have to change your fluctuations again. Maybe Venray's gonna get something, but a neighborhood's gonna get something off. Will Mr Amhaouch also take care of this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	Of course we want to do that, or the Minister must have another solution. There are three reports. The Minister himself asked for an investigation. If you ask for advice from three bodies, the Financial Relations Council and a number of other organisations, then you cannot say: I am only going to do so in part. About 10% of the municipalities will decline, but 90% of the municipalities will improve. That is a piece of solidarity and the studies have shown that the distribution is not fair today. When you say "A," say "B."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	Finishing Mrs. De Caluwe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	What does Mr Amhaouch think of the call from the more than 200 aldermen who have stood here and who have said: please do not work with fluctuations again, because we are dealing with this uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	The mailbox has been filled with messages from aldermen and mayors of all kinds of parties since the beginning of this year, who simply want a fair distribution. I'm getting totally different signals. The representative of the interests of VNG says on behalf of the municipalities: "Dear Minister, the municipalities have adopted this motion, carry out this redistribution and ensure trust in the municipalities."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	For the sake of care of the debate: didn't the administrative part of the UNG just say that you shouldn't do that now? Has there not been a 51% vote against 49% at the UN Council of Members? So should we not also note that the municipalities are also very divided? Aren't those the facts? I'd like to look it up, but I think that's the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	The fact is that the VNG has adopted a motion. Let us not end up here in games in The Hague and ask whether a motion has been adopted with a little more or a little less. If we adopt a motion in this Chamber, we shall take a motion. So I find it very strange that the PvdA should now divide between municipalities and within the VNG about that motion. The motion has been passed. Mrs. Fokke acknowledges that, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	The funny thing is, I don't play The Hague games at all. I am observing what is happening in the county, and I say that this motion was adopted by 51%. I don't think you've heard me say anything but that. I also say that 49% apparently did not agree. We have to note that, and this is not a game of the Hague, the municipalities are apparently also divided over the Gemeentefonds. Isn't it wise to face the fact that there's a lot of discussion about that portion? Last year, the Chamber adopted the Wolbert/Veldman motion. Let's take a look at it. The recalibrate is coming, let us take the last portion and let us make it clear once and for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	The municipalities are not divided. That is absolutely not the case. More than 60% or 70% of the municipalities are in favour of this redistribution, apart from percentages. Of course there are a number of big cities against; I understand that. And they count heavily in the mood. But the Minister of the Interior is all about almost 400 municipalities. He has to make that decision. That's important! We await the Minister's response in his term. I will continue with the subject of "digital government." What digital products has the Minister delivered so far? The Dutch business community is taking major steps forward in the area of digitalisation, but the government is lagging behind. How does the Minister see that? The government has to be there for everyone. But when digitalising, we have to use the brains. Last year it appeared that the Tax Administration had not thought about all the consequences of abolishing the blue envelope. What does the Minister do for the more than 1.2 million people in the Netherlands without the internet? The CDA group also lacks momentum and direction in the cabinet when it comes to voting with electronic tools. The equipment the minister is looking for with his market demand has long been on the market. Recently, the Minister announced that the follow-up will be launched this year. Can he promise to finish his job in this area? Also eID, the intended successor of DigiD, comes but not from the ground. The minister is overtaken by the banks with iDIN. If this goes on for a long time, we'll only be able to log in to the government with a bank card. As long as eID doesn't work, we need to use DigiD. How much longer can that be? Is DigiD's safety still secure at the necessary level? In addition, I would like to say the following. In October, the Prime Minister received the report "The Netherlands digital dry feet" from the Cyber Security Council. What measures does the Minister of the Interior take to ensure digital security in the public domain? Finally, I would like to comment on the state committee on the parliamentary system. We would have liked to have discussed this with colleagues before the cabinet started to work on it. The coalition obviously didn't feel like it. That is why I am asking today: where are the good intentions of the cabinet on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr President, I have a question on the last point that Mr Amhaouch raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u30	But Mrs Oosenbrug was already at the microphone. I assume she wants to ask a question about an earlier point. That is why she has the floor first, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u31	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yesterday we also had a nice debate on eID, but for Europe. There I have already asked a CDA colleague from Mr Amhaouch questions. I also hear the CDA saying again: a safe digital world begins with a well-encrypted digital world. The CDA is in favour of abolishing encryption. The CDA wants no more use of encryption. How can the CDA, on the one hand, ask for the building of a safer digital world for citizens, and, on the other hand, call for the further undressing of precisely that security of the digital world?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u33	Of course, Mrs Oosenbrug comes back to that encryption every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u34	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u35	If encryption is needed to ensure national security or to ensure economic security for business, then we need to take action on that point. The CDA expects the cabinet and the minister to come up with concrete, good plans for the public domain. It is important for the Minister to speed up this process, because we are being overtaken by business. The report presented by the Cyber Security Council also states that both business and government need to invest substantially to make it safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u36	On the one hand, there is the political choice of money. I get that now, after four years of The Hague. On the other hand, safety also has to do with good legislation. Good safety legislation is certainly very important, but do not break it on the other side by saying: we want to abolish encryption. Encryption is precisely one of the technologies that is proven to be useful. Encryption just works. Encryption was conceived by business and the community itself. Then don't break that! I'll make a warm plea for that. I don't have any further questions. But let Mr Amhaouch think about this kind of legislation for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u37	That was a call, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u38	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to respond to this. Mrs Oosenbrug now blames the CDA for everything. I've been in the Chamber for nine months. Mrs Oosenbrug's party has been in the coalition for four years. It could also have made a good deal of progress in this area and ensured that the minister would deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u39	I would like to draw the attention of the CDA to the many, many, many questions that I have asked over the last four years, to all the motions I have tabled and to everything that the government has taken up in response to my questions and my comments. I'm picking up this glove. I did, and I keep doing it. I continue to steer where I can, and I make very nice motions about it, which unfortunately are not always supported by the CDA. So I did my best, even as a coalition partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr Bosma may now make his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u41	Just a moment of peace and quiet, after this neighborly fight. Mr Amhaouch said something about the state committee. That is a very good point to make, because that state committee is going to look at the whole establishment of the public administration and the First Chamber. This is mainly from the First Chamber itself, because the VVD is actually against the Upper Chamber, but does not dare to say that out loud. The solution is then a state committee. What's the CDA gonna do with that state committee? I think it's a bit of a waste of time. We'll see what kind of compromise comes out of this. It's always gonna be a dromedary, while a horse was ordered. Will the CDA be actively involved in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u42	We took the initiative in this Chamber a few weeks ago to hold a debate on this with our colleagues in the Chamber. Unfortunately, that request was swept off the table by the coalition. It is also incomprehensible to us that, as a Chamber, we cannot debate the letter sent by the First Chamber, which deals with parliamentary democracy and the institution in the future. That is why I ask the Minister how he sees this further and what follow-up steps he intends to take. We will then consider that as a CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u43	That is an excellent question and I am also waiting for the answer with sorrow. It's been really weird. In a procedural meeting, not yet in the round question, it was asked: who else has anything? A state committee. Okay. That's what I think happened. That's crazy. My question is again what the CDA will do next. That committee is probably going to be there, and all the state lawyers are going to be interesting in that. Most of those people are always members of D66, so you know. Is the CDA going to join this state committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u44	We shall first await the Minister's response in this area. We have tried a number of times to have this debate. Mr Bosma asks what we are going to do. Of course, we consider it important to participate in such a state committee, especially when it comes to the parliamentary system. However, we regret that the coalition parties wiped out the other parties' proposal, which I believe were all for a debate. That's incomprehensible. I agree. I think even Mr Van Raak agreed with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u45	Well, well, well. Mr Van Raak also reports to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u46	Yeah, 'cause it stays quiet. We could say: this is a proposal that is now being made. We'll ask everyone to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u47	It's not a point of order. You are at the microphone to ask Mr Amhaouch a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u48	If Mr Van Raak asks me if we should table a motion together again in order to be able to hold the debate, then we should see if we can do so in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u49	I'm gonna turn it around. I can answer that in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u50	Will you conclude your speech now, Mr Amhaouch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u51	I do come to my conclusion, Mr President. This Minister of the Interior has not implemented many bad plans from the coalition agreement, but many good plans have also remained. The coalition agreement was called "Bruggen slamming." The CDA Group would like to appeal to the Minister: come forward today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr. Chairman. Democracy has gone to the ballot box more than once every four years. At local level, there are many initiatives to involve people more in decision-making in a municipality, for example through a G1000. In the meantime, the Ministry has consulted municipalities on an experimental law. We also have the Van der Donk report, the VNG has turned on a think tank and recently we saw the publications of Code Orange. There is one thing all sides agree on, namely that something must change, that other ways of involving people in decision-making must be found alongside representative democracy. As far as the PvdA is concerned, that's good news. So let's take that glove together and take action. After all, paper is patient. Let us really do this from the bottom up by letting the representatives of the people pull the cart at the local level. My party colleague Joop van den Berg was critical in his column last week, but as far as I'm concerned this is something to think about. He wrote: "Ask any club of mayors in the Netherlands to explain their ideas about democracy and they will immediately start to abolish all or part of the city council. With dreams of'self-acting' by the people as an alibi, proposals are made for 'participation' by citizens in a kind of 'direct democracy', in whole or in part to replace the parliament."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u53	It is very nice to ask the mayors, but those mayors themselves have a democratic deficit, because they have not been elected at all. All over the world, except in North Korea and the Netherlands, mayors are simply elected. This is the only place they'll be parachuted. They're just from the PvdA network. All those people who are now in the PvdA and who will soon, on 15 March, hopefully get banged out, mayor, unsolicited, unelected and unwanted. Would it not be good if we could vote on who will be mayor, who will be the highest representative in every municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u54	In my view, Mr Bosma is asking a little bit about the familiar path, because I think Mr Bosma knows that there is a D66 initiative proposal. He's been in the Chamber for some time, but maybe this went past him. So I think we're gonna talk about the mayor's position soon. Perhaps Mr Bosma did not listen to my speech either, because I am saying that it should not be the mayor who is thinking about this and that we should include the representatives of the people at the local level. In my view, therefore, Mr Bosma and I agree on this point on democracy and on how we should all think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mrs Fokke just said: "Let's take the drivers at local level," but the drivers at local level are much further ahead. They already do all kinds of experiments and ask for space in the Municipal Law to experiment. In fact, they are taking the national representatives with them. So my question to the PvdA is whether it is going to propose today to amend the Municipal Law in such a way that municipalities that want to do so can experiment with deliberative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u56	I would like to await the Minister's answer, but I am indeed in the process of a motion calling for the good ideas from the municipalities. So it's not about blueprints from above. Let us indeed enable the experiments that municipalities indicate they would like to do. Let The Hague not be a barrier; let The Hague participate in proposals that come from below.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u57	Finalizing, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u58	I am very pleased with that, because I myself have a motion in preparation. However, my question was whether the PvdA also thinks that we should amend the Municipal Law, because that is one way of actually giving the local administrators who are asking for this space. So it is not just a question of looking at what is already happening. We already know that; beautiful things are happening. We need to ensure that the obstacles that local drivers are currently encountering are removed. That really is a task for the national legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u59	I couldn't agree more. I believe that the good news is that the Home Office does not need to develop anything new, because there is already a proposal for an Experiment Law, which examines what laws at local level are obstructive. In this context, municipalities were able to put forward all kinds of proposals to declare a certain law applicable at local level. I think Homeland should learn from that. Let us not be the first to say that it will again be a matter of Community law. Pick up these experiments; do so actively, because in the framework of the Experimentenwet gemeenten that is now there and has already been in consultation, something has apparently already been asked about municipalities. I have to say, however, that very little has come out of it. As far as I am concerned, therefore, municipalities are actively submitting proposals. If there are obstacles in laws, these obstacles should simply be removed as far as the PvdA is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr Bosma rightly pointed out that in the Netherlands the mayors are not elected and should be elected. Your reaction to this was that there is a D66 initiative proposal. Are you implying that the PvdA supports this initiative proposal and the election of the mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u61	In my view, there is no doubt that we will support the D66 initiative proposal. However, legislation is sometimes persistent. Even if we sometimes want to settle things quickly, we have agreed on the provisions of the Constitution in state law. The legislative proposal must be submitted again at second reading. It goes without saying, however, that we support this and that we are indeed in favour of an elected mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u62	That surprises me, because then we could have done so in the past period when the Labour Party was still in the cabinet with a Minister of the Interior? It would have been better if the Labour Party had encouraged its own minister to elect the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u63	I think the D66 Initiative Act has been there for a while. I do like the law of the state and not some sort of dictatorial regime. Mr Klein says that we should have dealt with this in the past period. Then the Minister of the Interior should have put the Constitution into effect. Surely we should not want that in a democracy? Something's been arranged in the Constitution for the mayors. A second reading of the legislative initiative will therefore be required. There is nothing Mr Klein and I can do about that. This democracy is a great asset even though sometimes it is slow and sometimes too slow as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u64	Before I give the floor to Mr Bishop, I would also like to congratulate him warmly on his birthday on behalf of all of us in this Chamber. It's a beautiful day to have a birthday and ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. I'm deeply moved. Thank you for these heartfelt wishes. Where better to celebrate your birthday than among your political friends and enemies? Mrs. Fokke is shouting all kinds of things: "Look at these experiments," "get them up," "make some room," "putting legislation aside." On the contrary, is it not in the best interest of a democratic system to achieve as much stability as possible? Do we not run the enormous risk that if we start to experiment with all kinds of experiments, the cohesion, unity and democratic structures that have been proven will be thrown aside a little carelessly? Do we not need a fundamental debate on the parliamentary system first? Is Mrs Fokke prepared to support the motion that is being prepared for the CDA and the SGP is happy to join in the debate on this parliamentary system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u66	Firstly, my heartfelt congratulations. We have chosen a fine day to deal with the budget: your birthday. Let me start with the final point. I have another reading from that state committee. I do not feel that we decided in an hour after noon that there should be a state committee. A delegation from the Lower House has even discussed this issue in detail in the Upper Chamber. I would add that there was more press in that room than members of the House of Representatives. In the end, we have come to this state committee and come to this conclusion. We can then have a lot of debates on this, but I feel that we can already put in place a whole book on the establishment of the State Commission and then the real state committee has to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u67	That's right. The establishment of the State Commission has been an adventure in itself. I'm sure that novel will be written again. However, the answer is not exactly in line with my question. My question is this. If we really think that the parliamentary system may need revision, should we not go beyond all sorts of experiments, at first having a fundamental discussion here as a Chamber about the organization of the parliamentary system and its limits and consequences before we allow all kinds of experiments? Isn't Mrs Fokke afraid that allowing experiments too generous is disintegrating into the solidity of the parliamentary system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u68	I think you should do one thing and not leave the other. I think it is very good that there is a state committee that is going to think about this very carefully. I think it was mainly about parliamentary democracy. However, the local government makes a call. It would like to involve citizens more in the decision-making process. It's not about one call. This is worn very widely. Then you can sit back and wait until the state committee is ready. It'll take a lot of years to get over that. You can also turn around and listen to the local authorities' request to do something about it. You should just give municipalities the opportunity to submit proposals for experiments. I'm not so hesitant about that. They're drivers, aren't they? Those are people's representatives, aren't they? Do we trust the local drivers or not? Now, please, just let that local driver submit a proposal for an experiment. Let us stop by definition coming up with a blueprint from above. Let us let the state committee do its job. Let us get some good ideas from local government and see where there may be legal obstacles. Let's just do that! What is Mr Bishop afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u69	The CDA also asks Mrs Fokke: what is she afraid of now? More press was present in the Upper House; there were a number of Second and Upper Chamber members. We organise round tables, hearings, and I know some minor things. The majority of the parties in the House of Representatives, which does not apply to the number of votes, are in favour of holding a debate on the setting up and commission of the State Committee, but now the coalition is going to have all the heels in the sand. What are you afraid of, Mrs. Fokke?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u70	The good news is I'm not that scared. That's gonna save you a lot. I am just saying that this discussion has already been held in detail. If I add up everything that has already been said about this, I can see that there is a book in the closet about this. In the end, you have to say: this is what it looks like and with this mission we put the State Commission to work. Mr Amhaouch wants to talk about this in detail, but I think we have already discussed it in sufficient detail. I agree with the mandate given to the State Commission. That has nothing to do with fear. You can go along with the slowness of The Hague and take a long time about decision-making, but you can also say that it is clear and let the state committee get to work. That's what the Labour Party thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u71	I keep hearing Mrs Fokke say 'I' and 'it is clear to me', but the majority of the parties in this Chamber ask the coalition to take her seriously and proposes to have a discussion on this serious subject. Even if Mrs Fokke says in her words that she has enough information, she should at least respect what the Chamber asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u72	In my opinion, parties are entitled to have their own opinions. The Labour Party is indeed not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u73	That's insane. There is an appeal to the Chamber to agree to all kinds of experiments, but if we want to talk about them, we cannot. What kind of experiments are those gonna be? I have already mentioned a few examples from local democracy: officials go on lucky courses, aldermen have to decide whether the municipality of the future is a municipality of Ikhoven or of Mergendam, council members are told that "decisions happen to us." We also know the examples of the mayors who have a world parliament led by Mayor Van Aartsen of The Hague. They travel around the world to have a big chat, to lobby and especially to eat and drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u74	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u75	What kind of projects are these going to be? Will that be the municipality of the future, the local democracy agenda, the local city agenda? All these management, consultancy and advisory initiatives: is that what Mrs. Fokke has in mind with these experiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u76	In Estonia, Mr Van Raak, we were reminded of you. There, I believe, was a minister of happiness or something. Then we thought: will we table a motion specifically for Mr Van Raak when dealing with the internal affairs budget? I'm sure I'll tell you that this motion won't be made today. I will answer your question anyway. Do you trust your own local drivers or not? You give very interesting examples. I don't think many of these examples are, but that's what local government is about. The local government finally decides that. I can find a lot of that. I also think very much that your SP is in the coalition in Maastricht and does not want to spend the money for children in poverty on them but simply pour it freely into the general budget. I like that a lot. But I also think that local government is the move. The local representatives are about their choices. If The Hague doesn't like it, it can't always be that The Hague decides what the local government should do. As far as I'm concerned, trust the local government. Why don't you put it on the bottom of those initiatives? Perhaps I am more positive than you about the initiatives that local government comes up with. If you really want to do that, I know you differently, then you can also mention very nice initiatives from the local government. I have already heard this speech in an earlier general discussion. But there are also many other examples. Perhaps we should mention them instead of always the examples that you yourself say: yes, should it be? But it's not up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u77	Finalizing, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u78	The problem lies precisely in the fact that local directors, local council members and local officials have been given a variety of tasks by this government in the context of decentralisation, but that these tasks are largely carried out at above-regional level. An alderman hardly has anything to say about that, let alone the council members. In order to carry out these tasks, an army of expensive external consultants, consultants and similar types have been hired again. Those same types are going to fill their pockets with all kinds of experiments. That is a problem that the government, this coalition, has poured out on local democracy. And then Mrs Fokke of the PvdA asks local democracy to solve that. So that's not good. That is why I am much more in favour of the proposal to have a fundamental debate here on local government, on the basis of the state committee, and to see where the real pain is and where the responsibility of the government and of the Labour Party lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u79	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u80	It is very unfortunate that Mr Van Raak does not appreciate what is happening in the local administration. It is also a pity that he gives the same example every time. If you tell yourself a hundred times that an alderman under a common arrangement isn't about anything, you're stuck in that pattern and you don't think it's about anything. I've worked in the local government for years. A common arrangement is not new. Let us not deceive ourselves that since the decentralisations we suddenly have regional partnerships. We've had it for a long time. Municipalities opted for regional cooperation because it was just better for the budget. The good news is, you're still going over it. If very strange decisions are taken in a common arrangement, you can appeal to your own alderman in the city council. Shall we make a bet that will just change the policy? Mr Van Raak is very negative in that. He apparently likes to think from The Hague how things should be in the local government. I just want to put the trust where it's supposed to be: with the local government. I am very pleased that, in the context of decentralisation, there are facilities where they should be: close to the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr Van Raak is right on one point, namely that common arrangements are not very democratic. I think it is a very good thing that more and more powers are transferred to the municipalities. I agree with Mrs Fokke that they should be organised closer to the people. But these common arrangements must of course also be implemented democratically. How does the PvdA view this? Can this be experimented with, for example, with the way in which you choose the day-to-day administration or the general administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u82	I think the good news is that the common regulation does not exist. That's a good thing. I think that municipalities are hard at work and that the Home Office also plays a role in this. You have very good examples in the Netherlands. For example, you have the model in the framework of the Drechtsteden. Let the municipalities learn from each other about the ideal model. If you want, you still have influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u83	So there are also experiments possible in the area of democratisation of the common regulations, which may differ on parts of each other, for example to see how to better choose the general administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u84	As far as I'm concerned, yes. It would be foolish of us to say from above that it should not be presented as such an experiment. As far as I'm concerned, the local government has a real move.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u85	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u86	I've been joining the Department of Experimentation Act municipalities for a while. It is a good start, but democratic change in the PvdA is more than involving an external chairman at a committee meeting in a municipality, as is currently proposed in the Experimentenwet. Democratic change takes the guts not to develop a blueprint from above, as we are happy to do here in this Chamber, but to ask municipalities themselves what they intend to do about it. Is the Minister prepared to pick up ideas for experiments with local democracy from the bottom up? Does he also want to keep the momentum going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u87	Do we still have an opinion on that? I just gave an example of something that came from local democracy, namely that mayors are part of a world parliament. Aartsen and other mayors of big cities are in there. They travel around the world and soup up and debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u88	Can you ask a specific question? We have already discussed this at length. I would like to ask Mrs Fokke a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u89	What does Mrs. Fokke think of that world parliament of mayors? Is that an initiative that she has a heartfelt heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u90	I think I'm talking about experiments with local democracy. In my opinion, a kind of world parliament has nothing to do with a municipality in the Netherlands. Local representatives say they want to involve citizens more in decision-making, so please let us experiment with that. Now you come up with all kinds of wild ideas, but Mr Van Raak, you can really come up with better ideas. I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u91	That's right, but this is ahead. The SP finds it insane that our mayors travel all over the world to soothe and debate things that have nothing to do with the congregation. If the PvdA agrees, we can make a proposal together and say we don't want this kind of bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u92	Apart from what I find further, if people at local level really think that this is the way to achieve what, why do you stand at the Interrupt Microphone every time in The Hague and do you want to impose it from above? Do you trust your own local drivers? I think there have been more than less since 2014. Do you trust your own local directors or do you not trust them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u93	We're not supposed to challenge each other with questions. I would like to give Mr Van Raak a very brief opportunity to respond and then ask Mrs Fokke to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u94	It's insane! It is insane hobbyism of a whole layer of new public managers who has mastered the local government in the slipstream of decentralisation, earning an enormous amount of money and coming up with the most insane ideas. To my great surprise too, they get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u95	Your point is clear. I would ask Mrs Fokke to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u96	Let's look very close, for children in poverty, and not talk very high about world mayors. Then it remains insane that the same party, Mr Van Raak's SP, chooses not to label the money but to put it in general resources. That remains insane to me, because the decentralisation was about people. That's something completely different from world mayors. Good steps have been taken at local level in response to Mrs Wolbert's motion (34300-VII, No. 34) to strengthen the position of council members. We understand that the Ministry, together with the partners in the field, is working hard to implement this. In addition, the issue of neighbourhood rights has been put on the agenda more and more firmly in recent years. For the PvdA this is mainly about learning the examples from the field, from the neighborhoods and the neighborhoods. This also applies: please don't put a blueprint in The Hague. In the context of the active residents, my colleagues Albert de Vries and Voortman have therefore tabled a motion in the budgetary treatment of Wonen and Rijksdienst in order to maintain the subsidy of the LSA (National Partnership Active Residents). This motion has been passed. You would expect the motion to be carried out. However, we are getting reports that this is not the case. If Minister Blok does not carry out this motion, he will still have to fight over it. After all, motions adopted must be carried out. However, we wonder whether the Ministry of the Interior might be prepared to provide part of the subsidy, as part of the LSA's tasks lie in the area of Home Affairs. I have just tabled an amendment on this subject with Mr Voortman (34550/VII, No. 14) tabled. I would also like to talk about involving young people in decision-making. Whoever has the youth has the future. What are we going to do to involve young people in politics early? We have ProDemos, the Student Parliament, the Model European Parliament and youth councils in municipalities, but it often seems like a patchwork. There seems to be no alignment and coordination between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Education. As far as we are concerned, one of the two ministries will be ultimately responsible and there will be an attack plan to involve young people more in politics. Is the Minister prepared to take the lead in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u97	That plan of attack sounds very interesting. When you start young, you understand fundamental rights much better and you can also apply them in your daily life, whether it is about freedom of expression, the way you want to live or the separation of Church and State. I'd like to know a little bit more about that. How exactly does Mrs. Fokke see this? In the past, I have asked and made a number of requests about this. I have not done so in the way Mrs Fokke is now describing, but I have asked for this point to be raised. So I'd like to get a little more explanation on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u98	I don't think what's happening now is right. There's a section at Education. Last, during the budget debate of the Ministry of Education, there was a discussion on whether or not the Model European Parliament could continue. It is not good that it is unclear when the Ministry of Education is dealing with it and when the Ministry of the Interior is dealing with it. We need to involve young people in politics. That shouldn't be a patch blanket. I just want this place put together. First of all, let the Ministry of the Interior deal with young people and politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u99	In fact, it might be possible for Home Affairs to have a real say in the area of fundamental rights. I am all for it, but something must also be done financially, because I cannot imagine that this could be set up in a moment. Is that space there, or does Mrs. Fokke think we can do it with the resources we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u100	I always think we should all be creative in the first place. It's not always the case that the solution is close as long as you have money. Let's think creatively what we can do. As a result of the budget debate on Education, the Secretary of State said: I will look again at what we are going to do about the Model European Parliament. Perhaps the Student Parliament and the Model European Parliament could be put together. Maybe that's very practical. Now one ministry does one and the other ministry does the other. Why, for example, does the Student Parliament fall under the Ministry of the Interior and the Model European Parliament under Education? Let's stop doing that. If we consider the education of young people to be very important, then let us get all this information. There will also be a lot of education and let us draw up a good plan of attack to involve young people in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u101	This was the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr. Chairman. Privacy protection is becoming increasingly important. Since 25 May 2016, there has been new European privacy legislation: the General Data Protection Regulation. This has consequences for all governments. Two years after adoption, i.e. 25 May 2018, all organisations in the European Union must comply with this law. For government organisations that process personal data, it is very important to prepare and take steps towards mature privacy management, not only because 2018 is less far away than it seems, but also and above all because it is already necessary to act privacy consciously. A privacy baseline that provides organisations with concrete tools for dealing with privacy is of great importance. It translates the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act into concrete, manageable standards, which clarify what organisations need to regulate in order to comply with this law. It is also necessary to use a hand-handling privacy by design when designing processes and information systems. For the PvdA, these are two important steps towards good privacy management. Of course, the Minister does not have to come up with these privacy handles himself. I do call on him to inform governments about and point out the existing privacy baseline and manual privacy by design. These are free to download via the website of the CIP, the expertise centre for information security and privacy protection of, for and by government organisations. I would like to hear a positive response from the Minister to this proposal. I'm here to talk about the open government. During the Accountability Hack held on Friday 9 September at the General Court in The Hague, 21 teams of developers, programmers and designers worked together. Those are all the good-looking headlines my colleague from the VVD mentioned before. They spent a day working on apps that better map government money flows and performance. This hackathon showed that the government itself benefits greatly from open data. Open data contributes to transparent accountability and provides insight into performance. However, it does not yet appear to be sufficiently aware of this awareness. Research by the Open State Foundation shows that very few government organisations report datasets via the Rijkssportal data.overheid.nl. This makes open data difficult to find. Currently, only 21 out of 300 municipalities report one or more datasets. The PvdA joins the call of the Open State Foundation for the Ministry of the Interior to take stock of which governments publish their data and which governments publish their WOB requests. I would like to hear from the Minister how he can respond to this call. In addition to open source, open data and open standards, the government should, if it is up to the fraction of the PvdA, arrange something else, namely the re-use of software. In this respect, I am also inspired by the vision document Government Software as Open Source by Kees Koenen and earlier pioneering work in the context of the Netherlands Open in Verbinding program to promote open source software in government country. The beautiful outcome of that vision document and the Netherlands Open in Verbinding could be "broncode.overheid.nl." There the source code of software, developed and paid out of community money, should always be available in principle. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this is not an unnecessary luxury in a knowledge-based society in which information is of strategic importance. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to have this investigated, perhaps in connection with my earlier motion to make all knowledge about open source software available through a knowledge centre. The Minister intended to report to the Chamber by mid-February. I would like him to take this question with him. In accordance with Article 9 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Netherlands is obliged to take appropriate measures to ensure access to, inter alia, information and communication technologies, including the Internet, on an equal basis with all others. With a government expressing its ambition to communicate digitally with citizens from 2017 onwards, the internet has become more than ever an essential means of accessing information and services and of learning about the content of websites and apps. The PvdA considers it unacceptable to abandon vulnerable citizens in the digital society. The government must continue to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities to experience the benefits of internet and mobile apps, to continue to participate extensively in society and to lead an independent life. The Minister has previously agreed to include in the legislative proposal on generic digital infrastructure an obligation to make the websites accessible. Apps should certainly not be forgotten. The PvdA Group is now very curious about the drafting of this law, which will include the open standards, at the request of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Chairman. It is very good that Mrs Oosenbrug also calls for attention to the vulnerable groups. A while ago, we debated the initiative law of College Taverne on electronic voting and counting tools. That was also a wish of people with disabilities. Is the PvdA prepared to call on the Minister to finish his work and take the lead to meet those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u105	This one's very interesting. What Mr Taverne proposed was something other than what the Minister was already doing. The Van Beek Committee's report, which contained some very smart minds, states that it can be done safely, but that it does have a price tag. I repeat, a price tag is a political choice. That is what we have said in connection with Mr Taverne's proposal. There was a price tag on that, but he hadn't indicated any cover. That was a reason for my group not to vote in favour of that law. Of course we also want everyone to be able to participate, but democracy has a price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u106	If we call on the PvdA to act swiftly to provide electronic tools, which are already available on the market, to support the vulnerable groups, will it be prepared to support that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u107	I always fall from one surprise to another here. I have already had a number of debates on this subject. I've told the same story over and over again. We must, of course, provide good resources, but it must be affordable. That's the choice we make here with each other. It has to be reliable, too. A splendid report has been produced on this subject. In it, the Van Beek Committee indicates how it can be done. It's fine if the market says it's possible. In the cabinet's proposal, there's something like: bring on the experiments. It must be my fault, I will not understand the question, but I think we are all doing it and we have had extensive debates about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u108	I agree wholeheartedly with most of Mrs Oosenbrug's speech, but I have the following problem: the government is going to digitize services. So also municipalities are going to do that. They are going to digitize everything, while I find that citizens often need personal contact in the form of a gentleman or a lady with whom they want to get rid of their worries, their problems. Recognition of your problems is often part of the solution, and if there is someone who thinks with you and looks with you. Part of the solution is not the ticking and the frames. Does Mrs Oostenbrug agree that part of the service may be digitised but that the starting point must always be that you can go to a gentleman or a lady who listens to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u109	Yes, and that is why I tabled a motion together with the CDA at the time when the people of Finance had thought that that blue envelope had become a symbol. The blue envelope could go under the guise: we're going to digitize everything. So that was the moment when I joined up with the CDA and said: that's very nice on paper, but in reality this doesn't work. We have also had various debates with this Minister and we have said that it will always be possible for someone to watch with you. It can't be that you're pulling out vulnerable citizens at some point. Digitalizing everything is not possible just because there is not a good coverage throughout the Netherlands, while the government itself is responsible for that as far as I am concerned. We cannot, on the one hand, tell citizens that we are only going to communicate digitally with them and, on the other hand, say that we are not having them connected to the Internet. That doesn't work, so you'll have to make sure in any form that you support the other, and you can do that in various ways. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u110	Finalizing, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u111	That's a bit of a wrap. The Minister says, on behalf of the government, that the service should be as digital as possible within a few years. It must all be digital, when I notice that the distance between local government and citizens is already so great. I am much more in favour of officials, administrators, going into the neighborhoods, going to visit residents and having meetings in the neighborhoods. People could go there to hear what they deserve, to get rid of their worries and ask where they can go with their pile of paper. I understand that from the point of view of austerity, the fact is that local drivers are getting less and less money, and there is a tendency to do it digitally in the sense of: then we can fire people and it's cheaper. But shouldn't we go another way? Isn't it supposed to be less digital? Shouldn't it be a little more human?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u112	I understand the plea of the SP, but I'm not in favour of doing one and leaving the other. So I'm for both, and I've always argued that. So make sure that digitization continues, because that also brings a lot of benefits. It's not just about firing people. In my opinion, ICT should never be the means to ensure that people are out of work, because that does not work. If you're going to digitize, you're going to make a certain move within your organization and you can clear some people. These people can then go into the neighborhood and I think this is already happening in many municipalities, precisely because more freedom is being given to set up their own local government. As a result, I see in the beautiful municipality of Lansingerland, where I live, that aldermen get on the bike to visit the residents. I see council members there talking to citizens in the village, at De Vis in Berkel and Rodenrijs, about how the Culture Fund will be filled and what will be spent on art. In my view, these are the advantages of ensuring that all citizens who are able to do so can make an appointment, for example at 10.10 a.m., to pick up the passport. Thus, between 10.00 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. there does not always need to be someone present. You can spend the rest of your time playing outdoors. I say that very disrespectfully, but I mean going outside, going to the citizens. I think we want exactly the same thing and digitalisation is part of it. You can't say we're gonna do one thing and we're gonna leave the other. No, it's got to be a match.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Chairman. The State, the government has always been a kind of extended family for us, as they call it in English, or in archaic Dutch: a large family. For things we couldn't arrange in a domestic environment, we needed a much larger group, and that eventually became the government. In the Netherlands the government was created because one had to build dikes together. In other countries, for example, the formation of armies has had much more influence on this. The State was always the level at which a people formulated their highest ambitions and it was a shield for the weak. The State was all of us, the State was what we were proud of. The State was also the roof of the barrier, the foundation of politics. In recent years, when I look around and listen to my ear, the question increasingly arises whether the State is still there to protect us and whether the State still wants to be the level at which the people formulate their highest ambitions. Or has the loyalty of the State now ended up rather one-sidedly with the progressive elite and its extension to Brussels? Unfortunately, we see that the State of the Netherlands has become an instrument in the overthrow of the Netherlands, in facilitating the influx of large groups from abroad, which have a great influence on the demography and thus on the culture and survival of our culture in the Netherlands. We also see it in many other areas. We see the police on the street are making a retreating move. There is very little blue left on the street and the police are less and less dominant. We see that the government ignores a democratic statement on the Ukraine referendum. We see that a vlogger who threatens a council member is not arrested, while a MP who says something shared by almost half of the Dutch, my group leader, happens to be in front of the fence. We see that our culture is less and less defended by that State. We can see that Dutch, our language, is already almost extinct, I exaggerate and come under pressure, let me put it this way, in higher education, where coal-Dutch is widely spoken. Blackbird's gotta break. We have a Deputy Prime Minister who is committed to this and who is engaged in a wide range of consultations to put pressure on companies, broadcasters and local authorities, so that Zwartkeit is eradicated and destroyed. A piece of our culture, which we are all proud of! A small minority of professionally injured people want to get rid of Zwartkeit. The Netherlands wants Zwartkeit, but the State is committed to destroying it. How is that possible and why is that? At the same time, Ramadan and the Sugar Festival are promoted through the government. In Amsterdam, the Labour Party even made sure that the Christian cross disappeared on the miter when Sinterklaas entered, because it also hurts all kinds of people. Azc's are supported by this minister, also in the sense that municipalities that do not receive enough asylum seekers or status holders are being cut off and threatened with everything. It is strange that all kinds of small minorities seem to be of great importance to this government. We've heard the Prime Minister say so many times: there are more of us, but why is Blackbird going to die? I find the gap and many with me. I am particularly sorry that there is this gap and that people are complaining about it. I wonder whether the Minister sees this and what he has done in recent years to ensure that the marriage that is traditional between the State and the people is restored. I am thinking, for example, of the referendum, in general, as an instrument. Luckily, there's a nice initiative bill. When I see how this minister has dealt with the Ukraine referendum, I find that rather disappointing. Not only how the cabinet dealt with the ruling, but also how this minister dealt with the practical implementation of that referendum in terms of the number of polling stations. Two weeks ago, another study showed that there is one thing that determines the arrival of the ballot box, namely the number of polling stations. That makes a lot of sense, too. If you have to leave an end, you say rather: look at it, while when it's around the corner, you come. That's one-on-one from that investigation. Too bad we saw so few polling stations at that Ukraine referendum. Colleague Van Raak just quoted a statement from that beautiful and at the same time gruesomely painful video in which a council member said: we have very few polling stations, so we have a lot of money left. Democracy costs money. If we don't want to, we shouldn't get started. There are state forms that are a lot cheaper, but we don't want them. A referendum is part of democracy. Then that must also be taken care of properly and there should simply be polling stations. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that this is simply carried out in a practical way? Is he prepared to just embrace that instrument of the referendum, which he always does a little bit bit about? Two referendums will be held today, Mr President. So this debate is well timed. Compliments for that. A referendum will be held in Rotterdam and one in Arnhem. The turnout isn't overwhelming yet. I heard half an hour ago that the turnout was 4.3%. But it is a fact that we have that instrument, and let us build it up in particular. That referendum must, of course, go far beyond what is currently proposed in the legislative initiative proposal that is now before us. We're gonna talk about that proposal after the election. That referendum must of course also be just initiating, so that we can discuss in public, for example, what is now being discussed in the back rooms of Asscher on Black Piet. That is not a law on which to base, but it is a sneaky thing to do. The initiative law on the referendum should therefore simply be extended considerably. There is shocking news about Europol. That has to do with the secret service, and that is what the Minister of the Interior is about. All kinds of information has come out at Europol. That's gonna be on TV tonight. How is that even possible? People have brought home files. There was no doubt that this included information acquired by the AIVD under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Surely it cannot be that if such information goes to Europol and is so to speak about the fence, people from Europol take that information home and that it is then public? There is another shocking case at the level of the secret services. In Germany, someone converted to Islam. Then he plotted an attack on the secret service building. How does the Minister feel about that? That's another shocking thing. Is our secret service based on that sort of thing? There is another topical issue. The Minister has delighted us with the WNT, the Law standards top incomes. There is a disc jockey of the Association of Workers Radio Amateurs, the VARA, which earns 6 tons. Now all kinds of exceptions have been made for broadcasting; I know that. But is the proclamation of images on the radio really worth 6 tons? I'd do it halfway, and maybe for less, but we're not opening that negotiation today. However, I think it is quite something. How does the Minister feel about that? It's a happy day today. Actually, I thought I'd get flowers from you, Mr. Chairman. Because I'm a ten-year MP today. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u114	Congratulations to your address.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u115	Congratulations, Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, Minister Plasterk was the prime minister I was confronted with. He was then minister in another department and I was spokesperson on another subject. But we spend a lot of hours together like this. In the beginning, the contact was a bit difficult. It is often difficult for progressive people to deal with people who think differently. But later, the ratio is normalized. I'm very happy about that. Perhaps this is one of the last debates, or at least the last major debate I may have with this Minister. I've always appreciated the contact with him very much. However, there is still one bone in my throat from all this time, namely in the form of the arrest of Gregory Nekschot. Minister Plasterk has been involved in this. At the time, it was the Ministry of Justice that was the name of Minister Hirsch Ballin. However, I read, I believe in the Elsevier, that this was discussed in the Council of Ministers. Minister Plasterk didn't say it in so many words, but he said something like: 50 years from now the archives will open and then what has been discussed there will be revealed. In that response, I think I hear a little bit that Minister Plasterk wanted to say that he regretted the way he was arrested at the time. It was about a man who drew drawings. It was just about freedom of speech. He was snatched from his bed by ten men. That's actually a huge stain on the Minister's blazing. Would it not be nice after ten years of cooperation if the Minister, in perhaps the last debate we may have, cleaned up his mess and said 'yes, it should have been different at the time'? I would like to give him the opportunity to say a few words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Chairman. Next year, ten years of The Hague politics will end, both for me and for the minister. It is also the end of four years Minister Plasterk on Home Affairs. A good time to look back and look at what has remained and what still needs to be done. Let me begin with the status of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Over the past few years, that ministry has run out. The budget is one of the smallest. The glory of the past is no longer: the glory of the Department of Internal Police and Supervision of the State of Dyken, Roads and Waters of the Batavian Republic, of the times when Thorbecke was still a minister, also called the mother department. What is this minister's personal legacy? Domestic administration has not been renewed. There's been ill-thought-out cuts on the AIVD. The service that was supposed to provide our security has been undressed and financially restored thanks to the opposition. The digital government on its feet? No, it's not. The role of the minister as coordinator of democracy, of decentralisation? The decentralisation criticism of the transition committee was not easy: a lot of hassle, municipalities and the Empire against each other, council members feeling overloaded. What about combating discrimination? Ethnic profiling not only struck Taifun, but also a police officer of Moroccan origin who was put in jail by his colleagues. Or take the lawyer, also of Moroccan origin, who recently applied as a preferred lawyer at a cell complex in Assen. The police weren't sure he was a lawyer. I'm not talking about all those people who are less known. Article 1 of the Constitution: equal treatment for all persons residing in the Netherlands. Where were you, where are you as the guardian of fundamental rights, Minister? He also has a coordinating role in this area. I'll be on the administrative agenda. The government had far-reaching plans: all municipalities would become 100,000+ municipalities, the water boards would be abolished and the administrative ruling on appeal would become more clear. All failed. Then came a void. One report after the other was prepared, but action remained out. It was like the minister wasn't daring a new adventure anymore. Is that an impression? D66 looks forward. Within the party was thought, including from the governing association, the scientific bureau and the members. I'll hand over the results to the Minister in a moment. My colleagues will also receive a copy. As far as we are concerned, the desire of the inhabitants is central. Then it must be about customization. Municipalities need more freedom for that. Making your own choices is important. Now we have three levels of government. This applies to both the large cities and the small villages and to both the Randstad and the shrinking areas. They're cast into the same mold. That pinches, but it can be solved by letting go of the permanent layers of government. From that point of view, D66 sees regions in front of them. Not forced scaling, but scaling up as a result of a natural process. The most successful reclassifications of the past few years were reclassifications that came out of the feeling that more together was the best. Give these municipalities more powers, a direct link with the Empire, more financial autonomy, so that there is a proper financial balance and sufficient financial security. And above all, give them room to organise their democracy as they wish. Whether or not a budget right at village councils, whether or not an external committee, it is best for a municipality to decide for itself. People don't care which government does what, as long as it happens properly, democratically, and as long as they're heard. Customisation helps to create more space for neighbourhood rights, do-democracy and other forms of participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u117	I am curious to see how Mrs Koşer Kaya's speech relates to the position of D66 in Amsterdam on the sub-municipalities. That is where D66 says: we abolish the elected administrative committees and replace them by the college appointed directors. That does not seem much more democratic to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u118	In my speech, I say that you should leave it to the local authorities how they can best shape it. Make that as democratic as possible, let the people talk. That debate must therefore be held in Amsterdam. We should not say from above: this is the way it should be. "One size fits all" policy, I don't believe in that. It's gotta be custom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u119	If these administrative committees, which run an area as large as a proper municipality, say: we want to keep doing our job well, we want to have teeth to stand up for our citizens, then it is very strange when it is said at city level: we prefer to decide who is to become a member of such a board. That's really weird, isn't it? There's nothing democratic about that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u120	From here I can find all kinds of things, including that it is less democratic, but the point is that it must be done at local level. They must decide how they intend to implement it. They will have to have the discussions and we should not decide here how to do that. It is therefore a question of other forms of participation. In order to achieve this, we need to democratize all these partnerships. I'd like to get a response from the Minister to our vision. I now come to the heart of my speech today, namely the role of this Minister as Minister of Fundamental Rights and thus as a linker to a society in which there are increasing contradictions, in which people are judged by their origins and in which large groups of young Dutch people with a migration outcome feel disadvantaged. What does the Prime Minister's Minister think about Muhammad fighting and saying "pleasure" to Turkish-Dutch youth? I would have liked to hear that when a man with a non-migrant background yelled at the pro-asylum protesters, I quote this, they're not my words: they have to put a dick in it. Did the Prime Minister just say "fuck off"? Does this minister take care that he is the one who must address his colleagues not to measure double standards? How does the Minister feel that his colleague from V and J wants to close the Discrimination Point Internet, while more and more complaints are coming in? Why do I rarely hear the Minister about this? Does he appeal to his colleagues not to measure double standards? Why does the National Action Programme against Discrimination pay so little? Is this perhaps because individuals who set an example in television campaigns themselves become the subject of racist riots? I hope that the next minister in this post will live up to it and take a much more explicit stand against discrimination and really stand as the watchdog of fundamental rights and that it will not be measured by double standards. We all make the future of this beautiful country. You, me and the hardworking people with many backgrounds. For my son and the many sons and daughters of this beautiful land I want to be more. These sons and daughters are the promise of the future. For them, the minister must want to be more than the nanny of the mother department. In order to help the Minister with this, I have tabled an amendment. I am releasing EUR 3 million to combat discrimination so that the Discrimination Point Internet can continue to exist and additional or accelerated measures can be taken. It always starts with a small step, but we must now build on this beautiful country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u121	When it comes to tackling double standards and discrimination, we are on the same page. We're actually going a little further. Does D66 say that the PvdA has dropped the discrimination agenda and has been watching this and having all this happen over the past four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u122	It is nice that Mr Öztürk asks me that question, but there were just two colleagues from the PvdA behind this cathedral. Why didn't Mr Öztürk ask these ladies this question? I am not going to tell the PvdA how she has operated on this file in the past and now operates when it comes to discrimination and integration. One thing stands for my party, for D66, for sure: you shouldn't measure with two sizes. Whether it's the party of Mr Öztürk, the PvdA, the VVD, the PVV or the CDA, I don't care, but you don't have to double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u123	I don't have to ask that question. We have already found that the PvdA has allowed it to happen, with this minister in the lead and Asscher in the lead. So I don't have to ask that question. My point is very clear. Can you mention any other points on which this Minister and Minister Asscher have left it? Could you also indicate what the fraction of D66 has done to deal with double standards? After all, it is also your last budgetary treatment. Let's take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u124	I would like to come up with all our motions and proposals later, so that Mr Öztürk can see what D66 has done when it comes to preventing discrimination. If Mr Öztürk is interested in this, I will do so in the second term. With regard to his question about Minister Asscher or Minister Plasterk, I would say to Mr Öztürk: you will have your deadline; I have mentioned my points and perhaps you will be able to ask the Minister that question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u125	We will see these proposals in the second term or outside this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u126	What exactly does Mrs Koşer Kaya want with this amendment? It also refers to the budget of V and J and, in fact, to the agreements with municipalities to free up money. So I wonder what exactly she wants with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u127	The Discrimination Point Internet is abolished by V and J; that doesn't seem to make much sense to me. I would therefore like to ensure that we deal with Home Affairs here, because this minister is the coordinator when it comes to combating discrimination, including internet discrimination. There is also an action plan and this needs to be properly completed. With this amendment, I have freed up funds in case the Minister needs additional support for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u128	I would like to remind Mrs Koşer Kaya that on 9 July, Mr Van Miltenburg and Mr Marcouch tabled a motion calling on the Minister to consult the UNG on making anti-discrimination provisions more accessible to citizens. That motion has been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u129	I have tabled motions of this kind myself on several occasions, as Mrs De Caluwe knows, but it is still a major problem. People can't find it. People don't get helped fast enough. It's just a string of wood, and we have to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mrs Koşer Kaya mentioned discrimination and double standards. In Amsterdam, our beautiful capital, D66 is the largest party and also the leading party within the coalition there. Islamic holidays such as Ramadan, Sacrifice and Sugar Festival are stimulated by the municipality, but Black Piet is forbidden there. Who is being discriminated against in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u131	I don't think Black Pete is banned there. Black Piet gets all kinds of colors. That's what the city's about. It has to be from the bottom and local; I'm not going to interfere. This kind of change will take place in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u132	Finalizing, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u133	Try to be honest with me. In Amsterdam, the college, in which D66 is in, even grants to an organization that goes to the schools to tell them that Black Piet is racist. The D66-college grants that. The D66 College does not give money to organizations that want to go to the schools to fight Ramadan, Sugar Festival, Sacrifice or other things of the Muslims. How, then, does Mrs Koşer Kaya find that immigrants are discriminated against? It is the Dutch who are discriminated against, because we are no longer allowed to celebrate our celebrations from D66. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u134	That's bullshit. Celebrations are celebrated in the Netherlands, also the Sinterklaas party; fortunately. I tried very hard to do that when my son was little and I hope that will always be celebrated. Furthermore, I am not talking about the question of which municipality exactly what is doing to give this discussion or the sinterklaas party a different interpretation. That is what the municipality, its inhabitants and the Dutch people are discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u135	The more Mr Bosma calls the Ramadan, the more hungry I get, but that aside. It is good to think about D66's plea in the Start vision of regional democracy and governance, but how important do you consider the trust between the Empire and the local authorities: the municipalities and the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u136	That is precisely why this is such a wonderful paper, because it also needs to be worked on. I have already said in my contribution that this confidence is not yet optimal. In fact, the Empire and the municipalities do not seem to speak or understand each other's language from time to time. Then it is all the more necessary to look from the bottom up at how to achieve the administrative change and restore confidence, especially among the inhabitants of the municipalities and provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u137	Finalizing, Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u138	In my first term, I indicated that trust between the municipalities and the Empire is falling, particularly through the redistribution of municipalities in the regions, not only in the large cities. How's D66 on the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u139	How this is designed from the bottom, we do not record it from the top, but if you want good cooperation, you must also make it financially possible and you must also give more room for making and democratically completing plans. That is all beautifully recorded in our note. I hope that we will be able to work together on this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr. Chairman. The political debate is changing. Where social discussions used to take place mainly through the newspaper, television and social media have become more important. People get more from the political process and therefore, of course, have an opinion more often. We must dare to make room for that as a political one. We need to give citizens more and more diverse resources in order to be able to exercise influence. GroenLinks therefore embraces Code Orange, an initiative of hundreds of local directors, council members and scientists, calling for a radical change in local democracy. They argue in favour of citizens' committees which can take over certain powers from the municipal council or the power of council members to give their seat to an expert citizen on a particular subject. However, such initiatives must be provided for in the Municipal Law. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is not about world meetings of mayors. The point is that people, ordinary citizens, can have more influence. So it's not about more power for local drivers either. More and more diverse resources for citizens; that is what this is about. GroenLinks is in favour of giving municipalities that want more space. It would be wonderful if municipalities could choose to act as a testing ground for democratic renewal. Nice initiatives have also been developed. For example, a number of municipalities held a citizens' summit in which people could directly talk about policy, but it is always non-binding. It's about advice. And the people who attract it are generally highly educated. Participation by lottery could therefore be a meaningful outcome. What's the Minister's status on this? Does he also see the possibility of giving more room for deliberative democracy in addition to representative democracy? I'd like to invite him to reflect on this. Is he prepared to come up with a legislative amendment to enable initiatives that go beyond voluntary consultation? I'd like to get a reaction to this. During this budget debate, GroenLinks also wants to consider the state of human rights in the Netherlands. That is the subject that is getting off the ground in the Home Affairs budget. Human rights seem to apply to foreign countries, but not so much to the Netherlands. No one is opposed to human rights, but if it becomes concrete and the money is going to cost, you will see that the cabinet is quickly dropping out. Human rights should not be weighed against one or the other; human rights should be the basis of your policy. I refer, for example, to the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. Nearly 600 critical responses were received from the General Measure of Governance, which was consulted by the government. GroenLinks agrees with the people involved that the implementation of the UN Convention should be much more robust. Does the Minister share this view? Is he going to address the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport? After all, it is a question of human rights and he is the coordinating minister for that. Also the monitoring of respect for human rights in the new care tasks of the municipalities is criticised by the College of Human Rights. The Minister states that there are a lot of human rights and that monitoring would therefore be bureaucratic and inefficient. Shouldn't a standard of human rights be respected? Take, for example, the right to respect the personal environment. Finally, discrimination. The Minister refers to his action programme and a multi-annual government campaign. But why does the cabinet come up with so few concrete measures? Why does the Minister not appeal to his colleague in the Justice Department to refuse to use stop forms against ethnic profiling? I'd like to get a reaction to this. GroenLinks hopes that the Minister will seize his last budget to take a look ahead. How do we make our democracy sustainable for the future? How do we ensure that human rights do not become a dead letter in the Netherlands? In order to find the answer to these questions, we must dare to ask uncomfortable questions and dare to show courage. Hopefully the Minister will be willing to do that to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mr. Chairman. The Home Affairs budget is ahead of us. Luckily, it doesn't have a lot of spectacular stuff in it. That's a good thing. This department works best when it's a little invisible. The Minister is a sort of oil man who does the right checks at the right moments, lubricates where necessary and talks with other governments. The Minister can rightly say that the Netherlands can be proud of the quality of its public administration and the people who work there. I'd like to join in on this. I'm passing a few points and I'm starting with the Constitution. It is striking that the very functioning of the Constitution is virtually not covered in the budget. I have put my finger on this in the past. Is that a conscious choice? Does the Minister have the idea that the current small legislative proposals will bring the Constitution back to its proper place, or should more be done? In this way, I am making the step to the State Committee a little in line with the CDA's contribution to research into the functioning of the parliamentary system. This is an initiative of the First Chamber. In doing so, the Minister shall play a facilitating role. I can't wait to see what's going on. When will the composition and exact mandate of the State Commission be known? It may be a little premature, but I would just say that we have the impression, frankly, that the committee is going to investigate whether there are any problems. We are therefore very curious whether they will be found. I am very much in favour of having a fundamental debate on the parliamentary system and all the ins and outs before we go beyond all sorts of experiments and so on. This debate could lead to a framework for the other public authorities. I think that this debate is also the responsibility of the House of Representatives. I would like to mention the issue of the security services because it is an appropriate part of this minister's remit. The security task lies largely with the Ministry of the Interior. In the near future, however, the Court will examine the proposal for a completely revised law on intelligence and security services. That is why I will leave that issue to rest here. Another important point is the Sunday Act. It is no secret that the SGP regards Sunday as a free and collective rest day as an important value. That is also what we stand for when considering the proposal to repeal the Sunday Act. In fact, I still feel that this Minister is defending the bill a little against his will. I think he should be praised in that. Many critical reactions have also come from society to the intention to abolish the Sunday Act. That is why we call on the Minister to give the backs of the rights, to be broad and simply to withdraw the proposal. Is the Minister prepared to do so? We believe that Sunday is of great importance as a collective day of rest, for rest, reflection and meeting. I do not deny that we explicitly put that forward from a biblical perspective, but it is important for many more people than just for people with Christian beliefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u142	I'm technically trained. There are companies that go on for 24 hours and there are hundreds of thousands of workers who work 24 hours and therefore also work Sundays. Does Mr Bishop think these people should have that Sunday rest too? Does he think that all those people in those companies, factories and hospitals and all those policemen and soldiers should also get Sunday rest and not work on Sundays?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u143	That is not what the law is about, but that is another point. If Mr Öztürk looks into the principles of the SGP, he will find that we do have an eye for work that is necessary or inevitable or that concerns caring for people or animals. That's not the point. It's about public events. It's about creating social peace. It is about combating the seven-day 24-hour economy as much as possible. It's about letting society breathe, as it were, one day a week. The point is that everyone in society is not constantly forced to follow forward. A moment of reflection, rest, meeting and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u144	About a moment of reflection, we can find each other. I think that Members of Parliament also need a moment of reflection from time to time. Can the people in the Netherlands decide when that moment of reflection is, on Sundays, Saturdays or Fridays? Can the people in the Netherlands of the SGP decide for themselves what choice they make? Or does the SGP want to force them to do so on Sundays?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u145	It will be clear that everyone is free to reflect on the moments when everyone is best placed to do so. The point is that, apart from a personal moment of rest, relaxation or reflection, someone needs a collective, a social moment of rest and reflection. I would like to underline that. In view of our history and our culture, the Sunday in the Netherlands is ideally suited for a social moment when collective distance is taken away from the ongoing pressure. Finally, I would like to address the issue of democratic legitimacy. In recent years, municipalities have focused on decentralisation. Municipalities have dealt with this great operation with enthusiasm and that process, which we have recently discussed, has been largely successful. The Council of State recently issued an opinion on the implications for the relations between the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities. Those relationships have become more intertwined. In view of the forthcoming cabinet formation, it is in any case important to take account of those other governments. They must have plenty of space to continue making their choices. It is also important that municipalities have financial security for more years. Over the past period, municipalities have shown that they need a good policy. We would like the Minister to work actively to ensure that there is room for local authorities, that this area is increased and that there is early clarity about the available budget and the opportunities for local taxation. The opinion of the Council of State on early reflection on non-committal regionalisation raises the question of whether we should go that way. In general, we leave the opinions of the Council of State heavy. We see here that there is a risk of a fourth layer of administration. The question is whether we should go that way. I'd like to hear the Minister's reflection on this. The Code Orange recently presented by a large number of directors and council members remains a somewhat vague idea at the moment. That idea can also grow. We're invited to that. For example, instead of a local administration, a sort of Polish country day should be held several times a year. There is talk of all kinds of things. Of course, that's a huge-interesting idea. Anyone who has studied the history of the Polish country day knows that the connotation of this is not very positive. It is still interesting, but the SGP does have the impression that it is better to strengthen the existing representative democracy than to experiment with such a well-intentioned talk club. That is how we look at it for the time being. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. It is clear that citizens do not have confidence in some politicians, but the confidence of citizens in democracy, in the democratic system and in the democratic rule of law is very high in the Netherlands. Let's cherish that. Let's be careful about that. Much is already being done with the current opportunities for participation and citizen involvement. That's fine. Above all, we need to intensify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u146	I remind you of your time, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u147	I come to a conclusion, Mr President. On the contrary, a good representative of the people ensures that he engages in the debate with that knowledge in his pocket. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to the ideas presented under the name Code Orange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mr. Chairman. DENK believes it is important for citizens to be able to participate, participate and participate. In that line I briefly insert a number of DENK points. We only have three minutes, unfortunately. I'd like to get a response on all those points from the Minister. Point one: DENK wants young people to be able to participate in our democratic process. That's why DENK wants young people from 16 years of age to have the right to vote. Point two: DENK wants citizens to be able to participate. There are so many good ideas in society. DENK is therefore for an open ministry. Citizens can bring ideas to that open ministry. The open ministry bundles the ideas and officially brings them to the other ministries. Point three: DENK is against the lane carousel. DENK wants citizens to take part in the decision on appointments of expensive government staff. The appointment must be carried more broadly than in politics alone. Politicians shouldn't play each other nice jobs, because that doesn't give other candidates a fair chance. In England they have a good example of that. Point four: DENK considers it important for the government to act quickly. If citizens submit an objection, the treatment should not take six weeks plus six weeks. DENK wants the deadline to go to four weeks plus four weeks. Point five: in the budget, we always talk about money, money. However, people also want to be happy. Money doesn't always make it happy. Should we not, therefore, also measure gross national happiness in the budget? For example, we can see annually whether the Netherlands becomes happier or less happy. Since this is the last budget of this minister, who is now looking at the other side, I ask him a personal question. Is he even happy himself? What, on his old day, is his advice to make the Netherlands happier? I will conclude with a few comments on Dutch citizenship. There are people in the Netherlands, including in this parliament, who find themselves more Dutch than anyone else. They say: The Netherlands is ours; the Netherlands is our country. With this they want to make the Netherlands a class society. They want to create second-class citizens. In the country of DENK, however, everyone is equal. In the country of DENK, everyone is a first-class citizen. DENK therefore asks the minister what he will do to deal with the people who think they are more, that they are more Dutch, that they have more rights. What will he do to ensure that these people adapt to our Dutch core values? It says in the Constitution that we are all equal and equal, isn't it? Is this Minister going to fight for the Constitution and for this equality? Finally, there are parties that are funded from abroad to express their own "volop-first-story" and slogans here. We will table a motion tonight to address the foreign funding of political parties. The PVV leaves millions of public funding aside, because it is financed from outside in order to be able to do those rough, hard and where necessary weird expressions. Foreign powers should not affect the political parties here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u149	That was the end of your speech? Otherwise, I'd like to point out your time. Mr Bosma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u150	That's funny. We're funded from abroad. Could you please show us some names, back numbers, giro numbers and giro transcripts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u151	There's been plenty of media coverage. Mr Bosma knows all about that. There are organizations in America. I can send him all that information. He knows exactly what I'm talking about, and it should be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u152	For the Acts, I note that you spoke on behalf of the Kuzu/Öztürk Group. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr. Chairman. I'm putting forward three points. I'll start with a quick look back. Remember, in the coalition agreement there was a plan for the modernisation of the administrative organisation. This is also beautiful in the report "Control in coherence. The administrative organisation in the Netherlands." I can only conclude that that part of the coalition agreement has resulted in a major failure. A case of: they did a puddle and everything remained as it was. As a member of the Free-Spirited Party, I am in favour of a thorough approach whereby we abolish the provincial government as a layer of administration. Recently, we have had many reclassifications with a view to decentralisation. Co-operation between municipalities is also growing. When municipalities become larger, what function and necessity do provinces still have? In this context, I would like to highlight the importance of local democracy. The government also steers this with the Agenda Local Democracy programme. Trusting in municipalities, trusting in municipal authorities, trusting in municipal councils: that is the starting point as far as we are concerned. Decentralizing means letting go in confidence. Municipalities are able to implement such a policy change properly. It is important, however, that the city council can perform its function properly as a democratically elected supervisor of the administration. Municipal councils are formed by local divisions of national parties, but also by many local political parties. Local parties form a substantial part of the 390 municipal councils: they have 33% of the seats. 29% of voters voted on local parties in local elections. However, these local parties need to be able to make a financial effort alone, while their colleagues from the local departments of the national parties have access to funding, through the Finance Act political parties. A little support is arranged through Council Member.Now, but all organisations get it. It's a half-baked solution that, in my view, is failing local parties. From the principle of equality and the promotion of transparency, we are committed to ensuring that local parties can also make use of the Political Parties Financing Act. Another worrying trend is that political parties are turning their candidates' thumbs before they are even elected. They are increasingly asking their candidates to sign a declaration in which the candidate promises to turn in his seat when he leaves the group early. However, this is not new. Some parties, such as the CDA and the SP, have been using such strangle contracts for years. The PvdA also lets the candidates sign an honor code; an honor code, haha, while the past period three PvdA's have left. In his answer to questions on this subject, the Minister confirmed what we all know: such statements are contrary to our Constitution and to the Election Act and are not legally enforceable at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u154	Let me remind you of the time, Mr Klein. You are going over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u155	I got seven minutes, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u156	You said you wanted to use that for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u157	Oh, I'll switch a little. I'm flexible; that's why I'm liberal. The Election Act does not impose any sanction for leaving your group without giving up your parliamentary membership. The seat belongs to an individual MP and not to the political group. That's clip-and-ready. According to the Free Party, such a statement is a worthless document; worthless, but unfortunately not meaningless. It is a means of intimidation to draw up candidates in advance in the party member. It's a blackmail tool, because if the statement isn't signed, the candidate won't be on the list of candidates. Besides, it's just electoral deception. The electorate believes that he is voting for a candidate who, as a result of signing such a declaration, is bound to that party and that it is all settled. However, nothing is less true. The voter will be surprised if he finds out that such an explanation is worthless. The Minister therefore has a responsibility in this respect and should in his function guarantee the purity, correctness and clarity of the electoral process. What is the Minister going to do to give substance and substance to this task and to shed light on these statements? How is he going to inform candidates about their position, their rights as candidates and the fundamental principles of passive voting, as enshrined in our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u158	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-4.u159	The continuation of this debate will take place this evening, around 8.15 p.m., according to the current agenda. I'm suspending for lunch.
