ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday we were shocked by a train accident in which eighteen were injured. First of all, I would like to congratulate the victims of the train, the engineer, the staff of Arriva and the driver of the milk truck of FrieslandCampina. Here's what I'm gonna do. You'll just be called Willem Stavenga or Sieta Stavenga and live near where the accident happened. You're working as a farmer on Friday, you walk into your stable and one hears a sound like a fighter jet is going through the noise barrier. You know right away: it's hitting the transition on the Voslaan again. You go to the train with your wife and find that the driver of the car and the driver are happy to be alive and that there are injured on the train. You're getting these people off the train. Then you see later on the day on television a press conference in which the director of ProRail indicates that in this case both money and ambition are not the problem, but that it is the procedure to buy land. You're told that as a neighborhood neighbor, you're actually getting a little bit black-and-white. I'd like the cabinet's opinion on this press conference. I myself would like the director of ProRail to apologize to these people. You will only be confronted with such an image and that same day the blackbird will be put on the spot. Gerjon Kazemier died in the same place on 14 October 2014. In April of the previous year there was also a deadly victim there. On 15 October I asked questions with my colleagues in Groningen Henk Nijboer and Tjeerd van Dekken Chamber. The first and most important question I have to the cabinet is: what has actually been done to address the situation after 14 October?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by joining Mr Hoogland and wishing strength to those involved in the accident, in whatever capacity, and still having the consequences. I hope these people recover quickly. What has happened since the accidents at the Voslaan in 2014? Voslaan is one of the more than 100 unprotected transitions that still exist in the Netherlands, at least where you can come from the public road. Since 2015, we have been working on the NABO programme to ensure that safety is improved in all these areas. In this case, the solution had been sought in the conclusion of this transition and instead the construction of a road through the country of a farmer. That is the farmer Mr Hoogland is talking about. I don't have the impression it was that man's fault. In fact, the information I have received indicates that all parties want and can sit at the table, and that either a rental contract for that land can be concluded as soon as possible, so that one can go around that transition to a secure transition, or a purchase agreement can be concluded, in order to find a definitive solution. Is that what I'm judging about the press conference? I haven't seen it myself, but I think it's important that the cabinet doesn't blame one of the parties, and certainly not this farmer. The most important thing is that since 2015 there has been an integral plan for the NABOs in general and more specifically for the seventeen transitions in Winsum, where the accident happened and where it also went wrong in 2014. That has taken a long time; I fully agree with the speaker. It is crucial that now, as soon as possible, and at least before the end of the year, it is clear what solution is being chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	That brings me to the second point. 2,000 signatures were picked up by people from Winsum. That happened after two people died in one year. At that time there was also a call for temporary measures for that place, where it went wrong every time and where everyone holds their heart when it is foggy or when the children cycle to school, although these measures will not solve the situation instantly. Why can these measures now, but not before? Indeed, a study was launched in November 2014. We are now living in November 2016. Haste rush is rarely good, but waiting two years when everyone knew this situation was dangerous is a long time. That is why we are asking ourselves the following question. In large projects we see that the government waltzes over people when it has to be expropriated and that it can be purchased very quickly. Why couldn't that happen here in two years? That's looking back. On April 10th, the residents found it was too slow. Then I wonder: is it perhaps better to have opponents if you want to solve problems quickly? Everyone wants this, and maybe that's the problem. Is that analysis correct or is it different? I'm still going into the temporary measures. There's gonna be extra plates now. Winsum's alderman said in 2015: I can't get over it, because it's ProRail's. To what extent is the Minister willing to address the municipality of Winsum? It could also do something in the environment: raising thresholds, taking measures and doing something in the infrastructure. Even though they may not get along formally, there are many other things to come up with that can be done. Finally. In 2015, funding was promised by the government and it was written to the Chamber that agreements would be made in the short term. Now we're a year away and the agreements have been made. But then paper is patient, because how is it that these agreements are not being implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is quite right that Mr Hoogland should mention this. I also understand very well the displeasure of the inhabitants of Groningen. They have argued for an AHOB, an automatic halfway tree. That's one of those things with a bell, a flashing light and a barrier. It takes a while to get there, but at least it offers more security than an unattended transition. As far as I am concerned, therefore, before the end of the year there will be either another way of opening up or a solution by buying. Otherwise, the preparation has to start before placing such a barrier, even if it takes some time. We need to make it clear that something is happening. The second point to which Mr Hoogland refers is: where is the responsibility? It is in fact in the municipality as well as in ProRail. ProRail is responsible for the transition itself and the rails. The municipality is responsible for the road that passes the railway there. The municipality can do something. As a result of what happened, matrix boards have been placed to better warn. In the letter sent by the Secretary of State before the end of the year, therefore, in December, I will also have it included whether it is not a matter of taking such measures in the other 109 unguarded transitions following what has happened. Maybe municipalities can do more. Sometimes it's about thresholds, sometimes it's about signage. Sometimes signs are not clearly visible due to vegetation. As a result of what happened last Friday, we are going to look at what additional preventive measures are possible. Those are never the real solutions, because that is what the integrated programme is for to make all these transitions safe. In the meantime, we'll see what else can be done. The Chamber will hear more about this before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	You have five seconds left, Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	Then I have one more question: when will the crossing be secured in Winsum? When can people count on being able to cross safely?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	Before the end of the year, there will be clarity for Winsum once the lease has been signed. I understand that both the owner of the land, the tenant or... the buyer, ProRail, if the municipality are willing to do so. They'll be around the table as soon as possible. Once the lease is completed, you'll have a different route within three months. Then the Voslaan transition, which has now become infamous to residents, administrators and all of us, can close.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	I now give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	I can also agree with the fact that everyone was alarmed by last Friday's accident. Unfortunately, we have already had to regret a number of fatal accidents in recent years. We are lucky that this time this is not the case, but there is enormous damage. The whole village is shocked, not least the people who live behind this railway crossing. Two years ago, we released 10 million to tackle this kind of railroad. It takes a long time for this railroad to be dealt with. Maybe we should've added 18 dead people. Is anything actually gonna happen this week? This week, the trains are going to run again. Measures must also be taken in the short term. For example, signs or matrix boards must be placed. I just heard the Minister say that we can look forward to it at the end of this year, but I think it has to be done much earlier, namely this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	Research is being carried out by the ILT (Inspection Environment and Transport), ProRail and Arriva on exactly how it could have gone wrong with this milk truck that collided with the train last Friday. The precise facts are therefore out of date. In the meantime, these matrix boards have been set up and a solution will have to be clarified before the end of the year. No one has to wait. If one can agree next week, we can start preparing for other openings immediately afterwards, i.e. with a different route via a secure transition. We're not gonna let time pass. All interested parties are well aware that a solution must be found very quickly for Winsum and the local residents.
