ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The rising sea level, changes in temperatures, increases in extreme weather, such as structural drought or excessive rainfall and floods, lead people to drift, seek safety, food and drinking water, liveable places and a better life. This migration and this search can lead to conflicts, because the arrival of new people is also putting pressure on existing facilities. That is what we are seeing now, for example, in the Middle East. This analysis made the Commander of the Armed Forces yesterday. In his wake, the Foreign Minister followed. D66 is pleased that this awareness is now with the government. At least, I assume the Secretary of Defense shares this analysis. If so, then I must say that this awareness is well overdue, because the Pentagon in the United States has been warning us of the consequences of climate change for years. It also has a separate strategy for this for more than two years, the Climate Change Adaptation Roadmap. In the Netherlands, the think tanks have already studied this. Joris Voorhoeve pointed that out in his book Nine plagues at once. However, in the Dutch defence doctrine of 128 pages, the problem of climate change is only mentioned side by side a few times. My question to the Minister today is therefore what she will do after these wise words from her Commander of the Armed Forces. Will there be a climate strategy from Defence and when will the Dutch defence doctrine be adapted to that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Belhaj for the questions she has put. Whether the awareness is there now... that awareness has been around for a while. There is rightly reference to the Pentagon's Climate Change Adaptation Roadmap, but it is not for nothing that we talk about it regularly at European level and even at NATO level. If groups of people get adrift, due to any circumstances, it can lead to chaos and conflict. In fact, climate change is seen, especially when it comes with social, economic and political factors, as a threat multiplier. That is also the way in which we are approaching this at the moment. It goes without saying that Defence is about the deployment of the Dutch armed forces, that we are dealing with the major analyses and international and national security strategies with other departments, and that the phenomenon of climate change does indeed play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank the Minister for the answer, although I almost hoped that the answer would be something other than the statement that this minister and this cabinet also recognise climate change. My specific question to this Minister is also whether there is an enormous opportunity to combine this. Then you don't just have to argue that you have to guarantee peace, but that you may be able to deal with it in a strategic way. We all recognise the seriousness of climate change and its consequences, as does the Minister. The Commander of the Armed Forces thus establishes a link between security and climate. As far as D66 is concerned, we simply need to take action now. Perhaps we cannot do so alone and we need our international partners to do so. That is why I have a few additional questions for the Minister. To what extent does it see the possibility of taking action alongside recognition? The new European Security Strategy, the EU Global Strategy, was recently presented. It establishes the link between security and climate. But a comprehensive strategy also lacks there, while climate change leads to migration flows and conflicts. We see that every day. It is therefore high time we recognised the cause of these problems, the conflicts and the chaos. Will the Minister also discuss the issue of climate change with its European partners? Is it prepared to put this on the agenda at the next European Defence Council? Is it prepared to make an effort to find a European response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'm a little surprised about this question. I have often said in debates with the Chamber that the Minister of Defence sometimes gets a lot of hats, whether it is finance, EZ, V and J, or as in this case I and M. The cabinet speaks with one mouth. Mr Dijksma is quite busy with all the international commitments made in the context of climate change and its response. That's how every department has its part to play. Of course, in the case of the Defense Department, that's about a lot of angles. For example, this is as small a logistical footprint as possible. In that respect, the Defense Department is doing its part. It is also important that, in cooperation with, for example, V and J and Foreign Affairs, we look closely at the cause of conflicts and how we could do more about prevention. But it's not just a matter of defense. It is a cooperation of different departments and therefore within the government. This is also the case at European level and even within NATO. Quite frankly, I have the feeling that Mrs Belhaj is now presenting some sort of Columbus egg here, whereas this is a long time ago daily practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	I don't want to have a discussion about eggs here. I regret that the Minister of Defence refers to the fact that we have a Secretary of State dealing with climate and that there are agreements. This is simply an offer to the Minister to say in response to the statements of the Commander of the Armed Forces: yes, I am going to be that Minister of Defence who is also actively considering the extent to which climate can be a solution to problems and whether Defence is needed to prevent problems. I can't hear the Minister say that. I'm sorry about that. For D66 it is a very relevant theme. We look forward to further political debates to ensure that this is an important item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'd like to respond to that. Mrs. Belhaj really does hear it wrong. I have said that it is already the practice. It's standing policy. In other words, what Mrs Belhaj is proposing is already being embraced. Why else would the Commander of the Armed Forces speak of it at all? He asks for extra attention for climate change as a threat multiplier. But again: it's standing policy, it's daily practice. So Mrs Belhaj is asking for something that is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	When I read the report on the statements of the Commander of the Armed Forces, I didn't know whether to be happy or a little sad about it. Of course, it is very nice that even the CDS recognises that climate issues are a very big and fundamental problem and threaten world peace, but I think climate realists like GroenLinks and many others said that 25 years ago. So he's pretty late, huh? But that being said, it is the question of what the consequences of this are. The Minister says very easily on Mrs Belhaj's questions that it is standing policy. Could the Minister reconsider the possibility of taking the climate aspect as one of the objectives of the whole policy on the missions we are doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	The origins of conflicts show that the main focus is on trying to prevent conflicts. Where climate change is a threat multiplier, the international community, and of course not only the Netherlands, will consider what can be done to prevent and respond to this change as much as possible. We've been talking about the logistics footprint of the Defense Department. It is well known that Defence has been pursuing active policies in this area for some time to ensure that we can operate as effectively as possible. This has been warmly welcomed by GroenLinks and I assume that this is still the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Grashoff, your second supplementary question on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	When the Minister of Defence talks about this issue, of course, she also comes in areas of her colleagues, especially Minister Ploumen. This does not alter the fact that we can appeal to the Secretary of Defense for the integrity of the mission policy. It would be an incredible step forward if we were to declare the resolution of the climate issue much more consistently to be an integrated part of a mission and ensure that the Netherlands also makes its contribution. I do not entirely happen to mention the MINUSMA mission in Mali. Is the Secretary of Defense prepared to deal with this together with Mr Ploumen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Ploumen is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	Sure. The design of military operations and deployment is always part of an integrated approach. That is why the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I are working closely together. That is why a steering committee on military operations meets every week at official level, precisely in order to colour this integrated approach as much as possible. Where, as part of a UN mission, we can contribute to, for example, tackling climate change, I am almost certain that Mr Ploumen is always taking this seriously. Mr Grashoff is asking me a little bit now. I lead that question with love. Mr Grashoff can appeal to me on the logistical footprint and emissions during a mission so that they are as small as possible. In this way, we can contribute to the best possible climate. That is what the DOD is doing, and Mr Grashoff can appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	To be honest, I was surprised at the interview, because I have never heard the Minister of Defence say so firmly that all the causes of conflicts lie in the climate. The Minister never said that in debates. There are more and more generals giving interviews. Is this the Minister's view? Has she told a different story in recent years and isn't this the right story? How simple can it be? Climate is perhaps one of the causes, but we also have the radical ideologies that the West wants to subject to their own ideas. I don't hear the minister about that, and I don't hear the general about that either. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. What's her vision on this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	I am glad that we live in a country where the Commander of the Armed Forces is free to make a speech without imposing a gag order. Then I would have liked to hear the Chamber, because I've been through this before. For the record, climate change has been discussed before, including in debates with the Chamber. We have talked about this before. Especially in combination with a number of social, economic and political factors, this can be a fairly toxic cocktail which can indeed be the basis for all kinds of conflicts and chaos for which the Dutch armed forces are also deployed. The Commander of the Armed Forces has highlighted the fact that climate change is a thread multiplier and that we need to make sure of it. There's nothing wrong with that. I also think it is important that we continue to hold this discussion together in the context of prevention in the future.
