ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The bus booths are full of them: it's March and we're allowed to make tax returns again. Well, it's an obligation you have to perform correctly and on time. But there's something else this year. There hasn't been a big advertising campaign to say that the declaration program disappears. There is a new app that is very nice for a lot of people, but there is no downloadable declaration form in it. That's really annoying, because a lot of people have been through the past few days getting kicked out of the system while they filed a report. It'll only happen to you if you're with an advisor, or with a volunteer or a family member who came by to help you with the tax return. How is that possible? In response to my parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State replied that it was not due to the queues. Then what was it? A few hundred people have reported this to me. I understand that the Tax Administration has recently placed a cookie on the computers so that you no longer lose data from the online declaration, and that your DigiD will be stored. Is that right? We were surprised, because we were under the assumption that the blue envelope would be abolished. Although the CDA voted against it, there was a majority in favour. Now I heard a spokesperson from the Tax Administration at Kassa on Saturday saying that for people who really can't get help and who can't get help in their surroundings, the blue envelope will continue to exist for the time being. Then the hostess said that the blue envelope stays. My question is how long until that happens. The uncertainty has not diminished. If you get a paper copy now, because you don't have a computer and no help around you, how long will that take? It takes until the next phase, it was said. What was meant by this, however, remained cloaked in mists. So perhaps the Secretary of State can reassure these people that that blue envelope will at least last for quite some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The report campaign is going very fast this year. The site is well on its way. We've been on the road for two weeks now, two weeks and a few hours, and we're already in a third. So we've got 2.7 million returns in there. That's half a million more than in the same period last year. Nothing has really fallen out and there haven't been any malfunctions. There have been moments of reduced capacity due to security updates. We've got a whole check room up there to see if there's any security threats. This has had to do a security update several times in between and then the capacity of the Tax Service site is slightly reduced. That's why we've been nominally increasing it to about 42,000 people at the same time this year, but we've also seen the site run at 55,000. The capacity is therefore quite higher than last year. It's happened a number of times, especially during updates, that people have been thrown out. In fact, that should not be possible, but we have seen it, at least we have seen the same reports as Mr Omtzigt. What we need is for people not only to report this, but also to leave a social security number with the Tax Office, because no complaints have been received so far. Then we can see what's going on. It seems to be a relatively limited number of cases, but we need to learn them even more. Easytax is the programme referred to by Mr Omtzigt, which has indeed disappeared. That's an outdated system. We don't have a report disk anymore, either. At some point, you have to say goodbye to technologies. However, the abolition of Easytax has not had a decisive impact on capacity utilisation. Last year it was a backup. Last year the taxpayer understood that very well, because it was only used by about 10% of people, so really as a backup. Here's what I can say about the blue envelope. Indeed, the campaign has given some people the impression that the blue envelope would have been immediately abolished. Mr Omtzigt, too, apparently, though all the debates in the Chamber gave me the impression that he knows better. However, our blue friend will appear in our mailbox for years to come, because the program we follow works towards fewer and fewer blue envelopes, but that goes step by step. We don't have a pre-designed timetable for that. If you set deadlines in advance, people might get in trouble. It could be disappointing or a little faster. So we will only take a next step after a previous step has been successful. The University of Twente is helping us keep an eye on that. So the blue envelope is gradually coming out. However, we have said from the outset that there is also something available on paper for people without alternatives. There are certainly people who use it because they have indicated that they do not have reasonable alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	In the case of directors, too, they must reply briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	If more than 100 people e-mail me and there are more than 5,000 complaints on the site during the breakdowns, there is of course a problem with getting thrown out. I would really like to have a more detailed explanation of this. I asked if a cookie was recently placed on the computer that stores the DigiD. I want a serious answer to that, because that would give us a serious security problem. The Secretary of State is very easily dealing with the abolition of the downloadable form used very often by volunteers. If the direct report fails, you can't continue as a volunteer while you're trying to help an older one. Last year, 1 million people made use of that method of reporting. That's not a small group. Why did that happen? The fourth question to which I would like to answer is really about abolishing the blue envelope. This is done step by step according to the Secretary of State. That's exactly where the problem is. These people want to know if they can continue to use a blue envelope for the important things, such as filing charges and surcharges, in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	I have just answered that last question. It is really still possible for people who can make it clear that they have no alternatives to get it in writing. By the way, at the moment only a few different documents are involved, because most of them still come with a blue envelope. Why did we kick Easytax out? That's a system that wasn't popular last year. 10% is the actual number. If we were to keep that programme in place, we would have to recreate it every year. You have to redesign it every year for all kinds of different browsers. Then you spend a lot of money on research and development work, which we prefer to spend on service and control. That's why the program went out. Last year it was really just a backup. It's true that sometimes people, when it's very busy, have to be in traffic. It's happened a few times. Then more than 40,000 to 50,000 people want to report it at the same time. We ask those people to try again at a later date. I don't know the answer to the cookie-digid question, but I'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	The answer to the cookie-DigiD question is in writing. I'd also like to hear why people got kicked out. If that's a massive complaint, you need to figure out why. Making tax returns is not a right, it's a duty. This must therefore be properly designed by the Tax Administration. Is a form used by nearly a million people a backup? It is cheaper for the Tax Administration to update that form once than for hundreds of thousands of people to call in help in completing the tax return. That is why the government is making the wrong choice. Is she willing to reconsider that piece? Finally. The Secretary of State says, one step at a time, but that is exactly where the problem lies. I didn't accidentally ask if the government is willing to maintain the blue envelope for at least a few years for those who want it, for fees and for filing charges. It wasn't about VAT for companies or other complicated things. This is the business that everyone has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	I believe that I have given two answers to that last question which I would expect to satisfy Mr Omtzigt. That answer is: yes, it is for those people who can make it plausible that they have no alternatives, really possible, and that is what is happening to get it on paper for a while longer. There's no horizon or deadline on that. We'll have to look into that. Mr Omtzigt had another request about Easytax, but we also abolished the declaration diskette. Easytax has been. We now need to make a success of online reporting. In doing so, it is much better than with the declaration disk to improve data or help with the declaration at the very last minute. It gets better and better every year, just like with the pre-filled declaration. It is a project of years, which will mean more ease of use for taxpayers every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	Last week, the Secretary of State called on taxpayers not to report all of them on the last weekend before 1 April. Apparently, he's afraid if he doesn't, the case's gonna get stuck again. If you choose, because that's your right to report next weekend and it doesn't work because the IRS system doesn't cooperate, then it's formal after April 1, if you try at a later date. What does that mean for your message about returns and getting a preliminary hit? Are you screwed, thanks to the automation that fails, or do we get another Band-Aid on the wound?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	"Bang" is a word that is not mentioned here. I'm saying that spreading is always important. That's right by the road. If we all go down the road at the same time, we're in traffic. There is no question of the site crashing again, as Mr Van Vliet says, because it hasn't stalled during this period. I would ask Mr Van Vliet, in the interests of a good declaration period, not to use this word and not to scare people that something would get stuck. If there's traffic, sometimes you have to wait. Compared to last year, capacity continued to increase. No one is screwed, because we doubled the reporting period from last year, so it is possible to report it until 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Just a little more concrete. If you want to file a report before May 1st and if you can prove that after May 1st, let's say May 2nd, you're filing the report electronically because the system can't handle that mass, what does that mean for your message, your return, your preliminary attack, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Let's just get everyone to press charges before May 1st. If that gets any different, we're gonna think about it at the time. To have all kinds of accident scenarios ready right now, I don't feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	I note that people who cannot do it with the computer can apparently continue to receive a blue envelope for the declaration in the future. With the computer, it's the future. When will this capacity be increased in the coming months or years? Apparently, you get stuck in traffic if there are 40,000 people on it at the same time who want to meet their obligations. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have the feeling that Mrs Neppérus is asking two questions in a sentence. One is about the report. There is no obligation to make the declaration digital, and that was not im Frage either. After this year, 2% of people still choose to do so on paper, and that is allowed. It's clumsy and I wouldn't advise anyone, but it's okay. The discussion about the blue letters is about people's incoming mail. As said, if they can demonstrate that there is no other channel for them, it is still possible to receive it on paper. It is a very limited number of messages. We haven't linked a deadline to that yet. We'll see how it goes. We act according to what the results are. The University of Twente is helping us with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	I think the Secretary of State rightly stressed that the pre-filled declaration has made it much easier for many people and that this is an achievement that has been achieved over the past year. I think we can say that as a Chamber too, so I would like to repeat that. My question concerns what Mr Van Vliet also asked for. Of course, the Secretary of State is right that it is good if it is spread out, if people do not all report at the same time. Experience shows that you always see traffic congestion towards the deadline, which is now May 1st. Has the Secretary of State just given a commitment to Mr Van Vliet if he is not, will he do so to me? That if it turns out that people get stuck in traffic and miss the deadline at the last minute, then the Secretary of State will come up with a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	We come up with solutions if there are problems, but not if there are no problems yet. That is the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg. I would also like to agree with him that the VIA, the pre-filled declaration, has made it much easier for us each year. I always call it the most successful ICT project in the Empire. Every year it's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	It is good to hear that the blue envelope remains for a while and that the Secretary of State is observing long transitional periods. I was not quite satisfied with the answer to Mr Omtzigt's question about the downloadable programme. If it turns out that as many as a million people use it and that it is useful for people, why is it not introduced as an additional option, either in renewed form, at the time of the declaration? Why did you say goodbye to this option so quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	The question is, is that so fast? Last year we had them next to each other. On this basis, and also on the basis of panels and satisfaction surveys, we concluded that the programme was no longer necessary. It costs a lot of money to launch it every year, because you have a whole ICT journey next to the online declaration, where you have to set up a system for all kinds of different browsers. Frankly, the Tax Administration prefers to spend its money on services and on control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	If a million people would like to have such an option, shouldn't the cost of such an extra option and how to serve people with it be considered? Does the Secretary of State still want to reconsider this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	This was done in the evaluation of last year's reporting period. It has been established that it offers no added value, is not safer, does not solve a capacity problem and does not provide more ease of use. We have chosen to make full use of the online declaration and make it as high-quality as possible. We have chosen to continue the tradition of the pre-filled declaration with more service every year and which is better every year with the online tool, in which year after year we will see more help to get the taxpayer through his declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you.
