ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	The minister just came in. I give the floor to Mr Ronnes, who speaks on behalf of the CDA. I apologize for this awkward situation. We couldn't have foreseen that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister once again for having found time to be here. On 26 March the news appeared that many municipalities have no plan to house status holders. Municipalities do their best, but see themselves placed for heavy tasks, the end of which is not yet in sight. The cabinet has deposited the ball with the municipality to realize additional homes, but they are not yet enough off the ground, it seems. The criticism of the rental system grows by the day, because Dutch people who have been on a waiting list for a social rental house for many years have to wait even longer; now on average seven years. In addition, status holders need to stay longer in azc's, causing the system to crash. According to the agreements made, municipalities must have arranged the necessary housing before 1 July, but the report shows that 37% of the municipalities, one in three, have not yet done anything about this. The consequences are clear. The CDA has already called for more new social housing to be built and also to ensure a flow to the middle segment. Too much has been thrown over the fence to the municipalities. Is the Minister aware of the message and what is he going to do about the problem? Is there more pressure being placed on the municipalities or is the minister going to help the municipalities? He has previously indicated that he is monitoring developments well. What did this get you? Can he inform us of this outcome? In the press release we also read that municipalities that do not comply with the housing plans can expect a fine. What's that fine? That system is unknown to us. If this is right, something's really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize for having taken a break in Question Time, but sometimes I have to serve two gentlemen and the First Chamber expected me at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Two women, but okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr Ronnes asked if I could comment on RTL News' report that a third of the municipalities would not make any additional efforts to accommodate additional status holders in social housing. I did read that message, and I don't think it's that surprising. It is known that there are certainly places where there are waiting lists for social housing. I've talked to the Chamber about that before. However, there are also municipalities where there is no shortage of social housing and where they are even demolished. The question of the survey shows that two thirds of the municipalities are making additional efforts, while one third of the municipalities do not see any reason to do so. This relationship does not surprise me, and it is also in line with the information I have given to the Chamber. Mr Ronnes asks if we also help municipalities to create extra living space. We certainly do, because I agree with Mr Ronnes that it is undesirable that people who have been on a waiting list for a social rental house for a long time should have to wait unnecessarily long because of the arrival of status holders. That is why we have set up a subsidy scheme in consultation with the municipalities. We have also concluded an administrative agreement on this. The total amount of 87.5 million is available if additional living space of a sober nature is realized, i.e. living space with shared facilities, shared sanitary facilities and a shared front door. In this way the costs are reduced but there is still good living space. Mr. Ronnes asked me to monitor that. That's what we do. I believe that I have already informed the Chamber that more than 300 applications have been made in the first month in which this regulation is in force. It concerns more homes, but 300 landlords, partly commercial, partly housing corporations, have applied for this grant. Finally, Mr Ronnes asked about the fine mentioned in the press release. It is not for me to criticise the press, but the report on a fine is incorrect. The administrative agreement with the municipalities has agreed that it will be examined whether separate arrangements should be made for municipalities that are ahead of schedule and for municipalities that are behind schedule, because the forerunners make more and the lagers lower costs. The consultation with municipalities has not yet been concluded and therefore there is no fine at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	I would like to thank the Minister for answering my questions, but my concern has not been fully taken away. If you link the number of status holders that are still in the azc's at the moment, with the results that have been made available to date in the municipalities, you will see that there is a considerable backlog. Can the Minister tell us how, in his view, opportunities are being created in the shortest possible time to allow the flow to take place? The system is poaching. Azc's getting full. If that is not resolved in the short term, you will have to start looking for more azc's very soon. We think it would be better to give the status holders a good place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	I agree with Mr Ronnes that it is better to give status holders a good place so that they can also look for work and learn the language well. With the municipalities, tasks are agreed every six months. The next measurement will take place on 1 July. The national task for that moment is, by my mind, 20,000 homes. It is not actually feasible to keep up with that from week to week or from month to month. It is true that we have frequent consultations with municipalities and provinces to see where the bottlenecks are and where progress is being made. I have no reason at the moment to believe that the mandate for the first six months would be unfeasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	I now give the floor to Mr Albert de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Minister says he can't make predictions, but these kind of reports indicate that we are lagging behind and that housing isn't getting off the ground fast enough? How far has the Minister progressed in carrying out my motion asking the government to give municipalities an indicative task so that they can understand their role in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	I informed the Chamber, following Mr De Vries' motion, that we are investigating the size and composition of waiting lists. I announced that I would inform her of the outcome of that survey before the summer. Without this research, it will be impossible to see where additional efforts are needed. Summer is approaching, so it can't be long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Summer of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have two questions for the Minister. The Minister says that 1 July is the next time we know what's going on. None of us would benefit if, at that time, there were too few housing for status holders. Can the Minister explain the reasons for the lack of progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Voortman ends with a statement I cannot support. I have already said that many positive reactions were received in the first month of opening up the subsidy scheme. It is really too early to say at the end of March that a task which must be completed by 1 July is not being achieved or is already unachievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is logical that many applications should be submitted in the first months of a new scheme. If the months after that are disappointing, however, you can say thunder that we are not going to make it. This then leads to major problems for the municipalities, but especially for the people who are involved. Hence my question. I have another question: should we not also look at the way we treat the reception of asylum seekers in addition to the way in which we establish the status holders? Would it not make much more sense for us to move towards a system in which asylum seekers and status holders are received in the same municipality? This means that a status holder is housed in the municipality where he was established as an asylum seeker. In this way, we are doing more about integration and we are dragging less with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	I shall begin with Mrs Voortman's first question. It is, of course, right that there are also developments in the months after that, but those months after that should occur. We are now at the beginning of that period after that, because the scheme was opened on 1 February. The housing of asylum seekers who do not yet have a status is actually the area of Mr Dijkhoff. Mrs Voortman also knows that it is a huge task to accommodate large numbers of people in the short term well, safely and with sufficient facilities. That's a lot more complicated when you try to do that in many small locations. In addition, it is not yet clear whether people are allowed to stay because they have not yet had an assessment of the refugee status application at that stage. This is a step too fast for this Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	It's not that complicated. We are not dependent on RTL's figures. I have Googled for a while, but on the site of the VNG there is also a good overview of the goals for housing on 1 July next and of the realization so far. The last stand, I think, was on March 1st. This shows that there are structural deficits. The realization does not coincide with the goals set for 1 July. I encourage the Minister not to wait until 1 July. I understand that there will be an evaluation of the state of play. I ask him to inform the Chamber earlier than that, because if he looks at that site and is in regular contact with the VNG, he will see that there is a delay and that we really need to catch up in order to achieve the objectives by 1 July at all. Is the Minister prepared to send a letter on the state of play in consultation with the VNG? Is he willing to take a more proactive look at, for example, the construction of prefab houses with the VNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	There is an interim state of affairs. I am prepared to inform the Chamber, but then we really have to be a month further, otherwise there is little extra to report. The question about the extra effort with the VNG suggests that nothing would have happened. A board agreement has been reached. EUR 87.5 million has been made available. The scheme hasn't been open that long. It's being used. I really think it is too early to say that too little effort would have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	One of the problems with the housing of status holders is that these people have regular priority by law and are therefore the first to enter social housing. We have argued earlier that this legal priority should be removed. The Minister is working on that. How's that bill coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	I hope to be able to send that bill to the Chamber within a few weeks. It was sent to the Council of State for advice. After arrival there will be a cabinet reaction, but that does not have to take much longer.
